ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u1	Good morning. The session is open. Allow me, first of all, to greet all the people who accompany us today in the public gallery. Welcome home, as I say, again. We had been here for a long time without having guests in Parliament, and it is therefore also a joy for us to be here with all of us today. Vázquez and Rosalía López Sánchez and the new MPs Carlos Gómez Sánchez, Fr Adrián Pardo López, Fr Jesús Miguel Prado Patiño and Fr Moisés Rodríguez Pérez. Let's start with the order of the day. The preliminary point is the provision of pledges or oaths to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia of the new Members and of the new Members. We do this by complying with Article 7.1 of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I am seeking the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new Members and of the new Members in place of those who have caused casualties. The formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. The Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Corina Porro Martínez, will immediately call on the honourable Members and the honourable Members to answer the question put to her from the seat. Ladies and gentlemen, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u2	Mrs. Belén Cachafeiro Anta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u3	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u4	Mrs. Maria Begoña Freire Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u5	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u6	Don Carlos Gómez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u7	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u8	Mrs. Rosalía López Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u9	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u10	Don Adrián Pardo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u11	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u12	Don Jesús Miguel Prado Patiño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u13	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u14	Don Moisés Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u15	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u16	Thank you very much. Once... [[Applause]] Perhaps they can still have another applause because, once you have given the promise or oath, you acquire the full status of MEPs in the Galician Parliament. Welcome to Parliament. Now let's have another round of applause. [[Applause]] And now we're still on the agenda. Point one. Legislative text. Debate on the proposal for a law, a popular initiative, for the consolidation of employment for the acquisition of fixed employment for employees and public employees in law fraud in the Italian public sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u17	The Galician Union did not repudiate the criteria. And for the presentation of the proposed law by the person designated by the commission promoter, you have the word donna Andrea Estévez Barreiro for a time of 15 minutes, to whom please approach the panel of speakers. And for that, I ask the vice president first to go with her. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mari Carmen, Acting Professor at IES Ricardo Mella de Vigo. Teacher since 1987 with temporary links. Moncho, graphic reporter for Galician television, with 34 years of services rendered as temporary. Diego, ISSGA doctor in Pontevedra. 29 years interim and therefore temporary. Luís and Sonia, of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. Hired for decades only for 3 or 6 months a year, as a prize to play life against fire in defense of our country. Mónica and Araceli, workers in the Mayors' Residence of Oleiros, the Social Policy Council. Both with 15 years old, with temporary contracts. Marisa, Sergas' nurse. Currently in Cunqueiro and since 2006 with successive temporary links. The workers of the Galego Consortium of Equality and Welfare, who have been mobilising nearly a year, in response to a rate of timeliness of about 80%. I myself, ladies and gentlemen, interim professor in history since the year 2007 but I practice plastics, English and anything that throws me without title. Many of us, by the way, at the expense of our biggest, our dependents, our patients, during one of the worst health crises in our history. All of us, ultimately, support public services during cuts and under the most precarious conditions. What if instead of responding with applause we start to take seriously the conditions of true precarious work in which we are working? This is the portrait of the Italian public sector, about which his lords have responsibility. A stocked public sector of ruinous, precarious, insecure employment contracts. A German public sector of docile workers by tax, cheap, without rights. It seems, however, that we don't learn. Despite the punishment and the ridiculousness that all Spanish state administrations have been stagnating for decades before European institutions and their courts, the message remains the same. The public sector is making the indicators of timeliness and precariousness worse in the private sector itself, which is neither nor has it ever been an example. For all this, the people of Greece have decided to occupy this road today, the gallery and also the streets, concentrated in the doors of this Parliament, so that no more deaf ears to this problem can be heard. Since class unionism, which is not delivered and which represents and defends those affected by the abuse of temporality, the United Workers' Central has achieved in a record time and with hours of militant work gathering more than 10,000 signatures to be here today. Citizenship is more conscious than ever of the problem we live and that affects us all. That's why more than 10,000 signatures, following the only line that citizens can propose rules, the legislative initiative, have decided to put a voice to the drama of temporality and they are waiting for this House to show respect by taking it into consideration, for its subsequent parliamentary debate. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we have the proposal for a popular legislative initiative for the extraordinary consolidation of employment and the acquisition of fraud personnel in the service of the German autonomic public sector, as a genuine popular mandate. This legislative initiative is aware of the massive concern with respect to the right of temporary public employees to become fixed employees. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a historic opportunity for the Greek Parliament, now that it is 40 years old and after almost 40 years of the so-called State of Welfare. The different governments have not been able to shorten the evil endemic of public services: temporary and abusive recruitment. There are, gentlemen, to be critical of our history. And for more than 40 years, there's no precedent or brave decision that would put a price on this really dramatic situation. Even in recent years, and by handing out labor unions -- workers' commissions, UXT and CSIF -- they have come to deal with the affected cosmetic measures which, under the rhetoric of proposing a solution, have actually assumed genuine ERAs covered. They ended up agreeing without consensus, without dialogue, mechanisms directed solely to expel temporary workers from public employment, with all the complicities. Misleading us on the objective of the various measures, which were none other than to expel those who bother or claim their rights. That's how our resources have been squandered, in the most absurd dynamics of history: hiring, forming and then firing the abused workers. The dynamic of recruitment of the Welsh public sector was to expel the most senior workers from the system, without any kind of repair, to hire in their place other news, who would suffer again in their skin the abuse and drama of temporality. The list of excuses for not solving it is endless: budget cuts, zero replenishment rate, redeployment of squares with the only target of dismissal, the cost of sacrificing public services and their quality. This message must be clear. Abandoning temporary workers does not mean giving other citizens opportunities. On the contrary, it only implies deteriorating the public system, and allowing our public sector to drown for lack of personnel. This is the best way to open cancellations for privatization of our services. But, ladies and gentlemen, this phase has ended for the first time since the creation of the autonomous state: precarious workers and workers in the public sector took the streets with their own voice. Recently, on September 25th, this Saturday, hundreds of Greeks and Greeks traveled to Madrid for the last time to fight for our job. They're out here today. We assure you that the streets will not be abandoned as long as one of us remains in precarious conditions. Therefore, with this critical mass, it is no longer possible to continue on these roads. Today the only way out is another: fair, restorative solutions for abused public employees. Today, under the strict supervision of the European courts, the only viable solution is to give them the opportunity to acquire their own premises. In all this is the relevance of this morning's parliamentary session. In view of the process at the Congress of Members of the EBEP Reform, it is clear that governments and autonomous parliaments will be the major players in this challenge before us. You, ladies and gentlemen, will have an essential part in the management of the autonomic public sector staff. And building a fair, decent public job with rights and quality depends on the decisions you make, like today's. This initiative is the mechanism that the Statute of Self-Government allows us to promote a law when Parliament itself expresses its desire for the problems of citizens. We are convinced that the only legal, viable and just solution to put an end to the scourge of temporality is the establishment of an instrument so that abused personnel can acquire the fixture. An exceptional mechanism that repairs abuse, intended for all temporary workers, subjected to fraud and irregular recruitment, regardless of the duration of their links. We are, ladies and gentlemen, fully aware that there is no other formula, and that is our proposal. However, it is not a question of agreeing here and now the solution, with the limited time allowed for this debate. The solution to this problem will come after a lot of work, a fluid dialogue, with unions, temporary staff associations and other social organizations. There will only be a solution once all voices are heard with the necessary, ladies and gentlemen, paralysing ongoing processes. What we need to decide today in this Chamber is whether the different parliamentary groups are willing to take this initiative into consideration, whether the different parliamentary groups will remain aligned with the only democratic conduct possible when 10,000 citizens make a proposal. And there is only one coherent position: that this House should take the inescapable decision to give Parliament due process to this proposal, that is to say, submit it to debate. We are not able to conceive that with this historic opportunity on the table, after a full and laborious exercise of participatory democracy, it is said that it does not interest the problem of precarious workers in the public sector, or that it is not the time. If the solution doesn't go through this Parliament, make it clear, gentlemen, that the streets won't shut up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Andrea Estévez Barreiro. You can follow the debate on the scene next to the U.S.U. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, it's a wonderful thing to be able to see all the Members in their seats again and it's a little bit more tangible than we finally started to get out of this pandemic. I wanted to start my intervention today by showing my solidarity with all those girls who were a few months ago, whose intimacy was violated at Maruxaine parties, and I want to show my support and I mean here that yesterday's failure and judgment is a clear example that the gender perspective is necessary and must be introduced into access to the judicial career. [[Applause]] And starting with, I want to start by saying that from the Socialist Group we are fully aware of the problem in our country regarding the timeliness of the public sector. Personally, I have lived as a conciliator and have since the beginning of this mandate holding meetings with different unions, associations of workers and workers, of many and different areas, but all of them and they are affected by the same problem: temporality, abuse by the Administration. So we are also fully aware that an urgent solution is needed. If we talk about temporality, a minimum acceptable temporality, even recommended, to ensure the provision of public services, but the reality is that the situation we are currently living in is not sustainable. No administration is linked to this problem of temporality. We'd be lying if we said otherwise, but while the General Administration of the State is at a time rate of 24.3%, far from 8%, as recommended earlier, which recommends the European Union, Galicia stands at 30%, with some organisms like Sergas at 40%, or the Galeco Consortium of Wellness at 90%. It's a very negative fact, it's a fact that we can't disengage from the political management of the People's Party Government in the Union, because the basic regulations are the same for the whole territory. It's a way of acting very characteristic of the People's Party's governments. We saw it because it was not the People's Party governments who generated this situation, but those who increased this situation during the year 2011-2018, who used, among other formulas to get out of the financial crisis, hard cuts in the state's general budget, and this assumed an insufficient or directly null replacement rate. I remember that between 2012 and 2015 it was 0%. And that, what did it cause? Because it led to the need to hire temporary staff to ensure the provision of services. In addition, in these years, it has suffered from serious lack of strategic planning in public employment management, and I remember the stabilization processes of 2017 and 2018, which were too slow and caused numerous new interim scholarships. Only 26 % were covered by the squares authorised in OPE 2017-2018. So these puppies come in. But, as I said at the outset, it would be hypocritical to say that this problem is focused only on our country, and it is not a global problem, and it affects not only the Government of the State but also the different governments of the European Union. And this led, in the European Union, to speak to the European Union's Court of Justice, in a judgment which he made one before and one after this problem. And I refer to the judgement of March 19, 2020. The Socialist Government of Spain, in particular the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service, understood this problem as a priority and carried out hard work throughout this year to achieve a solution. A solution to the highest consensus and dialogue, both in the course of the sectoral conference and in the Bureau of Public Administration Negotiation, dialogue between the autonomous communities and the GEF, and also with the main trade unions. And the fruit of this consensus and parliamentary debate was approved by Royal Decree Law 14/2021, which entered into force on 8 July this year. A rule that changes EBEP and establishes changes of very quiet and very important to public employees, how to strengthen and limit the temporary condition by delimiting tax stations where they can be named, and establishing the minimum necessary time of duration, which may not exceed three years, far from what is happening at present, attributing greater speed to the personnel selection processes for the Administration and detailing the principles that must govern these processes or establishing mechanisms for controlling temporality by administrations and a regime of liability in the event of non-compliance. This royal decree was a great step, but we all agree that it was not the solution. And the solution has to come out of the hands of a new legislation, a new law that is currently processing the Congress of Deputies, in the process of tabling amendments, which will end tomorrow. It is a brave law, which has not dared to promulgate previous governments and which aims to provide a solution to the problem of temporality in public administration, within the framework of legality, dialogue and agreement. And looking for real solutions, real and lasting solutions in time, with measures that prevent this situation from reproducing. Ladies and gentlemen, the reception pandemic is giving us many lessons as a society and a very important one is that public services are essential for our survival. That's what we've always understood from the Socialist Party, and that's why it's part of our political essence to strengthen public services. The Government of Sánchez also sees this reform as a priority and therefore, within the plan of resilience, it introduces it so that it can take a leap towards a modern administration. A modern and sized administration in its legal security needs provides public employment as well as stability and quality. And to achieve this, as I said, it is necessary to give a future answer but also to find a solution to the workers who have been in situations of abuse all these years. Aware of this, since the Socialist Group we will not oppose ourselves, we will vote in favour of this popular legislative initiative. But we have to say that we understand that we have to wait for the processing of state legislation. We share that the debate in the Galician key is necessary, we have to adapt state legislation to the reality of our country and give a solution to all the workers who have been in situations of abuse for years, setting up, as I said before, mechanisms, but within the legal margin, that will enable them to stabilize their situation and prevent them from being unprotected. But we need first to have approved a state framework to act, because if we don't go through it would be very short, and legality and constitutionality could be questioned. So we understand from the Socialist Group that it is far more appropriate that parliamentary processing becomes conditional on future state law so that it can be included within this framework of debate and, as I said before, can, within the limits of this brand, carry out a debate based on dialogue with social agents and subsequent consensus to give a proper response to the national key temporality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Tabares Pérez Piñeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u22	First of all, welcome to the new Members and Members. And, above all, welcome citizenship back to this house of popular Galician sovereignty. Well, the situation that is denounced in this popular legislative initiative is the result of the lack of transposition of a 1999 Community directive -- at the end of the last century -- and of the framework agreement accompanying it, which had to be incorporated into Spanish domestic law in the summer of 2001. This failure to comply with obligations, of more than 20 years' duration, and after many judicial resolutions, even caused the initiation of various infringement proceedings against the Spanish State. And this denounced situation, well described in the popular legislative initiative, was compounded by a transcendental fact such as the establishment, from the central state to the entire state, without taking into account the realities of the different territories of the same, a rate of replacement of troops that prevented a proper dimensioning of what is the public sector, facilitated the privatization of public services and, in any event, allowed the precariousness, also of public services and of workers in them. There are currently 800,000 temporary workers in the various public administrations in the Spanish State. And what is the extent of temporality in Galicia? Well, from the Galego Nationalist Block, what we can say is that we cannot certainly need it, despite the fact that we have brought different initiatives, questions in this plenary, questions in committee, even non-legislative proposals in this Parliament. In spite of the fact that at the Transparency Portal, or as a result that at the Transparency Portal, data has not been updated since July 2020, i.e., or the Union itself knows the data of the staff's timeliness in the service of the Autonomic Administration, or, more seriously, that it does not even comply with transparency rules. In any case, in view of the data coming there and even what makes it possible for us to have different and multiple interviews with staff in the service of the Public Service, the timing of the Government of Greece is around 30 %. In the health sector it reaches 40 % and in other services, such as non-teacher staff in university education, which stands at 40 %. And how well it has been exposed and we have denounced on various occasions in this Parliament, in sectors such as the Galego Consortium of Wellness, it is more than 80 %. What is true is that this temporality is not questionable, but it is on the Transparency Portal, is that reality in the Government of Wales during the Government of Nuñez Feijóo tripled, multiplied by three precariousness in and in the workers of the Greek public sector, something we understand is not by chance and is not innocent. [[Applause]] Well, it has been mentioned here -- and it is quite true -- of different resolutions of the European Union Court of Justice, namely the 19 March 2020, or more recently an auto of 2 June 2021, warning the Court of the high rate of timeliness in public employment of the State, the failure to transpose that directive and the framework agreement for 20 years. And in addition, a much more serious thing is the situation of abuse in the temporality in which it was happening. That is to say, from structural squares, i.e. from places necessary for the operation of public services which in the Spanish State and the Autonomous Community Galicia were also dealing with temporary staff, necessary squares, essential places for the operation of public services with precarious contracts. In essence, the Court said, to urge the Spanish State to transpose the directive, or to put an end to the situation of abuse and to provide sufficient dissuasive mechanisms, in accordance with that Court, to prevent such precariousness from being maintained in the public administration. And what did they do before those judicial resolutions? What did the Spanish State do? Nothing. What did she do to Galician Union? Nothing. In the light of the Luxembourg resolutions, before the High Court of the European Union resolutions, the Court of Justice of the European Union, neither the Union nor the State did anything. It is when we have been told from Brussels that if we want to approve recovery and resilience plans, measures will have to be taken to reduce timeliness. It wasn't about justice, it wasn't about injustice, it was about fear that these recovery and resilience plans wouldn't be approved. And as a result, the so-called Icetazo, the Royal Decree 17/2021, the urgent rule, and we would also say that it is hasty, that fortunately at this time it is in the process of correction, processing as a bill, and we hope to correct it, be corrected that project and that it allows to end temporality without penalizing public services or people who for many years have suffered such a situation of temporary abuse. This, the Spanish State, and during this time what did the Galician Union do? Nothing, even before the various initiatives of this parliamentary group, the Government of the Galician Union, the Government of the People's Party did nothing either. Even that hand-held policy, that constructive opposition policy to solve a certainly complex problem, the People's Party has done once again, mutely through the forum. And if we understand it's an absolutely complex problem: First. We have to address, we must avoid these future situations, and that is probably not the most complex thing in the matter. We understand that it is perfectly resolvable; firstly, by eliminating the basic replenishment rate, since it is not acceptable for the State to tell all public administrations throughout the territory that they must contract, to whom they must hire and how they can supply the discharges they produce or the needs of the provision of their public services. As well as compliance with public offers of employment in time and form, with the imposition of sanctions measures, both the public administration and the identification of the holders of the administrative bodies responsible for this precarious situation, and the provision of sufficiently dissuasive compensation so that the public administration does not pay the cost of hiring and precautioning public employment instead of ensuring fixed employment. And then -- and more complex -- you have to deal with the situation of people who, for many years, in many cases, have been suffering from this abuse of temporality. And for that, as we have said in this Parliament on several occasions, on the basis that not every temporary contract is in law fraud, that is, there are legal and legal causes for temporary recruitment, as may be the replacement of a Member who, like Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who has been in this House for decades, is a perfectly legal situation, although it may be a very prolonged period of time. [[Applause]] There are later differences in situations of law fraud due to the abuse of timeliness. Some people have been in office for 10, 20 or 30 years, many people, and some people have been able to work for days; some people have come to this post in Ourense Provincial Deputies; and some have entered that post by exceeding a selective process to acquire that temporary square. Nor have there been those who had the opportunity to consolidate that square because they went out in an OPE, or who haven't even had that opportunity for 20 years. There are also situations of law fraud, as it is found in the initiative, which are not because of abuse of temporality. Therefore, for the Galician Nationalist Block, the solution passes and will go through precisely the case of the abuses of temporality, of the circumstances of the people abused. And to deal with trade union organizations, trade union organizations in this country, because this country, this state, is multi-national and multilingual, but it is also multi-union. Therefore, Galician trade union organizations must have their own voice in the arbitration of a solution to this problem of temporality abuse. And, of course, we do not share the opinion of the Galician Council, the opinion expressed by the Legal Counsel, even in writing, that they claim in the courts. So, perhaps, they mobilize to give a solution. No, we have to give a political solution to a serious problem. We understand that at best the solution cannot be unique for such firing situations. We understand that we have to be very careful not to generate third innocent people who, for example, after 20 years, see that there is a supply contest, a transfer contest, because there are many sectors of the Galician Union that have been waiting for years to be able to work near their home and finally get summoned. We need to take care of those supply processes. And by the way, we think that contact with trade union organizations has to be prior to the solution, not after the solution is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u24	In short -- and already to conclude -- from the Galego Nationalist Block, since we are in a debate for the opportunity of the measure, we will not be obstructing any, quite the contrary, for the start of jobs and for the search for a just solution that has long demanded this precariousness and privatization covered by public services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u25	Thank you, Mr. Tabares Pérez. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u26	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam representative of the commission promoter, I mean here that I am also temporary staff in surplus, because I have been in municipalities of different political colors for 18 years. Because here if it's for each other, all political organizations have responsibility in this situation that thousands of people are working in the public administration. I haven't had the chance to access any OPE because they haven't called her in these 18 years. Others, even if they had the opportunity, did not present themselves, or because of circumstances of life did not approve them, but did they have that opportunity. I didn't have it. The problem of excessive temporality in the Greek public sector is mainly due to the problems of basic legislation of the state, the gentlemen... know that everyone here is also present. And so, in recent decades, state budget laws have imposed rest rates that do not cover all vacancies that originate, and the fixing of these low-cost replacement rates imposed by the Central Government has significantly contributed to the progressive increase in the rate of temporary employment in different public administrations, especially in essential sectors such as education, health and social services, which extend to the whole population and which are particularly sensitive to social and demographic changes that are occurring in an intense and accelerated manner in recent years. As the Councillor of Fairy has already stated in this House, we have the paradox that, while the judges sanction temporality in public administrations, the Government of Spain refuses to withdraw the replacement rates, which are precisely the limits that prevent that same temporality from being reduced. As you know, the replacement rates have been applied since the last century, but the big cut takes place in 2009, when the Socialist Government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero decided to reduce them from 100 % to 30 %, i.e. banned the convening of 70% of the vacancies that took place those years. And that was, by the way, with the vote in favour of the Galician Nationalist Block on those State budgets that introduced this cut. In later years, that socialist government itself led to a 10% cut in replacement rates. So 90% of the vacancies could not be filled, and that is with the vote in favour of the Nationalist Block Galego to all the budgets of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. Because whenever socialism governs, it is in minority and it counts on the complicity and support of the Galician Nationalist Block. Here we talked about who had been in this Parliament for decades, and here the oldest lady is her leadership, Mrs. Ana Pontón -- no, the honourable lady, applying gender terminology, Mr. Tabares, would very well be a sexist language course -- [[Laughter]] The oldest Member of this House, the dean of the honourable Members, is Mrs Pontón, the leadership that has taken the most time in this House, and that leadership, when she signed the pact of Ana and Adriana, what did she say about the replacement rate? [[Applause]] Well, in that pact where Mr. Pedro Sánchez made president, he put it textually: "To analyze the formulas to progressively improve the response rates of public administrations, in order to ensure the proper functioning of public services." That's not removing them, that's analyzing them, maybe gradually, gradually, but we don't know very well in what sense, they didn't reveal what that analysis would go to. Well, this scenario must be completed with the significant impact of the directive already discussed here in 1999/70 on the framework agreement, which has and has in our Spanish legal system and therefore an important impact on jurisprudence. This framework agreement highlights in its preamble the preeminence of indefinite contracts as the most common form of employment and pursues two main objectives: on the one hand, to improve the quality of fixed-term work, ensuring the principle of non-discrimination, and on the other, to establish a framework for avoiding abuses resulting from the use of successive contracts or fixed-term work relationships. And in clause 4 the framework agreement establishes equality between temporary and permanent staff, based on a principle of non-discrimination, except for objective causes that justify a difference in the legal regime of both classes of staff. And in clause 5, as you know, it provides for measures aimed at the misuse of temporary appointments. And in this, although this clause does not have a direct effect, the Court of Justice of the European Union insisted that the determination of abuse corresponds to national courts and that the application of dissuasive solutions depends on national legislation, as has already been said here, urging national authorities to take effective and appropriate measures to prevent and in their case punish possible misuse of temporality. In any case, the Court of Justice of the European Union shares Spain's position that the automatic transformation of a temporary service relationship into a permanent service relationship does not fit our administration. This option is categorically excluded in Spanish legislation, as you well know, since access to career or employment status is only possible after a selection process that guarantees constitutional principles of equality, merit and capacity. Well, there's been a lot of talk here about temporality in Galicia. I'd like to teach a painting that is not made by the People's Party, it's data from the January 2021 Ministry of Business, the Staff Bulletin for the service of public administrations, where it's clearly seen that Galicia is the autonomous community with a lower rate of timeliness in Spain, below 30%. Well, you say no, it's data from the Ministry of Business, it's not data from Mr. Feijóo, the People's Party, or the Galician Union. Look, Galicia has 29.8 %, followed by Castile-A Mancha, with 32.5 %, almost three more points, Castile and León, 35.4 %, five and a half points more than Galicia, and so we could go up to 50% in Canary Islands, or 49.4 % of neighboring Asturias. Mr. Tabares was talking about some data here, as it could be 80% -- he said -- from the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare Services. I remind Mr Tabares that this chiringuit was created -- he was the king of chiringuits -- created by the Nationalist Block of Wales. And you know how they did it? Provided only temporary staff, but selected outside the Galician board lists. They weren't worth it. They wanted you to select it. Also leaving these staff outside the Joint Workers' Collective Convention and therefore outside the opposition circuit, and to end by assigning them 32% less pay than the Joint Workers' employees who do the same work. Precautionary measures that were neither of the People's Party nor of Alberto Núñez Feijóo were of the Galician Nationalist Block, which was vice-president of that Government and which created that consortium, Mr Tabares. [[Applause]] Well, I mean, I don't have time to say all the things that I have here, but it's been mentioned here in Royal Decree 14/2021, of July 6, of urgent measures to reduce timelessness in public employment, which requires job offers related to these stabilization processes to be approved and published in their official journals before December 31, 2021, and their respective summons before December 31, 2022, which must be completed before December 31, 2024. This provision is of a state-wide nature and is therefore obliged to comply with the Greek Administration, which has no powers to extend, restrict or modify it. Therefore, the Council of Galicia must apply the provisions contained in this royal decree, or if it were the case of the legal provision which completes or replaces it. It is in the hands of the State Government to make such changes. So there is nothing we can do in this Parliament that changes these state rules. Some parliament has tried, the Parliament of La Rioja, as you well know, and the Central Government has resorted to the Constitutional and the Constitutional "suspends the conversion into fixed five interiors of Parliament. The Constitutional Court dismisses the central government's appeal, which saw in the decision a violation of rights in access to public employment in La Rioja." So I don't think we can play with the expectations that a lot of people have in this process. I think it's important to wait for the state legislation that is being processed at the Congress of Deputies, and, as the proposal itself said, they will have an essential part in the organization of the public service, but that's right, after the state legislation has been passed. I don't think we should generate false expectations for all those people who are at the moment of work uncertainty by approving a legislation that nothing will solve, and that is not a solution to this problem. The solution begins in the Congress of Deputies to pass that law, and then Galicia will take the decisions it has to make; in the meantime, we cannot accept this proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Prado del Río. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica rold, Mrs. Andrea Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u28	First of all, thanks to the parliamentary groups for their intervention. And after listening to what we had to say to this proposal, which we consider to be inevitable, to comment that for us it is a very important indicator to see that Mr Feijóo and the Government of Galicia are absent, because it must be that you are not very interested in the subject of temporality, of which they are cause, and the truth is that we are very surprised by the attitude of the People's Parliamentary Group, especially since what we are asking here is not that today they take a solution, what we are asking here is basically that if you go through or accept in the future the bill that will be discussed, amend and if you do what you need with it, that takes time, we all know, and it does not matter if you are processing in the state something that is a base framework, because then you can also do the autonomous level, in parallel, and that would even go there. Since they are excused, because during the course of the EBEP process, obviously, here you can either go through it as well, or at least take into account, for the timings that are appropriate, our proposal, which is the proposal of the precarious Welsh public administration. Furthermore, if we are competent, because if we were not competent, I would not be here today in this Parliament, because it would no longer be admitted through. Therefore, this lack of competition is obvious that it is a fallacy that is being tried to say here, and ignoring above all, which is what worries me the most, the democratic will of the Greek people bringing here this proposal. Because Mrs. Prado, in 2015, at the ILP debate, said it's a tool for the Greeks to be able to -- they can, she said -- mark the political agenda. He also said that the democratic quality index is very advanced -- the ILP--. However, we are seeing that, in spite of getting the necessary support, despite being in this House, under its absolute majority it will not go forth. But, of course, they're breaking their own words, in addition to being competent on this subject, as it is obvious, that's why we're here. As far as the others are concerned, I am not going to extend much more, because really, the important thing, for what we are here, is the debate and the solution this Parliament has to give. And it won't be Madrid, it won't be Madrid, I also remind you of the other parliamentary groups that alluded to Madrid. It won't be Madrid that gives us the solution to the workers who depend solely on counseling. So, even if we have that basic framework, it seems that what is missing here is the consideration, the interest in debating this matter by the political groups, or by the political group of the PP in this case, and taking this into consideration. Mr. Feijóo has been acting for many years, just like you, Paula Prado, and I suppose that the carpet of San Caetano, which is a witness of this, will remember his union struggle for the temporals, which now seems to have passed to a second plane and which does not interest him at all. [[Applause]] We asked...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u29	Sorry, it can't be manifested from the rostrum either in favor or against, it's a rule we have in the rostrum. I know it's the first time they've been there and probably didn't know her, but these are the rules of the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u30	All right. Well, just leave our perplexity in this House why we don't accept a popular proposal, a proposal by the Greek people with a lot of work, with a lot of effort, because there's a part of Parliament that doesn't agree with our proposal. Many thanks to the groups that support it, or that we understand whether they support it in one way or another, because respect for the will of the people of this House should be the main. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Estévez Barreiro. Follow the vice president. After the debate on the proposal for a popular initiative law for the consolidation of employment for the acquisition of fixed employment for employees and public employees in law fraud in the Italian public sector, we proceed to their vote. We vote. Well, the doors are open but they can vote, the doors open... I can't now, please. [[Protests.]] Please! No, no, please, they know perfectly well that you couldn't get in, but being the doors... normally... we have to go back and explain that normally I won't be there preventing anyone from entering. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All Members know that when we're not in a position I'm hiding the doors automatically, but in a shelter situation I can't close the doors, and I can't stop anyone from coming in. Let's be reasonable. Yes, yes, no, Mr. Aranguena, don't do this to me because I know exactly what it is. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] In the vote they can't vote and they can't come in, but I'm not going to stop it now. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, sorry. [[Protests.]] No, no. [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, the vote was the way it is. He is. [[Protests.]] No, no, I'm not... No, it's a matter that's clear to me. Perfect! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Okay. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry... No, but I've already explained the question perfectly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I explained which... yes... why not? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm already saying that the system... if we haven't had the doors closed automatically... in this case I can't close the doors. [[Murmurs.]] I already told them they couldn't vote. [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But what do you want the word for? Yes, tell me to love her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, I'm sorry. That's it! It doesn't matter! What do you want the word for? [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, I don't know about that. I don't have one! [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] We've always been with the open door here. I don't know. [[Protests.]] I haven't locked her up here since. [[Murmurs.]] No, calm down! [[Protests.]] Let's not get nervous. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They didn't vote. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet! [[Murmurs.]] Let's have some quiet. The rules know what they are. During the vote you cannot go in or vote. [[Murmurs.]] Now, I'm not going to be stopping there with a sand that doesn't between anyone. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Now I don't even know what the vote was. Now I don't remember the result anymore and if you've deleted me here on the computer... it's been so long since... we've voted again... They cannot vote for the two Members, Mr President and Mr Spokesman can't vote for them. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Let's vote, which is the most important. We vote. Voting the adoption of the proposal for a law, of a popular initiative, by the consolidation of employment for the acquisition of fixation of employees and public employees in law fraud in the Italian public sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This popular legislative initiative is therefore not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u32	We continue with agenda item 2. Request for the establishment of a commission of inquiry, proposed by the 19 Members and Members of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, to analyse the causes, consequences and responsibilities of the abrupt emptying of applause in the year 2021, as well as the measures to be promoted for their compensation and not repetition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u33	For the defence of this request you have the floor, by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. I take advantage of this example of parliamentary decoration, civilism and good organization of the debate just before us. [[Applause]] And we continue with a question that seems to us very important and very relevant also for the future of this country. We are all aware that Galicia has been living for three months now in an important crisis arising from the wild drain that different hydroelectric companies have been involved in several hydraulic hubs, something that has important environmental and socio-economic consequences. A situation that has three leaders: first of all, of course, electrical companies; secondly, Galician Union; and also the Government of the State. Three legs that today have the situation still blocked. And in this context there are already three evidences that are absolutely undeniable. First of all, the problem continues, which follows, that there are no effective measures by the authorities for this to be unblocked or, of course, for it to never happen again in the future. Secondly, information, both by companies and by these administrations, is confusing and contradictory, and therefore light and tachygraphs are needed. And thirdly, there is evidence that these three parts also have a shared responsibility in this situation. That is why, in view of the seriousness of the facts, we have an obligation in this Parliament to analyse the causes, analyse the consequences and the responsibilities; to find out what really happened and also conclude what steps must be taken both to compensate for the damage that has been caused and to avoid a repetition. And it's not a debate about competences, it's just a debate about whether we defend this country or not, the debate is whether we use self-government and the instruments that we've been given to safeguard the interests of this country or not. If we go to the root of the problem and take action, or if we simply attend as mere spectators to the continuous pim pam pom between administrations to attribute the responsibilities. A situation in which we've been installed -- I insist -- three months and it's been shown to be absolutely sterile and failed, as it shows that this very week it is 12.50%, or The Doors, for example, at 14.74%, when there was a year more than 72% of their occupation. So since BNG we understand that parliamentary policy must be useful to the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks; and that is, in short, what we are going to vote for today. Because, when there is a occurrence of this gravity and this dimension, there are different questions to be asked: could the damage be avoided? could it have acted differently? What do we change to not repeat the story? These are questions that we ask ourselves or must be asked in the face of any serious facts, and those questions must be answered in this Parliament. First of all, because of the strong social and strategic relevance of this matter; secondly, because Junta was part of it and today we know that there was bad praxia; thirdly, because it is also here in this House where the legislative power lies and therefore our ability to change things and to talk about the future. So we asked for this commission of research, and research and not study, because, in addition, today we know that there is something very serious about it, and it is that both the Union and the State knew this was going to happen and they didn't act. We know, as far as Galician Union is concerned, that on June 10th and July 12th there were communications from Iberdrola and that the Union not only did not take any measures to prevent it or to alleviate possible damage, nor to warn the municipalities and sectors concerned, nor any other matter. The technical services of Galician Union itself -- unless it proves otherwise -- what we know is that until August 20 didn't shift, for example, to those two cheers I mentioned earlier. More than two months passed, it wasn't until August 21 when the board went out publicly for the first time on this matter, solely and exclusively motivated by social and political pressure. Motivated by this enormous work that they have done both the neighborhood of the municipalities affected and basic Greek ecology, as well as the means of proximity, the local newspapers. Thanks to that social political pressure, it was when the Galician Union began to make it exist. But you'll have to explain at some point why you waited 2 months and 10 days until you opened your mouth, didn't you know, in a sample of absolute incompetence? Didn't you want to disturb the electricians that Mr. Nuñez Feijó hugs so much? Or was it just the one who cared about this matter, beyond solving it, unique and exclusively confronting the central government? Whatever the right question is, of course, they all require an explanation. Because Junta knew this on June 10th and it wasn't until September 4th when she used her powers to file some kind of file. Having powers to sanction, he decided to wait for 86 days, in which, moreover, questions were demonstrated as, for example, Iberdrola itself failed to meet the deadline of a month of notice. And 86 days in which, in addition, there were socio-economic consequences by changing the uses of populations, something that affected the agricultural sector, leisure, recreational and tourist sectors, etc. Environmental consequences on the species of fauna and flora that exist in these ecosystems, and we're also talking in many cases about Nature Network, especially protected areas. And even we saw how in this Parliament itself 15 days ago Mrs Vázquez acknowledged that this affected the extinction of fires, without blundering. These facts are not serious, gentlemen of the People's Party, they are very serious. And in addition to the lack of functions, you'll also have to analyze why Galicia's sanctioning capacity is absolutely ridiculous. [[Applause]] Because in this crisis we have seen black on white the consequences of the legislative changes that you have been pushing in recent years to facilitate the extractive energy activity in this country. And in this very legislation, at the end of last year, there was a reform of a new Continental Fisheries Act, Law 2/2021, which lowered the counties of sanctions. What was previously, because of the 97 River Fisheries Management Regulation, had a very serious catalogue and penalties of up to 300,000 euros, became serious and had a maximum penalty of 25,000 euros. Then also, once again, in view of the social answer that this ridiculous question had, comparing the figures, for example, with the wage itself which has the highest responsibility for Iberdrola, because you have already come to the Heritage Law. And they said that... well, that this could be up to 2 million euros; in addition to giving a display of absolute improvisation and lack of preparation of these files. But, of course, Iberdrola, for example, had a net benefit of 1,531 million euros in the first six months of 2021; that is, there would still be 1,429 million euros left to take the hair of this country. [[Applause]] The problem, basically, is that the electrics feel impunity because the central and the Greek governments look elsewhere and legislate to favor them on the road. And the test is also the Iberdrola itself, which has had a sanctioning file in the courts since 2013 as well, a fine of more than 35 million euros, also for manipulating the price of electricity, also altering the situation of cheers, among them, those of Sil. The electricians feel impunity, and the Galician Union has contributed in addition to its performance in these months to this being so. He acted late, he did not exercise his investigative capacity and he was silent, when it is obvious that, beyond all the environmental issues, Galician Union should have a responsibility to say something in a context where it is evident that this happened to speculate directly at energy prices. Which is a very serious problem, a first-order problem that today has home and small and medium-sized businesses in our country. But, of course, the Galician Union decided to remain silent, it would have to wonder why, if it did so out of competence or if it did so again to favor those electricians with whom the President of the Union will place so much in the Toxa Forum this very week. [[Applause]] We therefore understand from the BNG that, regardless of the responsibilities that can be derived from the various files, regardless of the responsibilities that can be derived from the legal sphere, there are also political responsibilities and issues to clarify at parliamentary headquarters to take conclusions for the immediate, but especially for the future. Because, of course, if something has shown the crisis of chorus was the absolute nonsense and the futility of an energy model which is absolutely colonial and unserviceable to the interests of our country. He showed this nonsense that big companies are the ones that control up to the last decision about our natural resources. And he also showed the need for another political framework for water management, because the rivers of Greece -- such a vital resource -- cannot be subject on many occasions, as is the case with several of the gatherings affected, to decisions that are made essentially over 500 kilometers away. That centralist and tax-and-inherited model of franchise, of course, cannot be used to protect the environmental interests and socio-economic interests of this country. So we understand that this commission also has a relevance to the future in a climate crisis context, in an economic crisis context, and in a context where what we are discussing about the energy model of the water cycle will be key to our future. So -- and I'm done now, ladies and gentlemen -- we're convinced from the Galician Nationalist Block that a unitary himself to this commission of inquiry would send a clear and powerful message to the energy lobby that this country is our priority. And that we will not rest, as representatives of this people, until the consequences are healed and until this problem is solved forever. So it's in your hands and we trust it to be approved. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The turn of non-problem parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Orange.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. We are going to vote in favour of setting up this research committee and we believe it would be a real political obscenity if the PP does not support it, after the flood of fake news, irresponsible lies and accusations and outraged accusations of a serious government that has given Galicia's voice on this subject. [[Applause]] Because if anyone analyzes the statements of the President of the Union, it seems impossible for the PP to vote against after Mr Feijóo, in the press round in the last days of August, to qualify or happen as acts of enormous ecological transcendence that Galicia does not deserve, adding that: "I don't know whether it is legal or not, but it's nonsense, it's manifest irresponsibility and it's an inappropriate disrespect for the Galician Government and the Galician. I haven't seen anything like this in the 12 years I've been president." He also said it's an act of blatantly inappropriate irresponsibility of any government and less than one who claims to be in favour of ecology. It's an act of irresponsibility without palliatives, he said. With these powerful and uplifting statements, there is no doubt that the PP should facilitate the opening of a commission of inquiry, because, if he does not, Mr. Feijóo will have to explain how it is possible to affirm that the emptying of applause is a fact of enormous ecological transcendence, a nonsense, an irresponsibility and that he has not seen anything equal in his 12 years of government, and then not to facilitate with his parliamentary majority a commission of inquiry regarding those very facts which he said were so tremendous. In any case, it comes from an unbearable cynicism to see how such claims come out of the mouth of the president of the autonomous administration of Greece, when, within the broad environmental competences of the Union, there is the protection of river ecosystems, which are of enormous ecological importance and fall under the sanctioning regime of three laws, sanctioning and preventive, three laws, not one law, of three autonomous laws of Greece. And not only the protection of the rivers and encouragements of the Galicia-Costa demarcation but, of course, also of the Mino-Sil demarcation that are located in Galicia, regardless of whether the hydraulic management corresponds to the Hydrographic Confederation. In fact, this protection is not optional but it is mandatory for the Galician Union, which cannot choose to protect or not protect, has a tax obligation to protect, within the procedure which establishes its own regulations by its own impulse. In particular, the Water Management Regulation of the Continental Aquatic Ecosystems of 1997, in its Article 83, under the title "water-mass exhaustion" -- which is exactly what we are talking about -- states that: "Always a particular and a concessionary entity of a water-use is going to nullify or empty a total or partial water-mass in which there is an icticcola population that may be affected, it must communicate it with a minimum of one month in advance to the competent body, which shall notify it immediately to the Agriculture, Ganderia and Montes Council, -- which is not the Government, is the Council -- for it to establish the measures to be taken to protect that population. In any event, such communication should be practised whenever the volume of empty water is greater than 80 %. The above measures will be established -- they do not say they can be fixed -- they will be fixed by the Provincial Environmental and Natural Service -- which is the provincial service of the Union, not the Government -- which will monitor and coordinate its execution and, after the previous measures have been taken, will authorize cancellation or emptying with the conditions that guarantee the protection and conservation of aquatic fauna." Therefore, according to the first paragraph of this article, the concessionaires, in this case Iberdrola, have the obligation to communicate to the Union so that the Union, not the State, sets out the appropriate measures, any decrease in the level of their pledges, when there is a risk for the icticcola population. In any case, as long as it drops by 20%. It actually happened. Specifically, on June 10th, in the case of the Cenza and July 12th, in the case of the Encoro das Doors, by writing to the Provincial Conservation Service of the Environmental Council in Ourense for Iberdrola. But you seem to interpret that this is not a communication. Nor is the communication made by the Hydrographic Confederation to 112, to the Emergency Service, which depends on Mr. Rueda. And they're not worth the communication that makes weekly, every week, the Hydrographic Confederation of the level of each of its coronations to Galician Waters. You're not worth any of these three modes of communication and, given their inaction, you seem to be waiting for them to come down from heaven, Jesus Christ himself, to make them communicate. But it turns out that no communication is even necessary, because communication is an obligation for concessionaires and an administrative cooperation technique in the case of the Confederation. But it is not a requirement for you to act and implement the measures which Article 83(2) says you have to establish and which today incredibly have not been established. They have to establish them on their own initiative, they have to determine these measures and communicate them to the hydroelectric companies of their own choosing, not depending on any kind of communication, on the simple, obvious, elementary, obvious reason, that they are not measures for initiating a proceeding by a particular individual, that they would depend on an initiative of that particular, but on measures to protect a public asset such as the environment, as any minimally competent legal adviser in the board can explain to them. And, if not enough, the Galician Fisheries Act lays down in its Article 73.1a.h which constitutes a serious infringement significantly altering the level of water or flow of the river when damage could be caused to fish species. And 83 of the same law allows for interim measures associated with the sanctioning procedure, even before starting that procedure. The same is true of Galicia's Environmental Protection Act and Galicia's Natural Heritage Act, which also include infringements and sanctions and interim measures that may be anticipated. Despite all this regulatory flow and channels to act, it took you 70 days to open sanctioning files corresponding to the above-mentioned Iberdrola coronations, but also those of Belesar and Salas, for infringement of the Fisheries Act and up to EUR 25,000. But until today, Junta has not acted to establish the measures to be taken by Iberdrola and Naturgy in accordance with the River Fisheries Regulation, but also by the laws of natural heritage and environmental protection in Galicia. And the Environment Adviser, first, opens four files amounting to EUR 25,000, but when some media reports that this year the Board has lowered by 95% -- look at the data, I repeat, 95 percent!-- the amount of the sanctions of the Fisheries Act for emptying of cheers, then counsellors realize that there is a natural heritage law that can lead to higher sanctions, which can reach 2 million euros. And, in an exercise of real political spooky and administrative hat, he gives a press round to say he can get to punish for 2 million euros. I mean, he says he can punish for 2 million, but he punishes for 25,000 euros. A true coat of hair, because you can sanction for 2 million, don't say so, Counselor -- that you're not here --, sanction or shut your mouth. To then accuse the Hydrographic Confederation of being in line with the electrics, just the same week as the State Government establishes a series of energy measures that, according to the newspaper ABC -- not exactly communist -- are a government scissors that melts the electrics. [[Applause]] Other media used to say the government's rebirth to the electricians. So if you're accusing the state of the power, you'll have to tell the right-wing press not to say, for the same days, at the same time, that the state melts the power, because both claims are mutually incompatible and exclusive. There is no coincidence of electricity with the state, which is a beautiful friendship of Mr. Feijóo with Mr. Sánchez Galán, President of Iberdrola, who gave him that great grip when he was elected in 2009. A beautiful picture for a beautiful, beautiful grip, for a beautiful friendship. [[Mr. Orange shows a picture to the House.]] There's the picture, there's the press. [[Applause]] Is it because they're members of Naturgy in Sogama so they don't tell Naturgy what measures she has to take a month after her environmental agents get into Belesar? Will it have anything to do with Mr. Feijó's friendship with his inaction on the subject of hugs? Is that why you've been 110 days without telling Iberdrola what measures should be taken in your coronations? In any case, if they don't act prejudge. Prevarican is said to be made of enormous ecological transcendence, as Mr. Feijóo said, and, having three laws to avoid acts of enormous ecological and penal transcendence, do not act. If there is, as Feijóo says, "mades of enormous ecological transcendence," you have to act on that enormous transcendence. And if they don't -- I repeat -- they prevent by default, just like the complaint you made to the prosecutor's office, Adega. And if you don't open this investigation commission, you will in any case prove your total and absolute addiction to political pornography. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u37	Thank you, President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Today the debate is brought to this House at the request of this committee of inquiry to analyse these causes, these consequences and those responsibilities of the unjustified and irresponsible emptying of these concoctions in Galicia, with the drastic reduction of their water levels. But, after listening, above all, Mr Alangüena, the truth is that you have done the research commission yourself, because you have made a conclusive report of research, but, let's go, perfect. However, ladies and gentlemen, this situation, for this exceptionality, has already been the subject, by the three parliamentary groups present in this House, of questions to both the Environment Adviser, in the past plenary session of 14, as well as to the Technical Secretary General, who I believe has given, above all to you, Mr. Aranguena, a detailed article-by-article account, which you have reproduced today, for you have already told the Technical Secretary General. And in both cases, therefore, the answer has been fulfilled and well-founded, above all, to all of you, gentlemen; and grounded in something, which is not in the ideas of the People's Party, but in the norm and in the vigorating legislation, which changes a lot. From this People's Parliamentary Group we assume that we all know how to read, that we all read the law, but we have to know how to interpret it, we have to know how to interpret it. Yes, ladies. The seriousness of this issue that we are debating today does not allow any partisan interpretation, because, if it is the lordships of the Galician Nationalist Block, it is all complicity, conviviality, passivity, predation, speculation. If you are, ladies and gentlemen of the nationalist group, the position is this, look, profile. Or probably, and with all due respect, I tell you, maybe that day I read, I read with my glasses a little busy, because the interpretation, of course, you skipped some line. Some lines have left the way, because here the only interpretation is the defense of the Socialist Group of the President of the Hydrographic Confederation, which is the only one. [[Applause]] And it is obvious that the law is the same for all. So the interpretation has to be, too. We assume the knowledge of the general water regulations, we assume the autonomous regulations, which they know, of fishing and natural heritage. And let us assume, ladies and gentlemen, that you know this coordination that has to happen when there's a concession. In any case, Mrs. Presas, I think you've escaped from asking for an investigation commission here. We should focus on the Fisheries Act, the Water Regulations, which has forgotten the Rules of Procedure of this House, which in Article 52a, first of all, says that you yourself can request this creation of the commission of inquiry, without the invitation of the majority. We don't need him for anything, the vote of this parliamentary group for nothing he needs. So it would be curious for the Socialist Group to see how you ask for an investigation into a self-reliant body that depends on the central government. Let me once again, because I think that, after the advisor has spoken, the technical general secretariat has talked about, the situation has not yet been clear and we're going to contextualize what happened. An investigation into a joint action but a state jurisdiction. I'll try to sum up the facts because time is not much, so they understand what's done, how it's done and by whom. This summer we recorded this drastic and abnormal drop in the level of the belesar, Gates, Cenza, Salas, belonging to the mine-sil hydrographic demarcation, the competence of the state. I think that's how we all agree. That there were some levels of unwarranted, drastic and worrisome water discharge, in a hydrological year like this year 2021, totally normal, I think we're still in agreement. It is given the circumstances that these coronations, state competence, contrast with others that are of the Galicia-Costa hydrographic demarcation, of competence or autonomous responsibility, which present a situation of total normality. It's a bit contradictory, ladies and gentlemen, with a normal situation of 60%, when there's a board regulation that prevents these abrupt and unmeasured water discharges above those alarming data that we've been talking about in these last few days. I ask myself a question: when you talk about inaction, what inaction do you talk about? Because precisely the pledges of responsibility of the Greek Government are in a normal situation. So, or we're talking about the action of the Board, which did its work, acted quickly, forcefully and comprehensively, or we're talking about the central government's inaction, it's called the Hydrographic Confederation, which motivated or gave rise to the situation in which we found ourselves. You, ladies and gentlemen, confused the papers, confused the papers, because Junta de Galicia has very strict and strict control mechanisms, I refer to the facts and the situation, not to the facts, to the situation. And it's compatible with hydraulic use, supply, preservation of the environment, diversity, fishing, rivers, tourist activity, because we protect that minimum level of exploitation, gentlemen. Down by 20% for this government, for this parliamentary group, is a genuine irresponsibility. And what we also agree on is that action must be taken. Of course, we must take them, against those responsible for emptying the choirs. Against whom? It has been necessary and necessary, against the concessionary undertakings, but also against the body responsible for this demarcation, which has consented to this situation. The only competent and responsible administration -- and I will not tire of repeating it, and this group will not tire of repeating it -- is the State, the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, is responsible for its management. Of course, the facts of a serious administrative infringement, according to the Continental Fisheries Act, of course, are constituting a significant change in the level of water when it can result in damage to the species, when it can result, unless the action is in accordance with or complies with the requirements of the water regulations. They also proposed, as you said, those four files, both to the Confederation and to the concessionaires. Besides, we're talking about that penalty, which could be two million, because we have to first see the condition of natural heritage. Once this condition has been found, it will take place -- and I'm sure it's hard to do so. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalist Group, of the Socialist Group, we are taking action, or are taking action from the Government, and it will reach the end to clear the responsibilities. The conclusion that is drawn from this group of parliaments is that you have not read the regulations or, as always, have read what is right for them, because the law is clear and there is no lie. If you have any further doubts, they refer to the statements of Vice President Third and Minister of Ecological Transition. Maybe she'll explain her statements, or maybe the vice president will be able to take over the competition and recognize the state regulations in these hydrographic demarcations in the emptying of the choirs. He sent Mr. Quiroga a clear message telling him that if he was allowed to apply the law. At no time did the minister come to say, gentlemen, that limiting the emptying of the encours had been the competence of an autonomous organ. Where did you hear him? Follow the example of the Minister of Ecological Transition, who seems to be the only one who has the wisdom and knows the Vigilant Legislation. Yes, ladies, it's not a laugh. But don't laugh, Mrs. Presas, because still the other day, on Saturday, which I think was your National Council... well, alas, no!, he's fulfilling what his spokesperson told him, always with a smile and reaching his heart. Because as they've always protested, it's not gonna be, it's not gonna be, it's not gonna be... [[Applause]] I don't want to forget any fundamental issues either. Yes, yes, that's what your spokesman told you, listen to him, I see you're very kind of a guide and you understand what you want, and what you'd better benefit them, of course, but now it's what you play. And it is up to you, in matters of procedure, that there are two communications -- it seems a lie, Mr. Arangüena, you are a lawyer, who does not know the procedure -- two communications, one of the concessionaires, one of the competent body, is called Hydrographic Confederation, and another of the competent body is called the Hydrographic Confederation, to the competent body of the autonomous community, to propose measures if there could be any condition to the environment, to the natural heritage. Let's see if it's clear at once. The Confederacy has done nothing, it's still doing nothing, that's right, it's messing with small municipalities and messing with private people, but with the rest of the companies, these aren't either. You show pictures, you show pictures, because what it is, is the performance of the Confederation that portrays itself, when there are files in the council, where when you want to do it well, when you want to do it well. So here is the government's concern, which was the only administration to take a step forward, that we want to avoid these attacks on our heritage, that we want to be united in that objective to clear up responsibilities and take appropriate action. We also agree that we should investigate thoroughly, that by your interventions I can see that you are not in the right frame. The Greek Government is being strict, strict, and the only responsible administration in this case is the State Administration. Investigation committee, ladies and gentlemen, yes. Where? At the Congress of Deputies. Why? Because the Mino-Sil demarcation is responsible for the cheers. That's what became clear, it's based both legally and... you read the law. I hope you'd really be clear enough, not because I say so, a representative of the People's Party, because you say so by law, gentlemen. From the People's Parliamentary Group, I therefore believe that it is clear that we will not support the request for a committee of inquiry in the Galician Parliament for the emptying of the concoctions. In any case, Mrs Presas, you turn to the Rules of Procedure, if you are so convinced of who is responsible for this matter. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica from the proposed parliamentary group, Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. First, thank the Socialist Party for supporting this request for a commission of inquiry. Mrs. Mouteira, of course we smile, in general. I tell him that I felt very well at the National Council on Saturday, I see that the Congress of the Ourense People's Party didn't have to sit very well this weekend. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Mouteira, I see you a little bewildered, I don't know if it's because you've lost half of my intervention or because in general this question you don't know how to defend it. Because, of course, besides you, who has been delegated to the board of Ourense for many years and who knows perfectly that the documentation and the writings must be processed, because, of course, it would be a shame for him to come here to defend the absolute chauffeur of the board of Ourense, of course! That's just the point. [[Applause]] And look, yes, indeed, we can read. I'm glad that at last a member of the People's Party recognizes that this country's opposition can read, we're moving forward slowly. And look, and we know so much that, going through the press notes -- that Junta can write, because Junta can write -- this summer, is that, look, it's not like they didn't open their mouths until late August, and they've been opening their mouths all summer to announce to us issues that had to see, directly or indirectly, with cheers affected by this situation and it didn't happen to them... I don't know if they're not going there or if they're just not aware of what happened... 31 July: "Environment allocates nearly 140,000 euros to the follow-up tasks of the rivers" among them. August: "The Union distributes almost EUR 240,00 between nine municipalities of the Ouransian Biosphere Reserve to support them in the custody of the natural heritage", municipalities affected by the situation of these gatherings. I mean, you were devoted to propaganda and the boom when what they had to do was defend the interests of this country. This is what we know to read and we also know how from minute to minute one has been shielded in their own incompetence. [[Applause]] The day that Galicia finally comes out to speak on August 21st, you say that you will not hesitate to act quickly and forcefully if you detect the slightest failure of the ecological flow or any kind of environmental consequences in these areas. Mrs. Díaz, 83 days until the Galician Union exercised its small political power, and now they don't want to support an investigation commission here to light up and tachographs on this matter. The conclusion is clear: if they don't want to, it's because something has to hide. If you're not afraid to see the Galician Union's incompetence, why not evaluate here what the role of the Confederation was? Of course, we invite Mrs Quiroga, former Member of this House, to come here. Of course, we also invite hydroelectric companies. Let's also review here with the board officials in charge of the custody of that territory and see if there's any damage or not. We also have contact with the neighborhood, with the municipalities concerned, who come to this Parliament. We know that's what really happened. What are they so afraid of in the People's Party to open this investigation commission? [[Applause]] The point is that they did not act to prevent it, nor to take the measures of care or reparation, nor did they request the relevant measures from the State. And, of course, here who doesn't read and whose mind is clear. And look, we'd like to have the People's Party vote for this commission, but to do a real investigation commission, not to have it legislate after legislation in the San Caetano drawer, as you do with the Box Commission. And look, precisely this issue I have already argued on my first point because it was fundamental to this Greek Parliament: because of strategic social importance, because the Union is an active part and because we have to talk about the future we want for this country, in the energy field, in the environment, in the water cycle. And look, because when it comes to defending the dignity of this country, we shouldn't be looking at the administrative boundaries. Like, in addition, you have a crime that you come to defend this issue here, when a few days ago you just unlocked for a second time the investigation commission of Angles in the state, and since the BNG we again say it's a shame for the history of this Parliament, it will always be, that here you have not achieved a research commission on English. And saving the distances, you'll see that you're going to repeat the same shame. [[Applause]] And look, they're not going to talk to you either about the management of their basins. First, because the cheers that are expiring are not managed either for reversal to the public or environmental restoration, and there are examples of bad practice. Among other things, on yesterday's Ecoloxists in Action denounced, for example, the unreasonable fines that you are putting in respect of the River Verdugo, despite being certified the flow down below the ecological limits. And you know perfectly well that, if we're not talking about other waters of Galicia, it's precisely because Iberdrola has none, that company that they like so much. What they should do, therefore, is support for this committee of inquiry and that the President of the Galician Council this Sunday also invites Mr Galán to come and explain to this Parliament, instead of hugging him. [[Applause]] I have already finished, reiterating my gratitude to the Socialist Party, reiterating the commitment of the Nationalist Block of Wales to follow the last minute to know the truth of this issue and to arbitrate future measures. Because while you say no, the electricians continue to empty these applauses and simply regret that in this debate, which is not of competence, but that it is to defend the dignity of this country and to work for it or not, you are still installed in the not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. At the end of the debate on the request for an investigation, we proceeded to the vote on it. Voting of the request for the establishment of an inquiry commission Voting of the request for the establishment of a commission of inquiry, proposed by the 19 Members of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, to analyse the causes, consequences and responsibilities of the abrupt emptying of applause in the year 2021, as well as the measures to be promoted for their compensation and not repetition. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. The request for the establishment of this investigation commission is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u41	We continue with the third point of the agenda, which are appearances. Agenda Change Like the Rural Councillor, on his own request, to report on the negotiations made by the Council of Galicia towards the future common agricultural policy 2023-2027
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u42	Mr. José González Vázquez has the floor for this audience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good day to all and all. We started this appearance with some facts, because, as Aldous Huxley said, "the facts do not cease to exist even if they are ignored." In the negotiation of the CAP in recent months we have as a positive fact -- and then we'll talk about it -- the evidence of the great work done by the different communities in the cantabrian cornice. Four regions of different political colour that make up that horn and that have worked together for the sake of defending the interests of their farmers and livestock ultimately of their territory over the past year. Another fact -- in this negative case, something indisputable, I'm sure, and we'll see it in this audience -- is that the CAP that is designed by the Ministry is not a CAP for agriculture and Atlantic gain, it's a CAP -- as the minister said -- Mediterranean, and, man!, the Mediterranean remains something far from our land. Nor can we ignore any other fact, which is that the CAP model that the Ministry has designed with the main support of the southern and eastern peninsula communities does not seem at all to be what was spoken at first. At that first moment it was a model that clearly benefited our agriculture and gain, that of the whole cornea. We're talking about such transcendent issues as the definition of xenuine farmer, and so technical -- and they're gonna forgive me, because I'm sure they're a little too dense in some way -- The diversity of aid, the redistributed payment or the own configuration of the agronomic regions, so far, respond to a proposal for the maintenance of the status quo, instead of being used to push a new CAP towards farms, small and medium-sized farms, of a professional nature, family base and territorial basis, which are ours, those of the cantabrian cornice. To put us in figures, look how important this can be for the Greek farmers and livestock. As you know, the CAP has two pillars: the first pillar, that of direct aid, is EUR 170 million each year that goes to the pockets of our farmers and livestock; and the second pillar, that of rural development, will assume, in this period 2021-2027, EUR 913 million of public funds also for rural development policies. By setting an example of the support provided by these funds, we can talk about the incorporation aid or improvement plans. These are significant figures that reveal the importance Europe has for our agriculture, for the agriculture of our community. And I would like us to take advantage of the time we came to invest here today, in Parliament, in a way, in addition to communicative, and being as transparent as possible. I want to clarify to all those who are listening to me that this transparency is demonstrated because all parliamentary groups have also been referred to all the documents of interest on negotiations, especially some of the documents I am going to mention. And, of course, this apparition was made before the petition, upon their own request, they apologize. It's also true that we've been here a short time ago, it was in May 2021, this same year, and we've seen the negotiations so far, but we understand that it's a matter of enough transcendence for such an important sector in Galicia as the primary sector is, and that's why we have to come back here and tell them everything that has happened since the last appearance. I also want to remind you that at that meeting I finally made a request for consensus. He proposed to hold a meeting with the Government, with the Government of Greece, so that we could all move forward together in the defence of our farmers and livestock. His answer at that time -- and I hope today that some of those issues, at least, we can discuss them -- was that we were late, that everything was already closed, and that we didn't give any information. The facts, which are rather tense, do not cease to exist, even if they are ignored -- as I told them at first -- and the fact is that the facts after May reveal that I transferred them to reality, that there was still a lot to negotiate. Negotiations went on, there was a lot of work. I'm going to go over now to report all that work and we've achieved important achievements for our farmers and livestock. Look, since May 21st, which was my last appearance, we've had over fifteen technical meetings with the Ministry's representatives. But as an important film -- and I'm sure you know it, because we all saw it in the press -- we had a sectoral conference on agriculture and rural development on July 14, 2021. And at that sectoral conference, ladies and gentlemen, we were presented to all the autonomous communities a proposal for an agreement to draw up the Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy, and that proposal contained the model that gave us or put us on the table by the Ministry. It is true that prior to the conference there were bilateral meetings with the Ministry, in which all the communities of the cantabria horn, we all found the money order that the Government had taken in the design of the CAP. They talked to us about the CAP, and then actually, he wrote another CAP, in defense of a more propriety model in the south and east peninsula. Look at what I'm going to say now: I make this statement from a position of utmost loyalty and respect to the Government of Spain, understanding that you have to value all the models of agriculture and gain Spanish. But the truth is that none of the autonomous communities in the cornice liked the line that was taking the negotiation and so, again, we took a common stance. And so, four days before the sectoral conference, there was a document you know, entitled Proposals from the Autonomous Communities of the Cantabrian Corn, with a view to the final negotiation of the Strategic Plan, sent to the Ministry on June 10, 2021. This was not the first agreement of the communities of the cantabrian cornice, we had a first document on March 15, 2009, and a second document on January 19, 2021, always clearly setting the position in defense of our farmers and livestock. Since these documents were sent to them -- I'm sure they read them carefully -- it is clear, on the one hand, that the agreement exists between the four autonomous communities and that our demands are clearly on the line of defending the interests of our farmers and farmers. Consider: we defend, as characteristics peculiar to wet Spain, the small and medium size of our farms, their professional nature -- we will speak of this -- eminently familiar and always linked to the territorial base, to the management of the territory. And in addition, we advocate the productive orientation of our primary sector, towards the livestock sectors, such as milk, or the extensive meat gain, which are distinguishing elements from other areas of Spain. It is also possible to verify in those documents that there has been an evolution, that is, the communities of the cantabrian cornice we assume a certain flexibility in defending our demands, because we understand that we all have to yield to a coherent and truly common CAP model. A position of loyalty to the Government of Spain in order to achieve the best results, but always firmly defending the interests of our farmers and livestock. Look, the first demand I made for you in that document, the cantabria horn, was greater transparency. I remember the voicer of the Galician Nationalist Block, which he also said in May, and we agreed: greater transparency by the Ministry regarding the negotiation process. By giving you a data, Mrs. Aira, we didn't know the composition of the regions until last week, on September 20, and it's hard to negotiate without knowing the composition of the regions. The truth is that at the conference that told you before July 14 we were presented with a document that collected -- now yes -- the CAP model proposed by the Ministry, and that it did not receive most of the demands of the cantabria cornice. But it's just that, in addition, I'd devote a point to talking about the equations and I'd say, then we'll need the issue of the equations. Home!, it's 23% of the budget of the first piar. So there was a common position in all autonomous communities not to vote on the proposal and continue to work. More facts: from June until this show, we were working again with the communities of the cantabrian cornice in the definition of how these echoes could favor all our farmers and livestock. There is another document, which you also have, on July 28, 2021, in which we address the demands of the autonomous communities of the cantabrian cornice with a view to the final design of the ecosystems. During the month of September, we had different meetings of a technical nature with the Ministry and the truth -- I'm going to tell you about the equations, then I'm going to tell you about the echoes -- is that here they've already responded to the demands of the Cantabrian Corn, and I want to thank the Ministry too. And on September 6th, the working group set up at the Agrarian Council was convened to talk about the ecosystems and to collect their contributions. Again, I want to thank here for the fantastic work of the consulting team at the University of Santiago de Compostela, which is doing -- as I say -- a very important work in this whole collaborative process. I'm going, if you'll excuse me, to talk now about the state of negotiations. And I'm going to talk about the first pillar, and I'm going to tell you that, in the face of the shifts and the interventions, I'm going to leave for the second shift everything that is referred to in the equations and the second pillar, and I would now, on the first floor, refer to the achievements that we have achieved in the negotiation by Galicia and those issues in which we do not agree with the model that the Ministry is proposing to us. I'm sure we'll all agree that they're not good for Galicia. As a first achievement, for me most important and essential, it was recognized, for the first time in the negotiation of the CAP, that Galicia has a computational surface deficit for the purposes of the CAP. There's a clear imbalance as to Galicia, and that's why it's not in the documents of the Cantabrian cornice the subject of the surface, because this was a bilateral negotiation of the Galician Union in defense of our farmers and livestock. So for all of us to understand, it's a technically complex matter -- I apologize for it -- but getting basic help is part of the allocation of rights to a specific area in each community. Galicia is 30 points below the eligible area of the national average, 30 points below. And in view of this clearly discriminatory situation in Galicia, what did the Ministry want? Open the surface of new crop orientations: fruits, vegetables and vineyards in the Spanish Levante. We're here saying, man, they can open, we don't argue, but first you'll have to regulate the situation of those autonomous communities that are far below the national average. The fact is that I also have to say that the Ministry has understood our reasoning, which is very important for Galicia, especially if because of convergence we are going to pay per hectare. There are autonomous communities that say that a cow is worth the same in Galicia as in Castilla-La Mancha and that, therefore, they should charge the hectares the same, we would defend until now, with historical rights, as convergence in it is imposing Europe, and or regularizing the permissible surface or we will lose a lot of money. Therefore, this commitment from the Ministry is collected in the document, and I will tell you what we are missing from that paragraph. But, in any case, there is a commitment by the Ministry to be able to respect and regulate this situation. What's this supposed to mean? Well today Galician gloves with 100 hectares of eligible are only charging 44 of those hectares, while the national average is almost 30 points, as I said before 75. And we're asking for at least 66. I mean, up 20 percentage points, reverse that differentiation that we have there, and that would allow us to charge, in addition to those currently charging for the CAP, 164,000 hectares. We're talking about a figure that assumed in terms of money around 20 million euros a year for the first pier of our farmers and livestock, basically the gain of milk and beef cows, which are the ones that have these hectares, which, being now eligible for the CAP, are not charging for different considerations. We understand that this mechanism that these 164,000 hectares are going to charge for CAP rights -- I repeat, hectares that are already on the surface of our owners and that they are not currently charging for CAP -- and that at the same time we can put in place the instruments of the Galician Agricultural Land Recovery Act must achieve the goal that we all -- I am sure -- we want, to increase and recover the useful agricultural surface of our community. It is true, I repeat, that this requirement is contained in the proposal for a document made by the Ministry, but we lack a precision, which is that we regulate those we are under 66% and that we don't regulate those that are already above, because if we couldn't meet autonomous communities like Castilla and León or Extreme that have a lot more hectares than we do. So what we're asking is that we regulate those of us who were in the worst situation, and, as I say, Galicia is different, within which they have an important primary sector, is the one that is below as far as the hectares that are entitled to the payment of the CAP. So, I think it's a demand -- moreover, recognized also by trade unions and agricultural organizations -- complicated, it's a historical demand, and if we're going to have to go to a convergence in which -- I repeat -- it covers the same acre of Castilla-La Mancha, or extremura, or Andalusia that of Galicia, of course, the only defense we have is to increase our area with the right to collection and so we're going to follow up to the end, and so we're going to ask the parliamentary groups of this Parliament to support us, of course, in this demand, that -- I repeat-- until now there's a commitment on the part of the Government, and we're afraid of that precision to arrive or to regulate first those we're under 66%, as is the main case of Galicia. Another important achievement is the associated help. I mean, here's a part of the first pier that's the basic payment, they all charge, and there's another part of the first pier that has to do with certain crop and livestock orientations. There is a very important associated aid in Spain, which is that of the milk cow, and that in Galicia it is also of fundamental importance because we are 40% of the whole sector in Spain. And here, with the support, that is, of the communities in the Cantabrian Corn, that the associated aid had risen and will have an impact on our owners, about 12 million euros a year of increase. So if we add up the associated aid -- maybe 12 million euros -- and in addition to the regularization of the surfaces through the national reserve that is going to be done over the period, we'll be talking about about about about 30 million euros plus, 32 million euros more annually for our farmers and farmers. These would be the achievements, knowing that we were starting from a position to keep what we already had and to improve what we could, and here I'm clearly moving them that we're improving on the first floor, and I repeat that we'll talk after the second floor. Let me make them commit now that parts of the model are proposing to us and that it's very difficult to move. And here, if we can all push for it to move, we're sure we're going to benefit a lot from the Greek farmers and livestock, but they're already collected in the document, and as I say it's going to be very difficult to move. I'm talking mainly about the definition of active farmer. Let's see, as far as the active farmer is concerned, there has been a commitment from the very first moment that we should define as active farmer the one who had a substantial percentage of his total income as agricultural income. Here I'm sure some parliamentary group would ask for more than we defended. We were talking about 30%, that is, of every 100 euros of income that 30 were agricultural, but we could all agree more or less. The fact is that the Ministry has put 25%, but immediately after making this definition, it allows all those who cover less than 5,000 euros of CAP to have not even one hundred euros of agricultural income to perceive the CAP, which is the scheme of small farmers, and that the definition of genuine farmers is being loaded, the definition of professional farmers, that all of us, I'm sure, are here and we have responsibility for this matter because it was very good for the Greek farmers and livestock, because that's what we have here, small and medium-sized farms that, in addition, have a professional nature and have a good part of their income as agricultural income. And the capping, that is, the limitation of aid that we were also sold, which was 60,000 euros, was totally distorted. They can reduce wage costs, i.e. an exploitation that receives €180,000 of aid, if it has 300,000 wage costs, it would be negative, and it can therefore receive €180,000. I don't understand this capping application; both capping and degressiveness. On the other hand, the money left over from capping, that is, the limitation of payments per exploitation, and degressiveness are divided not in the national total, which would benefit us a lot, but through agronomic regions. Again another thing that neither we nor any autonomous community of the Cantabrian cornice shared. But what is most difficult to understand from Galicia's point of view is the redistributive payment. The redistributive payment was registered in the European Community for the money of the largest holdings, which came through capping or other routes, as a percentage fixed, which was for small and medium-sized holdings. And this made sense if the redistributive payment is made at national level, and if the redistributive payment is made by taking the national average, where are the small and medium farms in Spain? In the cantabria. What is the solution given by the Ministry? And I repeat that I understand everything the Ministry is doing, because it has to pick up the different positions from all over Spain, but, of course, what they're telling us is that the redistributive payment is going to be applied by agronomic regions, that is, the redistributive payment is going to be made between the Andalucia and Castile La Mancha, in their case, and it can happen that in the region where those smaller earnings are, is much larger than the largest of the Greeks. So, there will be no benefit in the redistributive payment for our winnings, for the cantabrian cornea's earnings, even in some cases we can get out harmed, because there's some region where we're going with Asturias and Cantabria's livestock, and we're going to be the largest still being very small at the national level. So this is not our CAP, this is not a CAP that we like, but from the beginning we knew we had to negotiate to meet the best conditions possible for our farmers and livestock. I'll finish this first shift by telling them or reminding them that in the second one, of course, I'll talk about echoes, and I'll also talk about the second one, and if it seems to them we're now dealing with these issues -- let's go! do what they look like -- and I'll refer to the others on the second one. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u44	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn of the parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Martín Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u45	Thank you, President. Mr. González, you come back without bringing back the results of the negotiation on the strategic plan of the CAP, which should have closed shortly before the end of the year. We are still waiting to see this negotiation come out after the Government of Spain has achieved sufficient budget for the European Union to meet the challenges of this new period after the European Commission's proposal, which wanted to reduce the aid of the first pier by 3.5 % and by 14.5 % of the second pier by 14.5 %. For Galicia, which suffers from progressive depopulation and the abandonment of the earth, it is essential that the CAP contribute to maintaining its activity in the field through generational substitution, but political guidance is also needed. Because the arrival of European funds doesn't have to mean success, Counselor. Without a strategic direction of our sectors, I remind you again that in the 1990s the fall in agricultural income in Galicia was 25%, nothing more and nothing less; that since entry into the European Union 9 out of every 10 farms have disappeared; that in the next ten years more than half of our farmers and farmers will retire, and that our country has a remarkable imbalance, with 20 percent of the municipalities that have 80 percent of agricultural production, and only Mazarics has more milk cows than all Ourense and part of Pontevedra. And all this is responsible, Mr. González Vázquez: the People's Party, its governments have dismantled the productive sectors during their successive governments, and you come here to suck. I would like to repeat a very clear example: the two most important sectors, or the most important sectors in Galicia, the Greek forest, which, on the one hand, accounts for 50% of the wood production from all over Spain but only provides 13% of the state income, and a similar percentage in employment throughout Spain; or the dairy sector, which accounts for 40% of the entire state production but only provides 11% of the state turnover and 7% of the employment from all over Spain. That's the balance, Mr. González Vázquez. In spite of the millions and billions who came from Europe, due to the lack of policies since their governments, while in the 1990s in Galicia we lowered 25% of the agricultural income, as I said earlier, Andalusia doubled that income. [[Applause]] In that line, and with the serious problems of abandonment that our rural community has, we'll also see the orientation that you and your department give to the new RDP, and why they use that RDP. As I said, in the current negotiation of the new CAP the Government of Spain has defended the maintenance of direct aid and that the CAP perceivers are the professional farmers and the family farmer, and certainly we are all a little disappointed there. But I would like you, at a People's Party conference, to have made it clear to your governments in Andalusia and Castile-Leon because, as you speak of the Government, I would like you to understand and tell people that this is a negotiation. Of course, his companions are turning an orientation into a Persian market, precisely for their own interests. The Ministry has successfully reached a successful agreement for the next decade at European level, with EUR 47,200 million for the CAP, for agricultural and gainful activity in the period 2021 to 2027, which means an objective met and very much demanded by the sector, which did not want to see the funds we had in the previous period reduced. For socialists there are people and not territories, and we say so many times, there are farmers and farmers and not territories. What is fair and reasonable is that two people who cultivate the same thing, in the same area and under the same conditions, receive the same help per hectare. The Government of Spain has wanted to put an end to discrimination which we have been dragging for a long time, and which prevents more public funds from being allocated to those who need it most, because the debate should be how much of the time they receive those Greek farms that need it, and not so much the CAP funds that reach any territory of the state, including Galicia. Europe, following the reform of the CAP which entered into force since 2015, has established the obligation to put an end to historical privileges, and in our country there are farmers from the same basic payment region, even neighbors of plots that, having the same cultivation, receive very different aid per hectare depending on what they produced 20 years ago. We understand that there is a need for a rebalancing which means that those who receive the most aid per hectare will see their amounts reduced for the benefit of those who receive the least, in order to bring them all to an average value of region, a balance that must be gradual. More than those who lose, 56% of the beneficiaries of CAP aid in Spain will have increased their aid per hectare. In most cases, those who proclaim the need not to change anything are those who see the public funds of the CAP as a private right or a dividend for their personal enrichment, not necessarily destined for the field. For our group, the support of the CAP must be for the family and professional holdings that need it, to be viable and competitive, creating economic and social fabric in the territories, and has all the support of the Socialist Group here in the Parliament of Galicia to achieve this objective. The Greek socialists advocate that this convergence is progressive and being applied gradually. We understand that a single rate per hectare is not desirable and that social conditions must be taken into account. To facilitate the generational replacement, more than 140 million euros per year are to be allocated, which amounts to 3 % of the budget for direct aid from the first floor, and of them at least 2 % will go to supplementary income support for new farmers aged 40 or less, and another 1 % comes from rural development measures for the installation of new farmers. A Government of the State clearly feminist as the current one, and you seem to never remember this, has achieved that the prospect of gender is included for the first time in this important Community policy, which allows to set additional amounts to boost the role of women in agricultural activities, a possibility that will be adopted both in direct aid and in rural development measures. Farmers' advisory systems will incorporate information on employment conditions and employers' obligations, as well as aspects of health, safety and social protection in the agricultural field. Direct aid decoupled from production was allocated by 60 % to basic income aid, by 10 % to additional distributive aid as an additional payment to the first hectares and benefiting especially from small and medium-sized farms, supplementary income support for new farmers as an additional payment to basic income aid for new farmers and farmers aged 40 or less during the first 5 years, the eco- schemes, which will count on 23 % of direct aid, which, together with the 2% that Spain can calculate for its highest environmental expenditure in rural development, will make it possible to reach 25 % established by Europe. And in the case of direct aid linked to production, associated payments, to which more than 14 % of direct aid will be allocated, which will be applied to vulnerable sectors socially and economically, such as large-scale farmers, or dairy farmers, as well as protein crops as you pointed out that farmers on our land will also benefit. The beneficiaries of direct aid from the CAP must comply with the condition of an active farmer, who will be the one who is affiliated to Social Security on his own behalf, or who receives at least 25 % of his total income from agricultural activity. We would also like much more, but this is what your colleagues are also submitting to at different sectoral meetings, precisely to get to this point. It shall be ensured that the CAP aid goes to agricultural activities or beneficiaries, and shall therefore be excluded from the payment to natural or legal persons whose main activity corresponds to airports, railway installations, water supply facilities, real estate services and sports and recreational facilities. I mean, a more fair and fair division, and I know it gives you the head, but this before I knew it was the same way. The amount of basic income support received by each beneficiary will be progressively reduced from EUR 60,000. In addition, the amount of basic income support will be limited to EUR 100.00 per year per beneficiary, and we also believe that it is insufficient but at least in advance. In the case of agri-food cooperatives and processing agricultural companies, the application of this paragraph shall be calculated individually for each member. It remains at 300 euros the minimum threshold for the perception of direct aid, although autonomous communities can raise this to 500 euros. The amount of basic income support will be distinguished by regions, which will be reduced to a maximum of 20 regions, where the areas of permanent pasture, dried herbaceous crops and herbaceous irrigation crops and permanent crops will be differentiated. The reduction to a maximum of 20 regions exposed by the Ministry, and the greatest international convergence, coincide, Mr. González, more or less with the proposal that the Government of Greece has taken, as well as the gradual approach to basic aid, as it will bring to full convergence the average value of each region in 8 years starting from 22. The rights of the national reserve shall be granted to holders of holdings which fulfil the status of active farmers, and shall be priority for new farmers, and farmers who first establish themselves. The sectors and subsectors of fruit, vegetables and viticulture, which are not included in the basic payment for the period from 6 to 14, will also be determined as well as eligible areas of sectors already integrated in the basic payment but which do not have the rights on which you proposed to include pastures and bumps, and have our support. As far as EAFRD aid is concerned, autonomous communities will target environmental interventions for the period from 2021 to 2027 the same percentage as in the previous programming period, some 8,900 million to finance their rural development interventions in the territory in these seven years. To encourage effectiveness in the execution of funds, the amounts not executed at the end of the corresponding year-end will be allocated to autonomous communities with the highest degree of execution. On the echoes, Mr Counsellor, let us hope that Galicia's voice will be heard about the need for practical practices to be seen through the farms of the corneal, basically the management of pastures. For rural development -- we said -- Galicia is going to count on an increase of 2.7% and, therefore, gentlemen of the People's Party, Counsellor, just as when we demand an appropriate budget for our country to the Minister of Agriculture, with a very complex negotiation that has had a happy outcome, now it's up to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u46	You have to finish, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u47	... -- I just -- their virtues as manager and being able to convince the rest of Spain of our needs. We'll be careful to see if the Government of Greece is up to negotiation, where it has all the support, once again -- I stress it again -- of the Socialist Party of Galicia, which once again supports the position of Galicia, which is also supported by the agricultural organizations and all the communities of the Cantabrian Corn, among which the Socialist Party governs at least two of them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u48	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It's up to Mrs. Carmen Aira to intervene in the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u49	Thank you, Counselor. I must begin by saying that it is comforting again that this Parliament is talking about common agricultural policy and the state of negotiations, given the transcendence it has for our agricultural activities and to avoid the loss of our rural environment. From this, I have to shake the Counselor by the fact that he had sent the documentation to which he referred 24 hours before his appearance. I denounce a manifest intention to make it clear that there is transparency, but I am telling you that neither this Parliament nor the sector can give you reason. Maximum when part of this documentation is generated before its May appearance. [[Applause]] Actually, it doesn't bring great things because most of the documents -- that is, the three-quarters -- refer to the position of the Cantabrian Corn, not to the strictly Greek and the Greek Government issues. You just told Mr. Counsellor that we were going to expand the number of hectares right away from the CAP. However, the Ministry's document, from the July sectoral conference, does not pick up this point in the same direction, and does not set any priority in those territories where the percentage of AAU covered with rights is lower, as is the case in Greek. So, I understand that the thing is green, that means we don't know if it's a smoke veil or it's going to end successfully. There's also announced -- as you said -- an important increase in aids associated with milk cow, I'm a good news. The case is that it's not by throwing you a cold water jug, but, according to my information, this was not the product of the negotiation, it was an initial offer from the Ministry, and just as to make up for other matters that would not be achieved as little as possible for Galicia, except -- as you mentioned -- as in the ecosystems. And, of course, this associated aid is trying to ease a bit of the difficult situation that dairy farms experience. We are seeing that from Madrid the Ministry has a clear centralist drift that unites different realities of the Spanish State as if it were one. And, of course, neither the cantabrian cornice nor Galicia seems to have the least weight to change the CAP so it adapts to the realities of these areas. And that's why we've been out of the Ministry's parameters, governing who governs, and the Ministry's out of Europe's parameters in the same way. The position of the Ministry, in fact, has changed completely in recent months -- either banded or I don't know what happened -- but it was to stay as it was, without modifying anything in the structure of the CAP in the state. And redistributive aid remains witness, the definition of active farmer is pathetic, the limit of 200,000 euros in aid for basic income for sustainability is obscene, and equality in the CAP is cosmetic. We have no choice but to resume some of the points of the proposal which the People's Party has recently brought to the 7th Commission to underline the support of the Greek Parliament to the negotiating adviser in Madrid, which has been unanimously approved. The positive vote by the BNG was by responsibility for the Greek agricultural sector but knowing that this proposal for us was minimal, as we have already expressed in that committee. It collects questions that ranged from the request for data to the request of the echoes that have reached the Greek reality. The MAPA has already made public -- as you said -- the regionalization model and the 20 regions that are left with its equivalence table with the other 50, as well as the average basic value of aid for sustainable income or additional redistributive aid, CAP languages -- this is also to apologize -- without us being able to determine the number of hectares that are subject to this redistributive payment. In any case, it seems unsatisfactory for the Greek reality. And we don't know whether they count on the requested data and whether they're already in the process of drawing up the allocation estimates for our holdings. Of course, if you have this data you forgot to send them yesterday with the rest of the documentation. [[Applause]] In any case, it is a deeply unsatisfactory agreement for the Greek agribusiness, both because it only targets the legally binding minimum for this measure, both because it proceeds from the regionalization of funds, as you said. In this way, the Ministry designs the implementation of the redistributive payment to prevent the movement of funds between regions, limiting to a large extent the correction of social and territorial imbalances. This application of the redistributive payment clearly runs counter to the meaning of this aid, and if this happens, we demand that the Council -- beyond the complaint, which is legitimate -- go to the Community bodies to denounce the application of the MAPA. It is also clear that not only has this House not been informed of the losses which can entail the convergence the Ministry intends to implement for the Greek farms, but it even seems that the Council is still not counting on the data to allow this calculation to be done. I'd like to suggest that for the next time I send us documentation, it's like these two I just mentioned. And indeed, the definition of active farmers is a real failure. This broad sleeve when considering people as active farmers so that they can receive direct aid harms the rest, since these funds are finite and should be used for aid to people living in this 100 %, and can be compensated for these part-time farmers with other types of aid, since no one denies that they contribute important value to the support of rural socio-economic fabric, and to the care of the landscape and territory. As far as capping is concerned, it's still something that tries to regionalize the Ministry, and then it's also deeply unsatisfactory. There have been many occasions since the BNG we have been talking about equality in the CAP or in rural areas. And this CAP collects a couple of positive measures for aid to holdings of women holders or contributors in relation to regional value and redistributive payment, or in the supplementary to Thursday section. We understand these measures as positive because there was absolutely nothing, now we think that the impact at least will remain on something aesthetic. The error, from our point of view, is found in the references used for increments. This CAP, based on surface aids or number of livestock heads, harms Galicia; and, within Galicia, the most disadvantaged are women and will continue to be. Another error is to use percentages, 5% or 10% increase in lower income benefits means a minimum quantitative increase, you would have to be able to quantify this and, of course, in the future to profoundly modify these references if you want to keep farmers with decent incomes; and within them to compensate for the institutional inequality that women are suffering within the CAP. Sometimes it gives the impression that, having great capacity to promote profound socio-economic change and to be an important engine in rural life, the second pillar is the poor brother of the CAP. I have to talk about this in this intervention because I don't have as many shifts as you do, so there you go. Rural people need co-financing to meet the problems they say from the Council itself, which must be solved. And that's why it's essential that you explain and confirm that percentage of co-financing is going to put together and do the Ministry. Right now this process seems to be going fast and it should be known what funds are there, and how they will be divided between the previously called measures and now interventions. Is the Council clear what priority it is going to make? What priorities and what measures will be put forward? In the past period there was no bet on ecological agriculture or on improving infrastructure and supplies and maintenance of basic services in rural areas. Are you really going to bet on measures that cause changes? But not to the worst, if possible, changes that I made population and provide the rural with communications; or the other option is to leave it empty for wind and electricity, which can also be. This "PDR" -- between quotes -- should be used to strengthen the agricultural sector with public advice, and not to allow it to be provided solely through commercial houses. Another key issue is a strengthened rural area, with basic services and farm-related entrepreneurship, but also with the service sector; this will necessarily fix population and therefore have housing. And for that, there will have to be measures that place this lack beyond restoring abandoned villages. The theme of energy generation also lies in this piar; the question is: what have you thought about this beyond the subsidy of biomass plates and boilers? We think we should be more ambitious than this at this point. And finally, what are you going to do with Leader's funds? Are you going to maintain the current GDR map with huge sized comarcas that make it impossible to carry out a real dynamisation work? Are you going to continue to cover actions with these funds almost 99% of the Greek municipalities or will priority be set for needs? Public participation in the design of the measures of this second pillar according to the needs detected is fundamental but, as you know, it is being highly deficient on the part of the Council. As much as I say -- or even believe it -- it doesn't make it right, we expressly call for public participation to give coherence and meaning to rural development for this new period. And nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aira Díaz. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It is now the turn of intervention for the People's Party. Mrs. Candia López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u51	Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. And welcome also the Members who took possession today. A complex debate, no doubt. The common agricultural policy requires a thorough study that will not be carried out in more than a year in which I have the responsibility of speaking as a spokesperson in the middle of the countryside. But, of course, they were in the last intense sessions where all the voices learned a lot. And I personally want to thank you today, Counselor, for bringing up your request for a second time to explain to this House, but very especially to explain to the rulers, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, to our farmers, how you are defending your interests with a ministry which, as in a very veiled way but if you recognized Mr. Seco, thinks much more in the Levante area than in the Cantabrian cornice. And I appreciate it, and I also hope that this debate, like the 7th Commission, which has already reached some unanimous agreement, will go along with the conviction that we are all giving priority to the interests of the Greeks and not to the interests of our political parties. And then, no doubt, I will refer to the spokesman of the Socialist Party, and also to the representative of the BNG, because, although it was very critical of the attitude of the Ministry, very centralist, I believe that it is never too much to remind you that it is his government, the government that they have supported and that also -- I thank him for the applause -- that in that pact we all know the posteriori between Ana and Adriana, since our primary sector, our demand for our common agricultural policy is hard to find it at any of the points. Having said this and after having that first appearance on May 25, after giving all the groups documentation, it's a pity they didn't appreciate it, but I think it's not a practice, of course, very usual and I think it helps to give rigour to what it has been exposed here, because it humbly explained the achievements. And here I begin with the first discrepancy with the spokesman of the Socialist Party. Those achievements, of course, came after a lot of work and a strategy in some matters in bilateral negotiations and, in other matters, by making me think that a very intelligent alliance with the communities of the Cantabrian cornice. There is no doubt that this debate is of great interest, because it is not to be remembered that, even if the counselor has already done so, it is more than 170 million that go directly to the economies of our farmers and livestock only on the first floor, and more than 913 in 7 years on the second floor. I said the counselor that the facts do not cease to exist even if they are ignored, and yesterday I heard a phrase that I also liked: that the ignored reality prepares for their revenge. And this sentence today, maybe I'll have to remember it in a few months. The cantabria horn began because, in fact, it identified that the Ministry prioritized other interests. Call me attention that when you make the decision, it's also the People's Party's fault. Mr. Seco said here that when that was the case, it was because the members of the People's Party of other communities convinced him. It'd be a bit of a joke, wouldn't it? But if I'm going to value those two achievements that you didn't seem to see or understand the spokesman of the Socialist Party. First of all, and I think it is very important to reverse a imbalance in the area deficit which is computable to the effects of the CAP. Without a doubt, something very important, an agreement that will amount to more than 30 % additional on the surface, which will be more than 164,500 hectares, and which can have an economic impact of 20 million. I believe that this is an achievement that is a fruit of a lot of work, that the technical team and the Counsellor have achieved and that, undoubtedly, I have to put into value. It also seems to me to be very important that the recognition of this issue, as set out in paragraph 20 of the Ministry's proposal, gives national reserve rights to holders of farms that meet the status of active farmers, considering the following priorities, and cites them. And I think it's also super important considering the typology of the farms we have in our autonomous community. I also want to highlight this considerable increase in aid associated with milk cow. Galicia clearly sees itself as being greatly benefited and gaining weight, rising to an amount that exceeds 11.8 million euros. There is a lot to work on and certainly the aim of this meeting today, Counsellor, too, to look for what we have already tried on several occasions, in some cases we have achieved it -- in particular in Commission 7th -- but we also try to carry a proposal where all the political groups, which had no more purpose than to send a message to Madrid that the whole of Parliament was united around claims that strongly defended the idiosyncrasy of our exploits. And that wasn't possible. At that point, the groups explained that it was all done. I don't know if they didn't know or had little communication with the Government of Spain -- there, no doubt, I emphasize more responsibility in this case in the Socialist Party -- but the facts are putting each one on his own, and today we see that part of the aspects that we wanted to include in that statement signed by all the political forces, are still at present because they're still undefined. And in the case -- which was more critical of Mrs. Aira -- she clearly explained that she does not agree with the definition of active farmer, she clearly explained that, as regards capping and the degressiveness of aid to redistributive payment, which is not in accordance with the proposal made by the Ministry. In short, today, months later, we discovered that the proposal was far-sighted and sought only to strengthen the position of a government, the Government of Greece, which in a way -- I insist -- I believe that perseverance, with humility, but with great intelligence, is trying to reverse the proposal that comes from the Ministry. With all due respect and loyalty to our primary sector and our winners. Mr. Seco said: it's more they earn than those who lose. And I gave a percentage. Well, look, I'm not going to argue with you, I don't have any data right now to discuss it. But my question is, who wins? Because if of that 56%, of the Greeks is 1%, the percentage of us is not worth it. The question is, Mr. Seco: In the CAP, who are you with? Are you with Galicia or with the Socialist Party? Why do you, when you give the data and defend your exposure, go to the data nationally and never concretely to the level of Greek? Because he's indirectly acknowledging that the minister doesn't look at Galicia. And that's not what I'm saying. Just today I'm telling you again with my hand in hand, so that you can help the Government of Greece and get the phone off the minister's phone, which is from the Socialist Party itself, and it doesn't look like, after listening to you, that the worse you go to Galicia with the negotiation of the CAP, the better it'll go to you, because it won't... that's a wrong interpretation. We are at a time when transparency is also a demand that the German Government is making to the Ministry, and not only the German Government, but also the rest of the autonomous communities. We're in time, aren't we? We haven't closed negotiations yet. The important thing is that the Greeks and the Greeks know what is going on -- and that's why I congratulate them -- but they also want to know the position this Parliament has in those matters that affect them very directly. I have read some of them, the councillor has explained to us a great deal better, but it is certainly still unsolicited, and it is time that the opposition in this Parliament separates this unclean who has to despise the work of the Greek Government and hold hands and point to success if we all achieve it. Of course, many winners are waiting for the CAP. We haven't shared -- and we've said it, and we've shown it, and we've brought in a lot of times, in addition, data that confirm it -- that catastrophic vision of a German farm, that you started the intervention by saying the farms that are closed and always seeing the glass half empty. There is no doubt that many of the mechanisms that are being put in place right now will have a very positive impact on the development of our most professionalized primary sector with better sized farms and, of course, we hope that this new design of the Common Agricultural Policy will take into account the nearness that in such a serious way is being done by Galicia. It's not a political debate, it's a matter of defending the interests of our knights and knights, and we hope that, more than what we're seeing in recent times, especially for the Government of the Socialist Party, more than the centre of Galicia is more kidnapped by radical ecology that is affecting exploitation in a very negative way. Have your hand and help and reinforce the requests that the Government of Greece is making, and of course, we'll still be in time, probably, Counselor, that this Parliament may even return a non-law proposal -- why not -- gathering all the proposals that you are going to explain now to the second pillar, of course so interesting and that our farm needs. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Candia López. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You now have the word, for the replication turn, Mr. Counselor, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to begin, of course, by welcoming Parliament to the people, to the men and women who joined in last week, and who first forgot my first turn and who reminded me of the voice of the People's Party. After this first shift, I think we've already relaxed a little, and then we're going, if you think, to try to need very interesting things that have been said, especially by the voicer of the Galician Nationalist Block. I'm going to tell you, Mrs. Aira, where it's convenient for the Block to give us a hand for this final stage of negotiation, starting from the basis that we have a very common position, as you said in that PNL, which Mrs. Candia also said, which was voted on in Commission 7th of 3 September. I would also say to Mr Seco that, if possible, in the second turn, let the message already leave this apocalyptic from the beginning and we can speak specifically. Look, there's an issue that's very dangerous for Galicia and we all have to understand it. And I leave the base, Mr. Seco, that you are representative of the Socialist Party of Galicia and defends the Greek farmers and gain. Look, he's talking about historical rights and that this is something that needs to be done with him. Do you know who hears that? You hear the counsellor of Castile-A Mancha, the counsellor of Extremadura and the counsellor of Aragon. Who defends historical rights knows who it is? Andalucía. Why? Because it's the one who perceives higher historical rights and the second is Galicia. But what is this about historical rights? I mean, with all the technical difficulties. What a donor collects is the result of multiplying acres by the value of each hectare, the rights. Let's say it's 1 euro per hectare. What's the thing? That if we have less surface than we belong to, that's the deficit that we told him before 30 percentage points over the national average, or we have higher rights or we get very damaged. As Europe is telling us that we have to go to a convergence, for Europe we have to charge as much a hectare of pasture in Navia de Suanna as in the plains of Castela-A Mancha, that is what Europe tells us, or we regulate the surfaces, these 164,000 hectares, or at the end of this period we are going to lose a cash, a lot of money our farmers and livestock. This is a historic claim, we maintained historic rights because they didn't give us the surface. And this is the first time that the Ministry has opened itself up to the recognition of that eligible area. So, really, Mr. Seco, I tell you very clearly: don't follow that line of convergence which has to match payments per hectare, because they will give you their own farmers and livestock, who know perfectly that our defense was up to now historical rights. We are not against equal rights if the theme of surfaces is regulated. See, in Galicia the area eligible for the CAP is 792,000 hectares. And we are currently collecting CAP rights 363,000, 45 %; national average: 74 %. That is, every 100 acres, for example, in Extremadura they charge 79 acres, here 45. And at Castile-A Mancha, 78. If you want to take Andalusia or Castle-Leon, which I don't care about, because on this issue it's not a matter of parties, it's a matter of territories and model of the CAP: Castela-Leon, 86 and Andalusia, 71. What we say is, hey!, until we get to 66 acres, let us put all the eligible surface so that, when there's that convergence, Mr. Seco, which says you're so good, and we lose the historic rights, we can raise another multiplier that is 164,000 acres, which is 20 million euros a year for our farmers and farmers when the period ends from 2021 to 2027. Mrs. Aira, from what you mean, the point -- the spokesperson of the People's Party also said it -- but point 21 of the document that was presented at the sectoral conference was included thanks to the Galician negotiation, and here this is not collected in the cantabria cornice, because Asturias or Cantabria have this surface deficit. So we had to get the subject off the surface in the negotiation with the Cantabrian cornice because it was a question of Greek. But we transferred to him clearly... I was funny, he said, it seems that it was a government concession on the subject of social assistance. What do you think? That we've been poking in the government precisely to benefit the yellow gain. See, or point 21, or third indent -- I read it in Spanish, which is as it is -- says: The rights of the national reserve shall be granted to holding holders who fulfil the status of active farmer, considering the following priorities. E or third point is: Holders of holdings with eligible areas in which agricultural activity is carried out and belonging to sectors integrated before 2014 in the basic payment, do not have basic payment rights, i.e., Galicia. This is what we demand. What's left now? Of course, this, as it is collected here, and I ask you and the people of... of course, to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, could make all the autonomous communities want to regulate their situation. No, no, no. First they have to give priority to the worst of us. And who are the worst? Basically, in Spain, Galicia, Valencia and Murcia. And how do they solve Valencia and Murcia? With opening up to new crop orientations: fruit trees, orchards, and vineyards. And to us, what do they have to do to us? Give us acres to our gainful farms that are currently not recognizing the rights of the CAP. So this adjustment is missing, we are negotiating with the Government, I have to say clearly here that the Government is accepting, starting from the basis that it has not taken into consideration everything we ask you in the definition of the model, it is accepting what we are asking you, and I hope that this subject also has the sensitivity you have in the equations. I was speaking Mr. Seco -- and then I'll end up referring to the echoes and the second pillar, as Mrs. Aira told me, that I had already told her that she was going on the second turn to talk about them -- tell me that we're going out of the hand of Castela-León and Andalusia. Look, who we're hitting with is basically because they have a completely different CAP model, that's true, that in addition to territory goes from CAP models, but since we have small and medium-sized farms of a professional nature and a family basis, we support that CAP model, as it cannot be otherwise. So, look who else we're hitting, in terms of colloquial -- if you allow me the expression -- is with Andalusia, with Castela-Leon and also with Extremadura and with Castela-A Mancha, because they have a model of agriculture and they would earn totally different from ours. So there's no partisan stances or -- if I may -- territories, because what's a CAP model that we're defending. You'll see if we defend -- and each one defends his -- which I'm sure you saw that he marked everything, but you probably don't know that this government, the national, has just done a traditional olive oil program. If you see the data, it is 0.62 % of the first piar. Do you know what 0.62 percent of the first floor is? EUR 235 million. There's a record of the sectoral conference where the councillor asked him for the same support for traditional chestnut sauces, and reminded him that in Galicia, unfortunately, there are no olive trees or very few olive trees. So here each one is throwing away, without any doubt, for his own, and we are taking away, of course, the interests of the Greek farmers and livestock. There is one question that we have to be very clear, which is the redistributive payment, as Mrs Aira said, and I agree completely, redistributive payment, very much benefited, a percentage of the whole first piar, of the 39,000 million euro, says Europe, which goes from the largest to the smallest. Well, Phenomenal!, where are the little ones? Cantabrian horn. So we rubbed our hands, we said: a lot of money will come for the redistributive payment. What is the end point of the document? They're going to be redistributed by agronomic regions. So they will redistribute between the Andalusians, between those of Castile-A Mancha and those of Extremadura. And there, as I told you earlier on my first shift, probably the smallest of these is much bigger than any of Galicia's largest. So we're not going to see a penny of euro of the redistributive payment in Galicia. And it's more, Mrs. Aira, we can get out of harm because with the composition of the regions equal in some regions there are smaller farms in Asturias and Cantabria than in Galicia. It doesn't make any sense that redistributive payments don't go through national media. It's cash, I mean, we have to take the hectares on the national average, and I'm not going to say what Mrs. Aira said but I give her the reason, I think that Europe is going to see it with a magnifying glass when you're reading the strategic plan, it's not our question, it's not our question that you put that on the table, but, in addition, Europe will come in when you refer the strategic plan. Look, the one from the active farmer, that's for note. Let's see, we've been discussing about the percentage of agricultural income about total income to be an active farmer for about a year and a half. We would use 25%, even though we ask for 30%, that is, of every 100 euros we ask the CAP perceptor to cover at least 25 agrarian incomes, and they go and settle at the end with a question that they say they are less than 5,000 euros per holding they do not have or earn agricultural income to be able to perceive it. I can give you the example of a lawyer or any liberal professional, for example, in Extremadura who owns an olive tree, who earns what you consider, if you only have 500 euros of income and the aid from the CAP is less than 5,000 covers the aid from the CAP, in full. Home! This, of course, it's hard for me to understand that I can be an active farmer. Are there any problems with this in Galicia? There were perceptions that could be in a similar situation and we were willing to give up these perceptions, precisely by going to a model of agriculture and gain as professionally as possible, and will agree with me that the criterion of linking the percentage of agricultural income in respect of total income believes, as far as possible, professionalism. So I think clearly the CAP model isn't the Galician model, it's not the Cantabrian cornice model. And we here, Mrs. Aira, have had a position from the beginning, we are very well advised, I say, we have a lot of information and from the very first -- from the university, if it seems to you, with an agreement signed at the beginning of this negotiation --. We knew perfectly well that this model could benefit us greatly if we kept the initial position. It changed but still we didn't lose about what we had in the previous executive period, and we had two important issues, and it was negotiation. First of all, to guarantee more money for the milk cow, and here we have the associated aids, these 12 million euros, of course, fruit of the pressure of the cantabria horn. And, of course, for Galicia is very important, with the recognition of that surface deficit and which first regulates those below, which, I repeat, is Galicia, Valencia and Murcia. Valencia and Murcia arrange it with the fruits, vegetables and vineyards, but before new crop orientations enter, they have to allow the hectares that today are not collecting from our livestock, from the dairy and beef cattle cattle, which, in addition, needs, the latter, unfortunately, much of this support and support. Well, I'd also like to finish up, as I said earlier, as far as echoes are concerned. And here I warn you, we're going along the right path with the central government, with data last week. And also a brief reference to the configuration of the second piar. And I'll talk about transparency. By the way, Mrs. Aira, I thought she had been sent the documentation on Friday, but, in any case, if she got here, I say what I just believed; in any case, I had no obligation at all, but delighted to send her and I'll try to complete it as much as possible as possible. Because I understand that this is a technical problem, in addition, when I was told at the meeting in May, I understood that this should be the case. As for the eco-designs, what we told the Ministry at the July sectoral conference is that we couldn't vote for a CAP that hadn't defined the eco-chemistry, which is 23% of the first pier. We even wondered how they could put us on the table that we voted on a proposal where 23% of the funds are undefined. Earlier, in the previous work, at the sectoral conference on July 14, we had already made some progress. I'm sure you know him by the representatives of the agricultural organizations in the Agrarian Council, which was the incorporation of a new ecosystem for support for crops, which we thought might be very interesting for Galicia. And at the same time there's also some novelty in the ecosystem of the extensive pastoral care, which we're particularly interested in. There are four echoes of the eight that are defined to be of interest to Galicia and to the cantabrian cornice, and they are the ones of extensive pastoralization, the ones of crop rotations, the ones of non-productive areas and the ones of harvest pastures. In these four schemes, the letter sounded good, but it's true that in its technical concretion, we have to fine-tune more to suit our characteristics. Again, we pulled from the strategy of going together all the autonomous communities of the Cantabrian cornice, and on July 28, 2021 we sent the MAPA a joint document on the demands of autonomous communities of the Cantabrian cornice with a view to the final design of the ecosystems. Here we present a series of changes -- I'm not going to go into the technical detail -- but I can tell you -- and I also want you to count here in front of all of you -- that the Ministry is responding to the demands that the channel horn made in the profile of those four equations and, the lack of only the sending of the modified chips, at last week's meeting they confirmed virtually everything we were asking for in the document of the Cantabrian Corn. What we're still keeping and it's non-negotiable for us is that in no case can eco-schemes bring additional demands to agrarian activity. These incentives must come in the way of facilitating activity, never as a requirement to be able to carry it out, and more in the case of farmers and livestock such as the Greeks that most of the time they are doing is managing with their agricultural activity and gaining the territory and, on many occasions, facing precisely that management of the territory, the fight against forest fires. And, referring to the second pillar and also to some of the issues that Mrs. Aira raised, I say, first of all, that we are demanding -- I would see it in the documents -- an increase in EAFRD allocations, at least 5%, for the communities of the Cantabrian cornice. This is still being negotiated, they're asking us to put back all the chips in October, and they're talking. And I'm going to talk to you about public participation. In addition, as far as funding is concerned, we demand that the balance be restored, Mrs Aria, between the central administration's arrivals and the autonomous communities, which were broken in the previous period. We understand that it must be maintained, and this is not a question of who is ruling in Madrid, but it is a question of defending organizations or autonomous communities precisely in that division. We also ask that the design of the measures of the second pier be done from below, that is, by the autonomous communities, and that whatever the strategic plan of Spain is a conjunction of all peculiarities. Look, I'd like to highlight what we're working on in the speeches, Mrs. Aira, answering your questions, and you'll see it on the sheets, as soon as you can get it. Not today, but this past week, you've been referred to the EAFRD tracking group, precisely where all organizations are represented, so you can also listen to their contributions. First of all, of course, we're going to pick up -- it couldn't be any other way -- the promotion of initiatives for the recovery of Galician land, in the development of Law 11/2021, which I don't know why it bothers you that we recover villages, which, of course, are not abandoned, are working very well, in addition. Helps the incorporation of young people. This is an important novelty, but we understand that we should pick it up to 41 years, which is how it is now, but we're going to increase the incorporation aid from 41 to 55 years so that there are people who can redirect their professional life to the agricultural or livestock sector. The promotion of public counseling through the professionals already available to Junta de Galicia in the network of offices, comarcas areas that are currently about 30 of them being the subject of fitting works. If you're going to tell me after that "at last" or "it's here," you can check; we're doing it, and we're also pulling towards its digitization and the new specialization of the county offices. This also has to do with the rotation of the aids, so they can have more time to make this advice. And we're going to push and incorporate in the next feeder the tutor figure that can accompany farmers and farmers in the development of the improvements of their farms, especially those that integrate into agricultural activity. A firm support for eco-production, as a way to increase the added value of our community's products, is also collected on the sheets. The help lines. This is an important subject for me. In the past Council of the Union we talk about priority areas for the recovery of traditional consignments. We will plant chestnut trees, which nobody cares about, there will be new plantations of chestnut trees, but, of course, we have to recover those fundamental agroforestry systems from our rural environment. The help lines for environmental investments. It also has to do with the treatment of purins on agricultural holdings and agri-food industries. And here, another important novelty of the next EAFRD: we first activated in Galicia -- it was done last year with the loan selling -- the financial instruments. We're going to support our farms, not only with deep-lost grants, but also with funding so that they can cope with their investments. And support also -- it can't be otherwise -- in actions in the livestock sector that also guarantee the most about animal welfare. And here too, and you're going to see it on the cards, a clear support to the profit in broad terms, being aware that this is the best formula for our winnings to deliver the best quality products, while also respecting the rights of animals. I would also like to refer to something in which I firmly believe, which is that the large gain has to cover a fundamental role in two other aspects that will be reflected in all measures of the second floor, which is preventive planning against forest fires, the management of the territory as a fundamental mechanism to be able to do that prevention. And here we're going to bet clearly for using the profit extensively. And, at this point, I'm going to finish this second intervention by talking about participation, because I was also asked by Mrs. Aira. And here we bet on that participation. And I've already said that at every moment of the negotiation, we have to open up to what we can, or if we have to, that participation. We're working with the Agrarian Council working group. If we also have a Forest Council to refer to the forestry measures, which are, essentially, the second pillar, we are, of course, with the EAFRD Follow-up Commission, where all the different organizations that have to do with the sector and also with the university of Greece are represented. But in addition, in the area of being as transparent as possible, I would like to announce today that from this very day on, there is an operational web tool available on our official Middle Rural page so that anyone who wishes to forward contributions that he believes are convenient for this last phase of CAP configuration can do so. And let it be clear that, while we try to listen to all the suggestions regarding the CAP, also, of course, to the parliamentary groups that are here in the house of all the Greeks, Parliament, to defend a position as beneficial as possible for the Greek farmers and livestock, we will continue to fight for their interests as so far, collecting achievements and advancing in the design of the implementation of the CAP, which, although it is true that it is not our CAP model or fulfilling all the requests made to the Ministry, is, for the time being achieved, advantageous to Galicia also thanks to the momentum and negotiating capacity of the Welsh Government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u54	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u55	We have now opened a special round of clarifications for which you have the floor, first of all, the Socialist Party Member, Mr Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u56	Thank you, President. I don't know if we've come to get a pessimistic message about the outcome of the negotiations, or if, on the contrary, optimistic. What goes wrong is the fault of the State Government -- bad with horns and tail-- and what's good is thanks to you, Counselor. It doesn't even say that it is, at least, the result of the whole general position of a cantabrian cornice that obviously coincides with its claims and in which, of the four autonomous communities that make up this common front, one of them has president of the Socialist Party, and the other two we share government with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Cantabrian Regionalist Party, which I imagine will have something good as well. I want to get into this because it gives the feeling that you sometimes become the most nationalists, at the same time trying to justify your own comrades. Because it makes sense, when they talk about the Ministry's proposals, as if they were proposals that are not beneficial to Galicia, they are proposals from the Ministry, they are not proposals from the People's Party in Andalusia or they are not proposals from the People's Party in Castela León, because they are, Mr. Counsellor. And, therefore, if you are so worried and tell us that we have to lobby with the Government of the State, which, of course, we have to do so, you also have to do it within your party, Mr. Feijóo, as it is a political reference within the state People's Party to make Mrs. Crespo Díaz, who is a counselor, I think that the People's Party in Andalusia, Mr. Fernández Manucioco in Castela León, who also lobby within the People's Party to make her colleagues understand the needs of the Cantabrian Corn. [[Applause]] So I don't know if -- I repeat -- positive messages are just you. That aid associated with milk is a matter that you get, but the bad government isn't, it's not also a matter that the Government of the State is sensitive to the dairy sector, precisely in order to try to benefit from it in this kind of aid. You seem to want to make me understand that I support convergence. It's not that you're in favour, you know that Europe is forcing convergence, or are you also against the European Union? Maybe now we've discovered the profile against the European Union of the advisor. But I repeat again, convergence is neither good nor bad, it's mandatory. So we have to walk towards that convergence, whether we like it or not, and you'll know -- because today it has to have more than we're studying -- how our livestock and our farmers are going to stay on the proposal from regions, to know that it's true that the Rural Councillory has to tighten up, especially in one of the regions where we can get out harmed, such as the North of Pontevedra and Coruña; and in the others, of course, we clearly benefit. So I believe that there is the Councillor's ability to try to get better off in this negotiation in which all the autonomous communities of the state participate. It's not a negotiation of the councillor with the Minister of Agriculture. I don't know, the spokeswoman of the People's Party says I'm a catastropheist giving data that's nothing but the papers, they're statistics, Mrs. Candia, and the papers shut up. And so the data I gave here is data that can be studied, analyzed, to see the reality of the Welsh sector, and if it's true that 9 out of every 10 gainful farms have disappeared, it's because it's a reality. And so you have to assume that they ruled 34 out of the 40 years of autonomy in Galicia and managed to have the agricultural and livestock sector in a lamentable situation. I've told him several times. In the 1960s and 1970s, Almería province, a land situation similar to that of the worst of Galician provinces, this is a reality. Today the value of agricultural production in Almería is 3,000 million euros a year. While, here, the forest, which I think should be and should be one of the keys to the Greek economy, receives about 300 million euros a year; that is, two thirds of the Greek surface -- which means the Greek forest -- produces ten times less than the province of Almería. So it's not just what we get from Europe, it's how we put political guidance on getting sectors to benefit. [[Applause]] I agree, Mr. Counsellor, that an important effort must be made for the ecodesigns to collect the Greek sensibility, especially in those two extended echoes, of sawmills, which I found -- and another day I was involved in a colloquium with one of the general subdirectors, precisely, because we were looking for the formula of including those issues that are necessary for Galicia-- And so I'm also positive about how these environmental practices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u57	You've got to go finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u58	...go on the way that the stockholdings can pick it up. And finally, the subject of the RDPs. I'd like you to be there, where it is your question, who are really involved in fighting against the depopulation of rural areas and the gainful farms. They're not to take the broadband to industrial polygons, nor to rural clues that don't lead anywhere, children's parks or water parks, they're for our rurals, so they don't give up. [[Applause]] And finally, derived from what the counselor said, it's time they say they're going to participate, they say it's from the bottom to the top, since when did you do this? Spain, in the process of drafting the Strategic Plan, gave voice to civil society with structured debates, congresses, continuous interrelationship with the interlocutors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u59	You have to finish, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u60	...social and bodies representing civil society, specific website, participation mailbox, and so on. You've made smaller contracts with entities to develop the Council's strategy, don't put that face on me, it's a reality. Do you ask the gainful what their needs are?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u61	Mr. Seco, you've finished your shift, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u62	... never, absolutely never. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u63	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the fold, by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Aira Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Candia, hold on for a minute, that's my turn. Well, I think you're giving me the reason so many times that the postulates about the People's Party's Landing come down to the BNG's programmatic level; I understand that's the case, it's not for any other reason. So, as for us to hear how well advised you are, you know we've agreed deeply on that. With respect to ecosystems, we're better, we're better, we're better, we're worse! Because if we don't get rid of that CAP negotiation. It must be remembered that afterward the demands for compliance with the eco-systems must also be reasonable, and not put farmers into millionaire investments, which are always on credit and other issues. In the case of the eligibility coefficient for shrubs, its application is what makes us still less eligible surface, because the one that's out there. Secondly, I want to tell you about my village. You know I'm from the Intius, that you have in Transcastro a model village. I live in a place called Calvos, the parish of Vilasuto. My place is falling and disinhabiting. I understand that maybe I can move to Trascastro, but it's not natural, natural would be able to live in my place. [[Applause]] With regard to the digitization of the comarcal agricultural offices, it's very good, and it takes the initiative, but it has to have people working inside them, because there are offices that are closed for a good part of the week, which I don't know if digitizing them is what's going to solve the problem. With regard to the tutorialization of the development of new incorporations, I want you to answer who's going to appoint tutors, because you don't have officers in the offices, so I don't know, you already told me. Will they set up an ecosystem payment for reducing the risk of fires, also for coexistence with the wolf? Of course, it's an important problem, and the Environmental Council is also being a radical anti-coloxist, renouncing its powers to pay for the damage caused by the wolf attack, and this is something that makes winning suffer. On the other hand, web participation is very good. In fact, it opened a portal on the Middle Rural Page, I don't know if it deserved a press release like the 165,000 hectares that are going to be a useful agrarian area eligible for the CAP. Well, what we've been asking you since BNG is that you're committed to the German farm. The 5% increase in Feder funds is well requested, but here we have budgeting and budgeting must be made available to rural people in a sense and in a way; and of course, more balanced, as you said. We have to look at what I think a little bit outside of model villages and agroforestry polygons, because outside of them there is life, and I live in rural areas and I'm one of those lives. I wanted, without ending this last one that's left, to tell you about a new model of CAP. This small CAP is coming to an end, this CAP does not meet the needs of the agricultural sector or cover a decent income for farmers, it is not simplified, it is increasingly complex. So we should have a new CAP that ensures decent income levels for farmers in the agricultural sector, where there is a true distribution that compensates for territorial inequalities, but also gender inequalities, quantifying and evaluating the situation to take appropriate references, so that there is a fundamental correction of inequality. So these aids have to be linked to agricultural activity, we have to remove the hectares from the heart of the CAP and put the people who work in the agricultural sector. Then, on the basis of that, establish the aid. We need to reduce the imbalances in Community agriculture, in particular by enabling peripheral areas like Galicia to develop their productive capacity in those branches where they have comparative advantages. A more equitable distribution with criteria of social progress in the CAP funds, because there's a lot of talk about a social CAP, but I haven't just seen it materialized. It must then recover effective public instruments which contribute to the regulation of the markets financed from Community budgets. It is very sad that producers who are not in the assembly chain are not rewarded with profits for the sale of their products. So it gives the impression that the CAP is more interested in financing those who trade with these products and pay them at very low prices than in maintaining decent incomes for farmers and farmers and landowners. So, this is very important, I think this CAP for Galicia is lost, at least on its first pier, we'll see what they do with the second pier. We're going to stay among the most disadvantaged communities, too. So we have to think that we have to save the next CAP. And for now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs. Candia López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u66	Counsellor, I don't know if you've noticed, but if Mrs. Aira wants to move to Trascastro, or she looks at Trascastro as a better place to live in the Incio, indirectly, in a very hidden way, she's had a pyropo that the model villages are actually consolidating, right? [[Applause]] Allow me also, of course, a greeting to the neighbors of the Incio and also to his mayor. Mr. Seco, how are we not going to assume that we rule!, how are we not going to assume that we rule many years in Galicia if we do so for the most wonderful exercise of democracy! Which, moreover, in our case must be the absolute majority, and we are absolutely proud. What you don't assume is that they're in the opposition, and especially why they're still in the opposition. And tell me that the problems of people are solved with political guidance, that a representative of the Socialist Party in Galicia is telling me right now, with the political orientation that the State Government is taking, is leading to insecurity at the workplaces in Alcoa, insecurity at the jobs in Ence, insecurity in Vestas. Please think before you get into a debate that had to end with consensus, before you do these provocations. And I'll tell you something else. He said that the Socialist Party thinks of people and not territories, and I sincerely believe that they are wrong, wrong right now, and I've made decisions that are currently messing with the future of a region and the future of many families. But I am also going to take out another matter that affects a lot and has to do with the CAP, and that Mrs Aira was also referring to, which is unfortunately confirmed, by listening to Parliament, even to you, that in that case they seemed to be supporting our claims and we checked on September 20 as the Official Gazette of the State approved and entered into force the protection on the list of wild species in a special protection regime for the wolf. I also say it from a neighborhood where it's becoming a security problem, not just an attack on the cattle. Well, when that was the case, and when you, instead of being more or less coherent, went out the next day blaming the Hunta for the abandonment of the livestock, instead of learning -- and then I have to value coherence, which sometimes in politics still exists -- of its counterpart in Asturias, the principal Gandary Director of the Principality, who resigns once he sees that the Government of Spain heeds the demand of the autonomous community. This is clear and brings the collation to the position that the Socialist Party can also have in the negotiation of the CAP, which is undoubtedly what brings me here today. [[Applause]] And this is where I pray you that an effort, that you do management, that you make use of the representativeness that you have, that, although you are the third political force, in the next elections you can become the second, if you really succeed and keep working. And I'm going to put in value -- the second, the first, not, Counselor, you know!--, I'm going to put in value, of course, this last part, the echoes, which will also have a very important role in the aids that our owners will receive, but also in the second pillar. I believe that the Counsellor has listed several initiatives, which I invite you in addition to being able to redraft a non-law proposal together, which seeks to promote initiatives for land recovery, which seek the incorporation of young people up to 41 years old, but also in that very important age range between 41 and 55, so that they can reorient their professional life. In this position of reinforcement and titration of agricultural offices, of course, all support, adviser, support for ecological production, support for line recovery, aid for environmental investment in agricultural holdings, and support for those actions in the field of livestock which guarantee the most regarding animal welfare. These are some of the initiatives that have been listed as very positive proposals, with very good welcome in our field, and of course, Counsellor, continue to strive to the end, to correct that which is not yet achieved and also with total humility, but I think it is fair to thank you for the achievements achieved so far. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candia. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to note... that I was watching now that we were much faster this time than we were in May. Don't be afraid, I won't extend much on this last turn, but I'd like to comment on some questions. Mr. Seco developed a curious theory of how he has to lobby for Galicia, and for the interests of the Greek farmers and livestock, and he said to me: why doesn't he lobby with Andalusia and Castile-Leon? Home!, if it is precisely those who have a model totally contrary to what is in Galicia and in the cantabria... If we believe in that model, I'm content with who needs to defend the interests of the Greek farmers and gain. Also, of course, if you like, the Galego Nationalist Block, because here is not a programmatic issue, here is a question of common sense and of supporting our farmers and livestock. So I understood that with whom we had to work and there are no party issues, because you yourself mentioned it, it was with those who had the model just like ours, Atlantic Spain, the cantabria horn, and there we did lobby, and we did achieve a lot of achievements. And I'm not going to take credit, but it's a shared merit of the four autonomous communities, except for the permissible surface, which is a specific achievement of Galicia, among other things because the other autonomous communities of the Cantabrian cornice don't have that problem. Mr. Seco, we can talk about convergence. I don't agree very much on the line, but I understand it's an imposition of Europe, and we'll have to work against it. We'll have to work on that line of convergence, of course, in this period. But if we go to convergence and don't regulate our surface, we're going to lose a lot of money for our farmers and livestock. So I'd like to get out of here, that there was a recognition that this was a historical demand from Galicia. All the advisors before me took it and couldn't get it, among other things using that lobby with the cantabria horn and negotiating with the Ministry, because we reached that goal, because the Ministry also, and the minister told me, understood it was a matter of common sense. They certainly didn't know all the hectares that, having the right to charge the CAP, they're not charging in Galicia, and we could talk about what the causes are, but the reality is that. As I tell you, 30 points below the national average, 164,000 hectares, and if you follow things like this, 20 million euros additional for our farmers and livestock. And besides, if you realize, it's the best defense against convergence. When I'm going to converge and we pay the same for a hectare in Castile The Mancha or Andalusia -- to change the game -- that in Galicia, or we have more surface or we lose a lot of money. On the subject of echoes, Mr. Seco, don't worry about what we had to get close to because we're getting closer last week, I told you on the previous shift. I thank the Ministry here clearly for the sensitivity he had with the demands of the cantabria horn in the echoes, all that Mrs. Aira mentioned is needed at a meeting last week, Mrs. Aira, we have to send the tokens and I understand that there will be no doubt about it, because they already told us in the minutes of last week's meeting in front of all the autonomous communities that you assumed what you were talking about, especially in what is the permissible surface for the different echoes. I fully agree with what you say, also said on the second shift, that this can't be any greater demands for farmers and livestock than through the management of their surface are already doing that management of the territory, and they're being the largest environmental defenders right now in Galicia from the point of view of their activity. I understood what Mrs. Candia said, but I also understood that she might be asking me to have another model village in the Incio. I remind you that, according to the law, you have to process it through the municipality, we have no drawback, I have appointed the parish of Calvos, but I will then stay with the village. Let's see, somewhere we have to start, we have 30,000 villages in Galicia, we'll have to get back, of course, what we can, and we'll bet, and it's done that you were asking with the money of the second floor that we didn't get to all the municipalities, but we're focusing a little bit on activity. So that's what we're trying to do, looking for objective criteria where we should put that agricultural and gainful activity. And also with a very important criterion, for me, of choosing places that can help us in the prevention of fires. You said you supported technical advice. Man, it couldn't be any other way, I like it too, because between, other things, I lived the times of Agrarian Extension, and talked about what a personal lack of OACs, I'm telling you that these days you know that you're doing a lot of work in many comarcas agricultural offices, we did a survey of the OAC staff to see exactly that specialization, to where you wanted to go, that is, they worry about knowing in what they're experts to our people to be able to guide you towards our farmers and livestock. But as for the staff, I'm just telling you that the comarcal agrarian offices, ladies and gentlemen, today there are 200 veterinarians and almost 100 agronomist engineers, of busy posts, not those in the RPT. It's not as much a question of lack of personnel as these people, because of what you said too, of what are the requirements of Community agricultural policy in subsidies, are losing much time in being controlling improvement plans, incorporation aids, and what we did during this year was precisely improving -- and it's next year -- and it's going to be in the next publication -- substantially that order so important to our rural Galician, robotizing it so that we can release as much of our staff as possible in comarcian agricultural offices. Of course, I, and I clearly say it here -- it's going on the billboards of the second pillar --, I bet for public counseling. We have 69 comarcal agricultural offices, to which, by the way, we will add a mobile comarcal agricultural office, and we will not lose that human capital and the means we have in the territory, and we will bet clearly on them and see with money from the posture, and from the recognition of the second pillar. I also tell you that the tutor is going to be in the comarcal agrarian offices, I would miss that with these people we have we couldn't use them as tutors too! I'll be done by now. As I began in my first intervention, if I were allowed to sum up mode, speaking of facts, and I think I've been talking about facts since I started my first shift. The facts can't be denied, they're a reality. The reality that brought me here today was to realize, and I hope you will assume that we are probably the Council that most came to your autonomic Parliament to explain the CAP, this is the third time we have talked about the CAP, and we want to live up to the state of negotiations for the next CAP at 2023-2027, and show that the Union is making an effort here to defend farmers and farmers. Look, at the beginning of the CAP negotiations, we started from a position where the Ministry, he moved on it, and he encouraged a model change of the CAP that would be very beneficial to the entire cantabria cornice. And it is true that there have been pressures, let's see, of course, that there have been them, each one has to get out of his own, and there in these pressures the Ministry has succumbed, and obviously he has had to take into account other autonomous communities. I've said this since loyalty, but I'll have to get to it, Mr. Seco, those who think as much as I do, I'm not going to get to Andalusia when it's Andalusia that's defending its agricultural model and winning. So what was going to be a big change, at least at first, and there we would agree safe with the Galego Nationalist Block, I repeat because it is still because it benefited the yellow farmers and farmers we could agree on, that CAP model that was explained to us that it benefited the exploitations of the North Peninsula, i.e. small and medium-sized farms of a professional nature, family basis and also on a territorial basis, remained in a maintenance of the status quo so we had to negotiate with the object of exit, keeping that status quo, the best possible unemployed. And the fruit of this Galician work, and I repeat that here I share extraordinary merits with the rural councillors of the other three autonomous communities, the fruit of the alliance also with the cantabrian cornice, we have a reinforcement of the aid associated with the milk vaccine. It is mainly the milk cow in the cantabria horn, and that means Galicia, which has 40% a national, 12 million euros a year, each year, for our biggest owners, and the demand that I am not tired of repeating and I think that all beyond the parliamentary debate we have to assume as an important and specific achievement of Galicia, that recognition of the deficit in the eligible area. 164,000 acres that today are among the hectares that are working our glovers are planted with corn, and that are not collecting CAP rights. If all of this, through the national reserve, is achieved in this period, because they would account for some 20 million national euros, and they would be, Mr Seco, the best defense against convergence. If the rights go down, we'll have to go up the hectares, if we don't lose a lot of money. In the echoes, I told you, I'm pleased with the government negotiation last week, we couldn't comment on it before because it was a meeting last Thursday last week, now I hope that the chips will be collected clearly. Although today this design of the CAP does not comply with the requests made by Galicia and the cantabrian cornice to the Ministry, nor is it our model of the CAP, the momentum and negotiating capacity of the Greek Government has made that we have achieved those advances which I previously transferred to it, I think it is quite clear in the appearance. So there's nothing left to say about these facts. And I'm going to move them, at the end, that, in the face of the repeated criticisms of May, we provide information at all times that was Galicia's position, looking for that transparency that is always necessary in political action, and I think that transparency and that way of working was a background -- and I thank the parliamentary groups -- of the approval of the GNP that was made in Commission 7th of September 3, which we practically collected everything we wanted to do in May and we were unable to do. And I want to finish by rescuing that request for consensus. There are still issues to profile, and therefore I transmit to them -- as the spokesperson for the People's Party also said -- that we are open from the German Government to maintain the meetings that are necessary for parliamentary groups. And, if it was required, ask them all to support some kind of pronouncement -- it could be a GNP -- of the Greek Parliament to support the Government of Galicia in the final defence, in the defence of interests, the peculiarities and characteristics of our agriculture and gain. That's why I'm sure you're joining us all. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u69	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to point 4, motions. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme González Iglesias, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the naval sector of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u70	This motion was amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. [[(G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Ms Noelia Otero Lago, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to this Bureau the following amendment to this motion:Amendment of amendment The resolution of the motion must be replaced by the following: Take urgently the measures necessary to ensure the continuity of the work of the Barreras shipyard, with direct public participation to consolidate the yard and generate confidence in the market, as well as to respond to the serious crisis that the entire Vigo naval sector and its region suffer.2o. To put into operation a plan to reactivate the private naval sector of the Vigo River, strengthening the public-private collaboration announced on so many occasions by the Autonomic Government, turning to the Next Generation funds to give economic capacity to this plan.3o. Contributing with autonomous funds to finance the debt of the Barreras yard to the same extent that the Government of Spain is doing, linking industrial funding to the maintenance of staff paintings, as well as a formative plan that facilitates its re-qualification.4o. To create the Naval Bureau for the Vigo River, with the participation of the Galician Union, the Government of the State, as well as the most representative trade union and business organizations to seek effective solutions that help the continuity of the sector."]] To formulate the motion, Mrs González Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u71	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. The crisis in the shipbuilding industry in the Vigo River is evidence. Far are the shipyards with the grads full of ships of the 1970s, in which Galicia coopes 5% of the world market. Far is the thousands of workers who collapsing on Beiramar Avenue at the exit of the shipyards. Now there are empty steps and exits from workers to contaguities that, far from causing jams, cause sadness. Since 2008, where the construction of the Galician ship has been at the forefront of the world for the quality of its work and its experience, the continuous fleets suffering from the colloquium sector in a situation of constant uncertainty. Today the naval sector in the Vigo River is in a very worrying situation, mainly due to the lack of activity on the three largest shipyards: Barriers, San Enrique and Metalships. This situation has led us to lack of industrial policies for the sector by the Government of the People's Party in the Galician Union. In 12 years ahead of industrial policy in Galicia, the Government of Feijóo has not been able to draw a roadmap for a strategic sector for our country, such as shipbuilding and ship repair. The policy for the naval sector of the People's Party over these 12 years is summed up in patches, advertisements and advertisements. A policy -- or rather a lack of policy -- that has led the sector to the situation at the moment. On several occasions in this Parliament, the BNG tried to get the second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor to explain what kind of measures would be taken in this situation. But the only answer we've always received was the same: we will continue to support and accompany the sector; that is to say, to be profiled; something we've been accustomed to in the face of the problems of our country's industry. The few performances we've known up to now didn't work out very well. Specifically, at the Barreras yard his last two performances have been a terrible failure. President Feijóo's live announcement by the TVG of the super contract with Pemex, which was going to be the definitive rescue of the yard, we all know how it ended, with investigation and condemnation for corruption of a manager and a millionaire debt that Ritz Carlton assumed, who was building a luxury cruise on the yard and became a customer to the owner. The solution to this shocking failure was to be Ritz Carlton, whom the president of the Galician board thanked in person -- the director of the chain -- the trust deposited in the construction of the Galician naval. And the hiring of a second cruise in Barreras, proud to mediate this company for these new contracts. He traveled to Miami for these thanks in mediation. Do you know what the result of that trip was? Announcements and publicity, because the reality is that Ritz Carlton just wanted to finish the Ebrima and get rid of Barreras, as proved. Another big fiasco! Barriers are currently free from the burden of workers, without the burden of work, with the workers at home and with a millionaire debt that the assistants have on the edge of the crack. The People's Party goes from failure to failure, and you know why? Because there's no follow-up, because there's no politics. The actions developed so far by the Galician Board are summed up in full-handed job announcements that have never materialized and filled the pockets of private shareholders with publicly lost money, in the form of loans and advances. BNG says it's enough, that economic support has to bring together a direct involvement of administrations in companies, it has to be conditional on the participation of the Galician Union. This formula will consolidate the yard and generate confidence in the market. In addition, in the current situation in Barriers will create confidence in potential buyers. Otherwise, we run the risk of repeating the sudden failures of previous Barriers sales to Pemex, first, and then to Ritz Carlton. A third failure would be lethal to the shipyard and catastrophic to the naval sector in the Vigo River. In the previous plenary session Vice-President Conde told us textually -- it's in the Journal of Sessions -- "We are clear that we are in favour of participating in the capital of Barreras if the industrial partner with the ability to develop that project considers it appropriate, and we show our commitment to do so." What the BNG doesn't understand is, if the People's Party is in favour of participating in the capital of Barras, why don't they? Why don't they condition the aid to that participation? Why are you willing to grant help without control of the use of those aids? The Galician Union must adopt an active position in the sale of Barreras by entering the stock market and working in search of a buyer with a solvent project that stabilizes the naval sector in the Vigo River and guarantees its future. This is the first action immediately and urgently to be carried out by the German Government. And then spread a strong public intervention to drive the formation of a public-private holding company between different shipyards, auxiliary companies and ship transformers in the Vigo River. To establish synergies that allow the development of common projects, processes and investments. Only then will we be able to recover the strength of a naval sector that has lost nearly 9,000 jobs in the last 12 years, which was at the global vanguard for the quality of its work and its experience. Who lost the best professionals in the sector, who emigrated because of lack of work. And a sector that has an ecosystem of unique helpers and providers and is disappearing. We're a country with enormous potentials, in shipbuilding as well. We have to take advantage of them and not to profile them, without doing anything, in the face of the decline in strategic sectors for Galicia as the naval industry. We must set up the ship's table for the Vigo River with the participation of the Gaulza Union, the Government of the State, as well as the most representative trade union and business organizations to look for effective solutions that block the continuity of the sector. It is necessary to involve all the actors involved in the sector in order to trace the roadmap for shipbuilding and repair in the Vigo River. Turns it into a strategic sector for the reindustrialization of Vigo and its region. Let's remember that the latest survey of active population indicates that Vigo has lost 6,200 industrial jobs in the last 12 years, the 12 years that the People's Party has been ruling in the Galician Union. As a strategic industry for our country, it is necessary for the Government of Greece to master a project that is consistent with all members of the sector, all trade unions, employers, and the Government of the State. To mark the course leading the naval sector to the first positions on the world market and can compete on equal terms, a project that guarantees workload and employment. If this is the case, the BNG -- as Mr. Conde asked -- will be supporting him. But for that, the People's Party, which governs Galician Union and has industry competences, will have to get to work, will have to rule for the future and leave the policy of improvisation and patches to which we are used. The Greek Government has to lead the exit of the yard crisis by entering the yard's stockyard. And he has to lead a future project for the construction and repair of ships in the Vigo River. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. González. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u73	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Last July we spoke in this plenary, precisely, about the naval sector of Vigo, putting the focus, in that case, on the situation of the extinct Vulcan and the new concession on these lands. In that debate, since the People's Party, the work I was doing was defended -- they said -- and I had done the Government of the Union for the vigue industry and for the disappeared Vulcan. Well, we arrived in the autumn and the X-ray of the sector, which was already worrying, being realistic and not pessimistic, now it's even more so. I talked about grief at that time, I talked about grief because I had to talk about Vulcan as such in the past, and the concern about the paralysis of activity in the river, and the pitfalls that were also living in the new concession of the new company in those lands. We were accused of pessimists and of having no faith in the sector, nothing further than reality. What's coming is the moment, once and for all, of assuming reality, and that doesn't mean -- eye! -- to resign, not much less; but, of course, to reverse this situation or we become aware of the severity of the desperate SOS that are being launched by workers, trade unions and auxiliary industry, or the inaction can still come more expensive, if it fits. After years of disillusionment it is necessary to work, to do it quickly and seriously, of course, from the hands of the sector, or numbers and expectations can no longer be more alarming. The three largest shipyards in the Vigo River are found without a workload in either the short or the medium term, the three. The two largest private factories in the state, in a critical situation. The old Vulcan, liquidated, animated -- just like the yard workers who are now still waiting for the house -- the Vulcan liquidation by this Union Government. And sitting also a very delicate precedent for the rest of the industry and potential investors. Because, after the entry of San Enrique, the company is confronted with the annulment of the port concession and the impossibility of resuming its activity in a very complicated situation. To make good that Vulcan winding up, that was the decision you made. And, in case it was little, then when an investor appears, what was the message they moved? By making it difficult first to enter the presidency of the Harbour Authority; and by making it difficult, then, to use that concession. All this -- we insist -- sit down, you felt a very serious precedent, or happened to Vulcano. The unions and the company committee warned then and now there are many and many who wonder: Is this really the best way to generate credibility for future and potential investors in the naval sector to live with the situation we have right now in Barreras? We have this Barreras crisis right now, with a sale on the table and in the middle of a temporary job regulation, and Metalships without a workload. According to union estimates, this last stop between the two yards, Barriers and Metalships, in a sector that was already touched, has caused the destruction of another 1,500 jobs. We're talking about a strategic sector of the productive fabric of a whole region and a city. This crisis threatens to drag down the already played auxiliary industry. According to Asime, the German auxiliary employer, the naval closed last year 2020 in our community with a 30% reduction in billing. Recruitment of new ships declined by 75 % and this resulted in a 33 % decrease in the order portfolio. But every time we talk about the naval sector we still defend the good doing and the good work of the Industry Council in all these years. Look, if we compare the photograph of the sector in 2009 and that of now, the comparison is absolutely demolition. Data from the Ministry of Industry are located in 5,361 direct workers who are members of Social Security on 1 July. This is the lowest figure since there are statistics available for workers affiliated to Social Security directly in the naval sector. Neither with the double recession, nor the creditors' contests, nor with the tax lease crisis, the naval was so bad. This crisis is much worse. They all recognize it less, of course, in the Government of Galicia, which is competent, on the other hand, in this sector. Since 2009, in a decade or so, 4 out of every 10 direct jobs have been destroyed in the vicar. In this context of crisis, therefore, the future of Barreras, in fact, is crucial to reverse this situation and calls for it to be done already. Thanks to public aid, the yard canceled the financial debt incurred for building Evrima with tax funds read released in May, 43 million euros. Also the public funds account unlocked by the Ministry of Industry. The Council of Ministers validated in August this payment of EUR 23.6 million to pay the debts to the supplier companies. The Executive, in addition, shielded -- as it was necessary to do -- those aids so that they can only be used for the payment of debts with auxiliary companies. But what is needed is an urgent plan of viability, we cannot continue in the debate, in the eternal political debate. It is a sector, as we said, completely strategic, which is dying and which is wondering how it is possible that the Government of the Union will never make the slightest self-criticism with this data. There's never the slightest self-criticism. [[Applause]] They ended, in addition -- it's another merit of the Industry Council these years -- with the collective dialogue that characterized this sector. We have to make and retrieve that table and that dialogue, indeed, counting on them, with the unions, with the auxiliary industry, with the cluster. They made these years sad decisions -- that's right -- that left us mortgages with a Mexican name. The arrival and entry of Pemex not only made a mistake about the order wallet they promised and the number of jobs that it would generate, it never saw that number. But in addition to that decision, I was supposed to hand over the decision-making, the sovereignty of the largest yard we had, by the hands of others. Not only did they allow it but they orchestrated the campaign that took away the decision-making capacity of Barreras from Vigo. One problem that since then assumes that employers or shift companies the only interest that they are showing, indeed, is to finish their boat without any interest in the future, in employment or in the credibility of the yard itself. And until Pemex's arrival, one of the world's most famous shipyards. Right now, without going any further, we have this case of Evrima, a ship that, even before it was finished, they drew out of Vigo. In a single year owned by Ritz-Carlton from the yard, they took the workload out of the city, put an ERTE in and we'll see what happens when they take the ship out of Spain. And by the way, here we show our solidarity with those more than 50 workers who are working right now on Evrima in Santander and who are confined by a bunch of cowards. [[Applause]] From these posts of Pemex, ladies and gentlemen, we now have this situation that we have in Barreras, very complex. In 12 years, the truth is we haven't found a single measure to improve the naval sector of the relevant Vigo River. The sector has also been asking for strategic plan for years, which is so important, that it is the need to invest in infrastructure, but in this case there is an absolute failure of challenge, zero investments year after year, despite the need to request that investment to be competitive in shipbuilding and repair in the Vigo River. A few days ago, President Feijóo said that this plan was needed to reactivate the sector. Welcome, Mr. President, that's what they're complaining about, we've been complaining about, and they've been complaining about trade unions from the industry for months and even years. Because it must be the Union that takes the initiative. They use these skills in industry and act like the tractor that guarantees the activity of the Vigo River shipyards. Let's put -- let's ask again -- a plan for the reactivation of the naval sector is being put in place to strengthen public-private collaboration announced on so many occasions by the self-government. Referring, in addition, to the Next Generation funds to give you that economic capacity. They are also engaged with autonomous own funds to finance the debt of the yard, as is being done from the State Government. Public but always conditional aids, linking industrial funding to staff maintenance, as well as a training plan that facilitates their re-qualification. They use the Igape mechanisms to give impetus to shipyards through internationalisation programs in the search for new contracts. This parliamentary group will support any of these measures, but they must, without further delay, take letters in the matter, because we are attending a strategic sector that is agonising before our eyes; many workers, welders, pipes, boilers... are currently out there, working in other communities or converted to other professions. The younger ones don't see the future, they don't even think about the possibility of working on the ship. This is the merit of the industrial policy of the Galician Union in these years. It's 14 years ago, and it's figures, it doesn't matter what index we get. We spoke first in terms of employment, of contracts, but we also did what the sector assumed in the German GDP 14 years ago, which is 4.2%. Now it's not half that figure. Ten years ago, the ship was grouped, pressed, because you have, as I said, the merit of breaking down the sectoral exchange model that existed. We need a plan, investments, and the Union needs to take the initiative, contribute to generating the sector. They group and recover this sectoral dialogue that all parties, employers, trade union organizations, administrations set an example, and they call for recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u75	Good morning. Thank you, President. The truth is, among all the documentation I have about the debates that have been raised in this Parliament about the naval sector, about Barreras in this particular case too, about private, public shipyards, about the plans that I have to carry out the Government of Greece or the Government of Spain, the truth, after also talking to many people who know the sector well in Vigo, also journalists who have been working on this subject for time, is that I come to a conclusion, I come to a clear conclusion that, in addition, later, is supported by data and figures. It really is that the Galician Union and the People's Party, and the Government of Feijóo, since 2009, as much as you say, has always been supporting the naval sector with facts, actions and realities. Actions questioned on many occasions by you, by your opposition, but really, actions that call me attention, because often you criticize them, but they really are what you're asking for. And in that conclusion, I also come to another line of reasoning which, in fact, today, between the speeches of the opposition spokespersons, also gives us some reason. Which is that opposition parties always fall into the same mistake, which is the opportunism of motions and non-law proposals on the naval. The small and small debates on this subject and on this term are that their parties always look to the other side, always the other side, and they don't make the self-criticism that they talk about us when they have responsibilities. And this is a very clear case. Barreras is a very clear case. And the interventions, in addition, of the spokespersons of both the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party today have ratified in this rostrum. You speak of self-criticism and today we have a Government of Spain who has made a commitment, of Sepi, in December, that he won in six months and that he has not fulfilled. And they don't make self-criticism and they don't even even name that commitment and that money committed by a government of Sánchez, the Socialist Party and Podemos, a political formation that criticized, shouted, and accused Feijóo of having all the negative policies against the naval and today has not one Member in this House. And I'm talking about Podemos, who is today in the Government of Spain. Look, the investments mobilized since then, since 2009 -- I've been talking since 2009, when Feijóo entered the government -- the investments mobilized in the naval sector are going through and around 100 million euros and they've been fruiting, of course they've been producing fruit. Because all this time, all this time of what you're talking about, of that horrible time, it's been so annoying that the naval sector was in that it was the absolute dismantling of the naval sector, thousands of people have been working and working in the naval sector. And it's true that you have better moments and worse moments, but it's true also that the Government of the Galician Union and the People's Party, and the Government of Spain of the People's Party in a period of time has also been very pendant of Barreras and very pendant of the naval sector in Galicia. We have today the motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, the result of an appeal to the Industry Counsellor, who has also given account, and has been questioned in this Parliament, we have a motion that has several points. The first says that the necessary measures are urgently taken to ensure the continuity of the work of the Barreras yard with direct public participation to consolidate the yard. You already believe directly that direct public participation consolidates the yard, but in speeches, both you and the Socialist Party, they also call for an important plan of viability. Do you believe, as is the situation of Navantia now, of the public yard now, that the fact that it actually participates publicly and will directly solve the problem? We believe not, of course we will not support this point. And you say you're responding to the serious crisis in the whole naval sector. It's not a serious crisis, it's a concrete situation that's probably worse than two years ago, because you're comparing from 2009 to 2021, but not from 2009 to 2018. That was also a government where Mr. Feijóo was, that there was no pandemic, that we didn't have this crisis, and that the data were punters all over Spain, that Galicia was taking off all over Spain. And today he's also working to keep this line going and not lose with the pandemic crisis. So now this first point we believe that it has no consistency and that it is, once again, what you've been saying since 2009, whether it's data or something else. The second point is to spread a strong public intervention. I mean, an absolute interventionism, a nationalization of Barreras, which, as I say, having the example of Navantia and seeing in addition to Mrs. Maroto's attitude or Sanchez's own attitude towards the naval and the Navantia, we really believe that this is not a solution for Barreras either, at all, a solution for Barreras. And to create the naval table for the Vigo River, which you've been asking for, the naval table for the Vigo River, on many occasions, when not even the sector itself asked for that naval table, because, really, what matters here are the actions. It's true that we have to talk, we have to talk. The unions, many times, Mrs González, also come to agreements, come to agreements with regard to metal, with respect to the naval sector, and the IGC is often also disarranged. It's very good to talk to each other and come to an agreement, but you can't always come to an agreement. So it's important and actions are important. This motion of the Galician Nationalist Block really doesn't solve or put the Barriers solution on top of the table. Their goal, as always, is to nationalize it and believe that all the problems will be solved, and that's not true because Navantia is now stopped. In a government that you, moreover, support and support. A left-wing government, of Podemos, of PSOE, that you have supported, and that government totally gives its back to the naval sector, totally its back. Well, the PSdeG is presenting an amendment that is practically the same as a motion that was debated in the City Hall of Vigo. It's a motion, as I say, after I've also introduced the People's Party, of having presented the Nationalist Block, in the city, I think it also brings this amendment today as the motion deals with the inactions of the Central Government. The inactions of the Socialist Party, as I said, because here was not named that fundamental non-compliance which was that of Sepi to the naval sector. When SEPI has been rescuing another type of company, when we know of the scandal -- you quote it so that no one can think of anything -- of the Plus Ultra theme, when it has been serving other sectors, but the naval has been completely abandoned and thrown away. It turns out that when we act on the side of the board if we criticize Feijóo: the worst, it hurts all things... but when we make an amendment, or we make a motion, we ask exactly the same thing, really. What we can suppose of the roadmap you put on the table is very similar to what you're doing in Galicia, because you're asking for everything you're doing. But when Mr. Sánchez reigns, or when he rules now Sánchez, but the Socialist Party in Madrid, the naval sector is completely abandoned. Barriers is a reference, it's a point, it's, of course, a very important yard in Vigo. But the private yards are many, and I always repeat the same: you here put on the table the yards that have crises, I'm going to put on the table the yards that, like Rodman, for example, ends... I read the other day in the press that presented a profit of 20 million euros. Because here, for many, for us not, for the People's Party not, but for many here there are differences between us. I can congratulate Freire, Armón, Cardama, who are signing contracts, with difficulty, because we are in a pandemic year, with difficulty, but with the same line of help and support that the Galician Union has with all the shipyards. So it's important to talk about everyone and it's important to recognize the need for the naval sector to continue to work and function well in Vigo and its area, and also in Ferrol and also in the public sector. That's why you want to nationalize a private yard in Vigo so that it's empty as the Ferrol yard is. Because the Government is now in the hands of the Socialist Party. Well, Mrs Otero, I have to tell you in particular that you can be nostalgic, indeed, we are all very nostalgic but not to be profiled, and I insist, as a representative of the Socialist Party, that this speech that you have made here, with all wisdom and consistency, could pass it directly to Mrs Maroto. I'm saying, don't go through the Socialist Party of Vigo because he's absolutely profiled. You transmit this to him, and when I go to Vigo, which is true that he is very attentive to trade, that he is also attentive to the naval sector, because it is important, and I don't see that Mrs. Maroto has any interest in focusing on supporting the naval sector, neither Mrs. Maroto nor Mr. Sánchez. Look, the pre-pandamy figures... because you compare directly to this year, which is true, we don't do self-criticism, we do all self-criticism, because it's true this is a complicated year, it's a year when you have to start to pick up a crisis that we had with the copper pandemic.... Pre-pandamy figures believe that invoicing in the naval sector was over 2,000 million euros and that it was 3.5 % of the Welsh GDP. Therefore, an important sector supported by a People's Party's Union Government. Employment amounted to 13,500 people and 90% of the goods produced were to export. So I work for Vigo, for his metropolitan area and also for the port of Vigo. And the final end, as we say, always employment, employment, with plans and investment mobilized, as I say, to encourage and enhance public-private investment, which is the important thing. The counsellor told him last week, when you called him in, he told him that he had a commitment to the most clear ship and he always acted with rigour, transparency and responsibility and that he also had an agreement with the central government, an agreement with the central government to work together by compromising a stake of 8 million euros and hoping that the government would comply with its departure and response from the PPE, which was 30 million euros. What did he do? The only thing he did was apply the regulations and comply with the commitment already established in the ship's financing operation, which, as you know, is regulated in Royal Decree 874/2017, which states that the Government must pay the difference between the type of interest granted on the date of signature of the ship's construction contract and the type of commercial reference interest of the euro on the date of granting the credit. So it was 23 million euros that we still don't know if it's going to be to pay the Barriers' debts to the assistants, which I would also like to value here the lines that set in motion for the Galician Union, two lines of support to the auxiliary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u77	...because that's where the job is and you have to keep it. Let us hope that we can go back together, work hand in hand so that the naval sector will go ahead, of course Barreras, Vulcano and Metalship, commend those who continue to work and that all, on equal terms, receive the same support from the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, who do not have it, as they are being received by the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author of the motion, Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u79	Well, I want to start this replica shift by sending all the support from the BNG, our solidarity with the CEO of the IGC Business Committee in Barreras, who was fired and is fighting for his readmission. [[Applause]] Sometimes I have the strange feeling that, rather than being in the Galician Parliament, when it comes to the Galician Union, it is demanded that the Galician Union be in the Congress of Deputies, because it seems that we have come here to ask the Minister, I don't know what. Mrs Egerique, you have Members in Madrid who have not transferred a single proposal, a single claim, or an initiative on Barriers to the Congress of Deputies, do so. Ask the minister all those questions at the Congress of Deputies. They have all the tools to do it. [[Applause]] Here we've come to call on the Galician Union to demand it to do its work, because they have to do their work. And the work of the Galician Union is to lead a project for the galley ship that leads it to the future, which guarantees its viability. And of course we're very happy that there are shipyards in the Vigo River with an important workload and that you're making them have a future, but you know what's going on? That's what BNG is asking for, the shipyards who have a workload, because their future depends on all the auxiliary companies as well, who can break up if Barreras, Metalship and Vulcan break up. So it's not just a request from the BNG, it's a request from the sector, we have to guarantee the survival of the auxiliary industry and for that we have to exist these three large shipyards. It doesn't mean that we're not happy or that we don't seem like the rest of the yards have work, of course, yes, it would just be missing. He says our motion doesn't provide solutions. What I'm sure, I'm sure, I'm sure it won't do anything and I'm not going to solve anything is to stand still, stand up and do absolutely nothing but put money in the pockets of private shareholders and wait for the Holy Spirit to come down and solve the problem of the naval sector. We have all the competences in industry, let's make the naval sector in Galicia have a future, join the naval table in the Vigo River, dialogue with all the actors involved and draw a roadmap that leads us to a strong naval sector like we had years ago. You tell us there were good and bad times. The reality is that since 2009 it's been in decline, at least at least, and we're just like we are, Mrs. Egerique. And that we can't be blessed that this has only been for two years. No, lie, a lot more years ago, not two years ago from Pemex, we've been a lot longer. And on top of that we were blessed that until two years ago this was okay? Well, I'm sorry, but BNG doesn't, and he's never gonna. Here we are to find solutions, and that's what BNG proposes. He proposes to draw a road map together with all the actors involved in the sector so that the naval sector in the Vigo River will have a future, and that's where our motion goes, but it's not the cost of releasing money to full hands, which ultimately never solve the problems. And I fail to stand on the Socialist Party's motion. We're not going to accept it, because precisely they're not agreeing that they're still filling companies' pockets with money and help and deep-lost subsidies, because they're finally not solving the problem. What BNG says is that these aids, those subsidies, that public money has to have control over administrations. There has to be a participation in companies to ensure that this money is destined for the viability of these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u80	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. We'll stop the meeting until 16 hours. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u81	Good afternoon. Agenda Change We resumed the session with the accumulated debate of two motions, in particular the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, initiative of Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores, and that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado. Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of primary care [[motion pursuant to Question No 20679, published in BOPG No 193, 31.8.2021, and discussed in plenary meeting of 14.9.1921]] The following is added to the previous one: Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the policy of the Greek Government in the field of face-to-face in primary care [[motion as a consequence of Interpellation No. 16688, published in BOPG No. 152, 9.6.2021 and discussed at the plenary meeting of 14.9.1921]] Amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group to the motions was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u82	First of all, by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u83	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. In the previous plenary session, we asked the counsellor about the situation of primary care in Galicia; we told him that we wanted this first plenary to be the protagonist of this primary care, because it is one of the greatest problems and concerns of the Greeks and the Greeks. We asked him what measures he would put in place to ensure that primary health care was normalized, to remove waiting lists, so that the presence of care could be normalized and what he would do to stop mistreating professionals. Of course, the answer has made us even more concerned, right? Because the answer has been what they've been doing for years, which is to blame others who are valuing the measures to be taken. And he asked us to give him time to put in place measures after 12 years of People's Party government. Time because --textually-- in 2018 started work to count on a plan to address primary care reform. I say, in case someone's bewildered: since 2018 it's been three years, it's been three years since 2018, 12 years of the People's Party's government, I say, because sometimes there may be someone who's been cheated and actually thinks it's a very short-lived situation. What I want to tell you today is that primary care in Galicia was very seriously ill before the covid-19 pandemic, for having been subjected since 2019 to a continuous bleeding of economic and human resources, cuts, cuts and cuts, was the roadmap, the permanent recipe of the People's Party. And the consequence is that, from this extreme gravity in which primary care was before the covid-19 for not having paid attention, nor taking the necessary measures, it has derived in primary care which is now agonized and which is in critical state, in the ICU, and that is the reality, is the reality not by causality, but by an ideological choice of the People's Party to convert something as essential, a public service as essential as health and, in particular, the jewel of the crown, primary care, into a business niche for private health. This is, of course, a consequence of abandonment and disinterest. And I insist that it's not by chance, and the data are there, the data are there and we see how in Galicia investment in primary care is at the state queue, we're from the autonomous communities that least invest in primary care, and this is a graph, directly from the Ministry's health expenditure statistics about the year 2019, which is the last year where there's data, where it's clearly seen that this green line is the average primary care expenditure in the Spanish state, and this green here is the expenditure that Galicia does in primary care, just a 12, when the average in the Spanish state is 14, and both the one and the other far away from 25% that advises all studies and any expert person in primary care. [[Mrs. Prado Cores shows a chart.]] And of course, with fewer resources, primary care needs cannot be met. And the severity is also not only this data, but the 12% that remained static, but that as it was increasing, less than necessary, of course, public health budgets in Galicia, it turns out that primary care is practically maintained at the same levels as the year 2019, while the public health and hospital care set increased by more than 10 points. And that shows that the People's Party has no interest in improving the situation of a structural problem, because the situation of public health in Galicia and that of primary care is a structural problem, not a conjunctural problem derived from the pandemic of coward 19 but comes from a distance, and that has only made it worse all that time. And during the pandemic, they closed consultancies, reduced their attention, turned from present to telephone service without sufficient means, created access barriers, extended the waiting lists even further, reduced home visits, all of this due to lack of resources. Because all these measures all they did was hide -- or they wanted to hide -- the lack of resources, because while it's telephone attention there are no groups of people -- not in all health centers, in others just waiting for that attention. And it has no interest in the People's Party to solve the problems, neither in the staff frameworks, and it's not looking for suitable solutions or answers to address professional deficits, it's not improving quality, contracts, wages, nor the improvement of working conditions. They do not replace work breaks, neither do vacations nor permissions, nor do retirements. When they cover some retirement actually with temporary, eventual, and short-term contracts, when, of course, they would have to cover it with stability contracts, and the situation is that of professionals full of redouble efforts, of prolongation of days, of interstitutions, and I remind you that the interstitución conceals the reality that a professional has to do the work of three or four, as in some cases he spent this summer, of two doing the work of ten. That is what you, honourable Members and Members of the People's Party call them, intersubstitutions. They're tired, the professionals, of multiplying themselves so they can maintain a minimum quality in health care, which, of course, they can't do. And besides the professionals, it's an unattended population, because with fewer professionals they can't be well cared for, because you can't diagnose the distance, you need professionals to be able to see, play, listen and palpate people who have some kind of pathology to make a proper diagnosis. So after 12 years of harassment and falling into primary care, the People's Party is now pushing on, even, to give a letter of normality that there are waiting lists in primary care, to obstruct the presence of consultation, and that telephone and scarce attention becomes norm, as if there were no alternatives. And since the BNG we have continued to defend clearly that there is no alternative to this roadmap of the People's Party. That's why we came to present in this motion, which comes from the appeal of the previous plenary to the Health Counsellor, measures so that primary care can be that basic care level, to regain the right to worthy health care that is being lost with the Government of the People's Party at the Galician Union. We consider it urgent to implement a strategy that allows us to normalize primary care, which is not the same -- and I have to repeat -- that we go back to the pre-term, massification agenda pandemic, but that we need to take steps to solve the previous and current problems, and these measures are due to professional resources and capacity and to make decisions that will enable us to meet all these demands of the population. We're still asking the People's Party, the Health Council, to stop doing distracting politics, to do what it does and to act, and to stop making every effort to create that story that it's doing its best when it's not true, because if there's another script that's possible. That script, at least to begin with, goes through the point first that the BNG brings in this motion, which is to ensure that all people who need it have the presence care in primary care, that all people who need it, because -- I insist -- you can't diagnose the distance, that there are clear and unified protocols to ensure that there is access and presence in health centers with security and with guarantees, and that telephone care without delay. We can -- we can go back to the usual -- we can buy that speech that there are no family, staff to answer phones, administrative staff or cellphones. Yes, it's on the recruitment lists and it's possible to hire them. We demand to amend the decree governing health and district areas, to create a primary care management structure with budgetary decision-making capacity and to make its own decisions, to increase the budget to 25 %. I remind you of the graph, just 12%, of course, is not enough to meet the demands of primary care, in the immediate 200 million euros. To develop a plan to find out what the situation of professionals is in primary care, which we still don't know what the reality is, how many places there are, what working conditions: fixed, possible, vacant... we need to know what the situation is. Insert service wallet into categories to pay full attention and unload waiting lists. We keep asking ourselves why no categories such as clinical psychology, pharmacy or other specialties are incorporated to manage these agendas and set in motion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u85	... that portfolio of services that recognizes -- ended, president -- the competence map of each professional category so that they can exercise their capabilities without any kind of puppetry and with total autonomy. These measures, which can be implemented immediately, in addition to ending this infamous recruitment policy, would be sufficient, at least immediately, to reverse the situation in which primary care is provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u87	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We've been discussing a lot about primary care, it's getting pretty little done. And this is a problem because, essentially, it's very possible to try to win the debate, but it's much more effective trying to solve the problem. The truth is, there isn't, we don't perceive from our group, a real intention to solve the problems. It's not easy, at all, we don't give him the gain -- as you say -- who has to solve it. But the truth is, it would be much more interesting, at least, to see a real, transformative intention of the system. If half of the effort to seek excuses had been to try to solve the problems, the question would be a little more efficient. Probably not all solved, but yes a little more efficient. Some of the things we've agreed on -- which is also true that in some of us we've recently agreed -- is that there are quite true analyses, not partisans, of how the system is. So little partisans as the Government of Galicia itself has in its power for three years, three years!, a very consolidated document, quite powerful in its analysis, deep, about how the primary care system is, and that we have agreed... the councillor said here, in the interpellation we had in the past plenary, that he shared that document and that he should be the guide. That document -- for which they are not usually in health debates -- is called For primary vertebrate care of the health system, a document prepared by several professionals, commissioned by the Galician Union, and which, therefore, could not have the belief that it is made by dangerous Bolivarians or a Jewish conspiracy against the current government, but basically is an independent document, made by professionals, part of them from the Sergas, part of their external consultants, and which analyzes the system. And as we normally argue that that document might be -- for us it would be -- an element of system agreement, I think it's a good opportunity to once again read what this document says and really know what we're talking about when we talk about primary care. Why? Because in this Parliament, in this plenary session, in committees, and on many occasions by the Government, using the media as propaganda, there are some realities that are not true, and therefore I think it is important to be aware of what professionals are telling us about the system. For example, the impact of complaints and complaints from citizens and professionals; the main problem perceived is that all these complaints have little effect on real changes. On coordination and multidisciplinary, which we have talked about on countless occasions of the need for many professionals, there are no stimulated sessions or coordination and collaboration between them. We're talking about the difficulty of implementing these integrated structures in health areas, of the very important lack of primary care autonomy, and they mention, those people who analyzed the system interviewing tens and dozens of professionals, that the organizations in the health areas do not consider primary care, do not take it into account. A mistrusted attitude of the agencies, literally mentions, I'm reading literally. There are some points that are really hard, because it appeals to this document, to this strategic analysis, to the disconnection between planning and reality. Disconnection between planning and reality. This system is planning very much for the press headlines and very little for the users and users of the system, and this is a problem. We have a medical system in trouble, and there's a government more concerned about looking for excuses than looking for solutions. And before that, we've been working with professional collectives, trade unions, corporate organizations, the different parties we've been through this Parliament, all trying to find some solutions, which the truth is not easy, but they've been written and demanded for a long time. The defense of the Galician Union is that it's already being done, this is a resource, it often happens that solutions are proposed here and not voted because they're already being done. Some of them are curious, because we keep thinking about them year after year, and they're always doing it, and the truth is, it's funny that if they're doing the same thing, they've been doing the same things for years, it gives the feeling. And so we have the fairly well-founded impression, as it is obvious, that you are, the People's Party that supports the Government, a conformist party, and this is a conformist Government, and it's not the system to be conformist. We understand that utopia is not possible; as Galeano said, it is good to know where the horizon is, not to arrive but to go along that path, and that's fine, but we can't design utopias that cause certain frustrations and that this gives rise to other political debates that we've already known. But we can't support conformism either, because primary care is that of everyone, or at least some, because the truth is that there are political groups that perceive that public health care or the public health system is not theirs, but actually it's practically the majority of the population, and we believe in that defense. It is known what the situation is, we present here today a very similar initiative to others that we have presented on other occasions, and it raises questions that are within the analysis of the board itself, within the analyses of the board itself, that the board has accepted as valid, because it has appointed in its direction, in its recent positions, people who participated in these analyses, who signed these analyses. What I just read about the disunity between professionals, the lack of importance of primary care, that there is a mistrusted attitude towards primary within the system, that reality and planning are disconnected, all of this is professional and some of them like Mrs. López-Prado, for example, is now part of the government of the council. So you, implicitly, are also signing this, or they should. So what we are advocating is that, based on this, it is possible to have some agreements within the health system. Because the health system has problems in the short term, but also in the long term. It is not possible to understand how we are doing absolutely nothing, nothing from this government, knowing that within four or five years we will have a very serious, very serious problem with health personnel, because it is ending the working life of many of them, who have come in a very close moment, the health professionals have had a very massive entry in certain years, very condensed, and so when the retirement stages of these professionals arrive, we will have a serious problem. If those who aren't pending all day in the system, because they're on the other topics, they're aware that we have a staff problem today, especially in primary care, that we have, you can't imagine what we're going to have in four, five, six, very seriously! Why? Because they're going to retire a huge professional furnace. But we know this today, but we knew it two years ago, 4 years ago, 6 years ago, 8 years ago, 10 years ago, Galicia was able to form 150 family medicine professionals and gave up, gave up voluntarily, didn't want to form them. And he could form 130 family and community nursing professionals and quit, quit. And that's what happens when you make decisions that you see in the long term. You thought, we'll be back at that moment, but it's impossible now, because a healthcare professional costs many years to form it -- a doctor around 10 years -- So we have a very serious problem and there is no one making a decision, they're making a lot of decisions to save the headline tomorrow, and that in strategic and electoral terms is profitable, but in terms of the system it's a disaster and therefore we have a very serious problem today in the system. We bring the proposal to compromise and to agree, okay? On the bottom of what you yourselves assumed as valid, deal with the necessary strategic solutions. It means putting time limits on them, putting money on them, because it's not possible without money. Of course, the solution to asking for more is always easy, but there is a possibility of extracting them, and there is a possibility of reorienting them. There are also some decisions about it, and we propose to wake him up. Why? Because tomorrow morning we'll have a problem that's going to touch a lot of other people, none of us here in just a few years, unless somebody thinks they're here within 40 years or so ruling, I don't have that intention, I already have almost 40, and within 40 years I hope to be something else. In a certain time there will be people who have to be managing the system, and we can't give him a completely decapitalized system of the best we have, who are the professionals. A disordered system, and that's what we're doing right now. So we propose to wake up on this. We have a basic initiative now, which is possible to change. I know that one when you've been here not long enough, it wasn't necessary much anymore, you know that when PP doesn't present you with a replacement amendment, it's that you don't want to approve anything. You're learning, sometimes it doesn't happen, sometimes it doesn't happen, I think 1 out of 1,000 more or less, but at any rate I'm very afraid it can be that way. But, in any case, it serves to suggest that there goes our strategic line to the deal. Why? Because if we are able to understand that we all agree, within a margin, on the same strategic analysis, how could we not understand that these are the necessary solutions that go around? And this is our proposal. You know what the problem is? That we've been proposing for years to vote on this, to wake up about this. What's the answer? It's already being done. And what's the problem? That today we continue, not the same, but worse, because since it was already being done, it has not been done, and this is the problem, that you can lie here because 42 Members are absolute majority and they win a vote, but what they can lie here is no use in solving reality, and we have a problem. You know, we're asking for a few questions, because it's possible to solve the problem, or a good part of it, if we accept that there's a problem, and you think that accepting that there's a problem is a spot for the party, and it's not, and it's not even that way. We therefore offer that possibility of agreement, and we hope that this is no longer a debate where we repeat and repeat the same arguments when later, after the debate, we all accept that if there is a problem but we cannot recognise it, because that would not be acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u88	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u89	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. Again we came to debate, we did it in a recurring way, about the same points, about the reform of primary care. Every time they bring this debate, as welcome, here at the plenary meeting or in Commission 5th, but it would be important to move forward. We hope to reach agreement, because this is precisely the purpose that we should look for with all these initiatives, evaluate contributions and find meeting points in the search for better health for citizens. But it's often not easy to reach agreements, when you continue with the same monotheme, always denying the biggest one. We will always defend the reality, the truth and the effort that is made every day from the Galego Health Service to ensure that the Greeks and the Greeks continue to enjoy the best health care, with the best professionals, the best infrastructure and equipment in the health centers and equipped with the best technology. This is a reality, an objective and tangible reality, and so they value it and perceive it most of the Greeks who daily use public health. And we're lucky to count, on the one hand, with a government that diagnoses, plans and answers. Since July, we've had the opportunity to listen on two occasions to both the Health Counsellor and the Chief Executive Officer of Health Planning. And on the other hand, all the parliamentary groups wanted to create and conclude, in the Galician Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation Commission, a dictatorship to which we all had the opportunity to bring together all the proposals that have been made, and that in its final version, in the field of health, many of the opposition's proposals have been incorporated, many of them included in our amendment. This is precisely why, I insist, in such an important area as the future of our health care, and in particular in the case of what we are talking about primary care, it would be important to make an effort and reach consensus. Both by the Health Adviser and by the Director General of Health Planning and Reform, we listen to all the measures that are being put in place throughout the community, working in a coordinated manner with health care professionals. And in spite of this, you make deaf ears to the advances that have been made in the development of the plan, and that we note here, month by month, how the measures that are proposed months later are a reality, and so it happens with the local plans, with the application of quality schedules and with the so gentle presence. We all agree that reform of primary care was necessary, and in fact by 2018 it began to work on this restructuring, and you are now requesting reform. We've been reforming this primary care for three years. A necessary restructuring, because there were decades that we had a model that had not changed, and the characteristics of Galician population have also undergone change, and our community is increasingly counting on an older population, and this increases chronic pathologies, coupled with Galician geographic dispersion. And so ran the 2019-2021 Primary Care Plan, which was developed with the collaboration of more than 120 professionals and laid the foundations for the reforms that are now being implemented, and in parallel the Health Council prepared a document collecting the keys to strengthening and reforming the primary care of the future. This document, For primary vertebrate care, which has been incorporated into many of the measures adopted in the Reactivation Plan and the Plan 2019-2021, has done work and strategy in order to implement the necessary measures. A plan that advances despite the pandemic. Now, after almost two years and with everything learned during it, when it seems that we are already returning to normal and we know that poscovid primary care will no longer be the same, it will continue to advance and continue to advance and work. And at the plenary session 15 days ago, we heard the councillor say that each and every one of the measures planned and promised is being complied with and implemented, as announced. We hear, for example, how new categories of professionals are being added up. For example, in psychology, 7 new professionals, 1 for each health area; there is more presence, more connection to mental health and primary health. And also with other specialties, because coordinated work from primary, hospital and home hospitalization is fundamental. Without coordination between these services it is not possible to move forward in any way. Mr. Torrado, you're an expert in laughing rice, eh! It's funny, you ask in your motion to incorporate the selection into the health centers, and you heard here the first-hand counselor who told you -- that he, in addition, was a witness of that -- that in Vigo it was implanted and it didn't work. The Health Council is working on a system that allows the automatic referral of patients to the most suitable professional according to their need. They say there are no human resources, and 162 new primary squares have been created in the budgets this year; there are no budgets, for the opposition this is not creating jobs. 83 family doctors were offered in the 2020 OPE and 60 in the 2021 OP. We all agree with the need to incorporate more professionals, but it is necessary and essential that the Government comply with this Parliament's request, that this extraordinary call for MIR squares be effective. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no doctors! that's the reality; that's not what I'm saying, is that there are no doctors in Galicia or other communities. And every year there are thousands of graduates of medicine at the doors of that so eager training, we give them an opportunity. We know that we also need to believe more centers for the formation of these MIRs, and also more tutors, is essential. The councillor in last plenary specifically said that these tutors would be released from hours of attention in order to carry out their training functions, a fundamental issue in order to continue to provide better training for future specialists. Without specific training hours we know that we cannot achieve the excellence that has so far been achieved in our country. You're talking about face-to-face. Curious!, a subject already very much debated and with different answers according to the center. Because, according to the center, there's presence between 40, 60 or 90... that's what I always said and I -- that I work in health -- I see him every day; that is, the patient calls, talks to the doctor and, depending on what, the consultation is done by presence or telephone. Of course, we went through a pandemic and the presence had to be done more phone consultation than the presence. But it's funny, look, on the same day that the doors were completely opened to the consultation, asking for a presence of 100 %, and the telephone consultation remains the mode of presence of the citizens of Greece asking for primary telematic care. To the Greeks we have to let them choose freely, many of them still elect the telephone, it's their choice. Mrs. Prado, let's leave them, we can't impose what any citizen chooses as an option. There is one thing that is clear and we have no doubt about: primary care is the most efficient and effective way to provide value services and guarantee social equity. In that I suppose we all agree. A diagnosis was made, plans for improvement have been put in place, and the Government, Sergas and professionals are moving forward every day in their search for them. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the people of Greece would expect us here in Parliament to reach agreement, and that is why we once again bring an amendment to compromise. Let us let the professionals work, that no one else wants these measures to continue to move forward to achieve this so eager primary care of the 21st century. A strong, empowered, primary care capable of solving all the problems that have been dragging on for some time. But, Mr. Torrado, we hope that since the Central Government they will have the sensitivity and the correctness of accepting what we insistently ask from Galicia: more MIR training squares, an extraordinary call from family MIR to give solution to this structural deficit in our primary care that we suffer and that we want it to be corrected, and that so eager elimination of the replenishment rate. Galicia is a leader in innovative projects, such as quality agendas, already available by all primary care doctors and which will soon also be available for nursing. And, Mrs. Prado, you should change your speech, that discourse is over; always with the same speech. New specialties like psychologists are already being incorporated, already working on wallets since they were first asked for. Poor of us if we haven't exceeded those 200,000 euros that you ask day after day and that they repeat without stopping! They don't know that primary care budgets are growing year by year and so they should keep going. I'm going to read the two points of the amendment that we have tabled to you, which takes up the commitments that you have already made to the Galician Union, in line with what the two groups are asking for in your motion and which also includes the document For a vertebral attention, and also the commitments adopted in the reactivation commission's statement: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue to move forward with the compliance set out in the document For a vertebrate care in primary care," that would be the first point. And the second: "Continuing the development of the commitments adopted in the reactivation committee's opinion, particularly in matters relating to primary care, mental health and/or staff in those cases where work is not yet completed. And, in particular, in the following points: by renewing the regulatory regulatory regulatory regulation of primary care management and its provision of facilities to adapt it to the challenges contained in the document Through a vertebral health system's vertebral health care; by regulating the figures of directives, such as heads of service and coordinators of primary care services, and by promoting their choice through the presentation of local health plans that reinforce the community role of primary care services in primary care services, freeing them from their primary health care services, and allowing them to focus more fully on their managerial and coordinating tasks; by completing the work of the Primary Attention Technical Council on proposals for the service of the service of the service service service of the service of the same service service service of different professional categories of service, the specific categories of service of the quality service of the service of the service of the primary care service of the primary care service of the primary health service of the primary health service of the primary health sector; by providing them with the provision of its provision of opportunity to adapt it to adapt it to the challenges contained in the following points: renewing the following points: renewing the following in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the following points: renewing the following the following the following the following the following the following points: renew the following the following the following the following the following the following the following points: renewing the following points: renewing the regulatory issues: renew the regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory regulatory legislation: by its provision of primary care of its provision of its provision of its provision of primary care of primary care of primary care of primary care of its provision of primary care of primary care of its provision of primary care of its provision of primary care of primary care of its provision of primary care of its provision of primary care of its provision of its provision of its provision of its provisions of primary care of primary care of its provision of the challenges to adapt of its provision of its provision of primary care of its provision of the challenges to the challenges to the challenges to the challenges to meet of the challenges to meet of the challenges to adapt of the challenges to adapt of the challenges to adapt of the challenges to adapt of its provision of its provision of the challenges Advances in new technologies must be suited to their usefulness for the functioning of the system and to the care needs, taking ICT as a tool and tool but not as an end itself; improving the working conditions of potential staff through the provision of continuity appointments that provide greater stability and through the renewal of the regulatory regulations of their links and their updating of the recruitment pact with trade union organizations. And develop the mental health plan that has already been reoriented and expanded to address the consequences of the pandemic on mental health with the creation of more than 200 new health care facilities; and new squares in centers, residences, protected apartments, rehabilitation centers or transition housing for acute patients. And to continue to provide psychological care programmes to health professionals initiated during the acute phase of the pandemic." We hope to reach an agreement. And nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Groups authors of the non-law proposal. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u91	Thank you, President. The People's Party Member says he is tired of us bringing the situation of primary care here. I suppose the People's Party, generally Members and Members, will think that by letting the problems rot or putting waste under the carpet they disappear; but, no, they just rot or are hidden, but they don't disappear. [[Murmurs.]] And the problem of public health in Galicia and primary care is not only that it doesn't disappear, but that it's happened to be in a situation of serious illness before the pandemic is currently critical of ICU. That's the reality anyone can see. [[Applause]] That's the reality. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And in front of that reality the People's Party comes and insists on the word of order: there are no doctors! There's no doctors, we've closed the chiringuito, they're done bothering! There's no doctors, and there's no doctors! Of course, there are no doctors, and from there, what do you do for doctors? Of course, from there is what do you do? Because with that, what do you mean, that you're not going to have health care for the Greeks and the Greeks? [[Murmurs.]] You're gonna have to stand without them looking at you? They're gonna have to stand by waiting for their problems to get chronic? Are they going to have to stand up late for diagnosis and be a fatal outcome? Is that the answer you have to give to the Greeks and to the Greeks? That's what they say here systematically: there's no doctors, we're quiet, let's let the story die... because the BNG won't let the story die, it won't. And I'm going to explain a few questions to you slowly, Mrs. Friend. First, there are no doctors. I told you, with investment in primary care under the average and maintained over time -- it's not a matter of the year 2019, where this statistic I've shown you before, but it's kept in the last 12 years -- it's very complicated to do things. Look, the statistics on the same data from the Ministry. We have to use the Ministry's data because the People's Party's Union has no data, it doesn't elaborate it, we don't know it. So, as there's no data... we don't produce data, so we have to resort to those that facilitate the Ministry, these are the consolidated data, just like before. It's not budgeting, that budgeting is painting what's supposed to be done, we're talking about consolidated budgeting. And Galicia is under the average spending on MIR formation; under the average, they don't care to see it, under the average. So it's very good to insist that there's no professionals, there's no such thing, but what they haven't just said is what they're doing. They invest below average and allow the 70 million invested in the year 2019 in MIR training, that those who are trained do not remain in primary care. But that's the fault of the inventory, that's the guilt of the stonelayer, isn't it the fault of the People's Party, that 70's only 30's left in primary care. It's not because of the recruitment policies of the People's Party, it's because they do; things happen because they do. And, look, I'll explain two things to you in a little bit. The BNG -- just like the Greeks and the Greeks -- what we're demanding is attention... to see, you get me! Present attention to all the people who need it and ask for it. Whoever doesn't want it, whoever wants the phone to ask for it. All those who need it and ask for it have the right to be present. Let's see if it's clear! [[Applause]] That's right. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The next question, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is: we are already incorporating professionals. No, look, what we've seen demanding is the incorporation of professionals like, for example, clinical psychology. And we insist on clinical psychology because all studies say that 30% of primary care consultations have to do with health problems. So if 30% of primary care consultations have to do with health problems and there are no family doctors, why don't they hire and incorporate into primary care clinical psychologists? In primary care, in health centers, not a liaison professional for an entire hospital area. At all health centers, clinical psychology. There are professionals in the recruitment and unemployment lists, many in Galicia, very qualified, with experience. Why don't you hire them to get the population a proper attention and take off the waiting lists? Because they don't have the political will to do it. Because they don't want it, because they don't want it. That's the reality. And what we're telling you today is that there's another script possible. There's a script that can launch measures like this. There's another script that may exclude such issues as this, that doctors from Ribeira's health center forced to cover CAP guards at the turn of the bureaufax. Which excludes situations like this where professionals who are exhausted from prolonged days, from interconsultation, from having no days off, as they are told not to do another turn because they can no longer, you order it by bureaufax. That's the alternative to professionals, that's systematic abuse. So another roadmap that doesn't mistreat professionals or a roadmap that makes that, for example -- this was published in a media media a few days ago -- Noelia, a 31-year-old nurse, had gone to another health system, in this case of Catalonia, and where she says, they offered me a 12-month contract with vacations and everything -- she says -- they've finished contracts per day and I've got my breaks, wages are also better and the relief of not living pending the phone and being able to plan my life. If you professionals offer you minimum conditions like these too many would stay and work in the public system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u93	...of Greek health, starting with primary care. So your amendment to continue, to insist... is not the time for that, is the time to act. And here in this amendment, there is absolutely no measure, no measure that is not merely a fundamental philosophy, but nothing concrete. I'm sorry that's the way it is because that means they're going...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u95	...to insist on your road map of what they seem to do, but don't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u97	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. The truth is... it's true that sometimes -- said Mrs. Friend -- that we repeat the debate. And it's true. So much so we repeat that sometimes you also think it's useful. You have -- and you usually say it -- you have the most legitimate part of this Parliament to vote whatever you want. They don't ask us, they don't present any amendments, they can introduce them, but... they have proposed that the debate be resolved by voting on the others an amendment which means that we're going to applaud the government because it's doing very well. Because it's illogical. This is going to be solved -- if it's solved, which I think will be solved, I'm more and more convinced that without you, but you're needed to solve this -- it's going to be solved without applauding anyone and without shooting at anyone. That's how it's gonna work out, Mrs. Friend. As you mentioned several things, I don't think it gives me time, nor does it fit, but among all I chose four that seem interesting, because they're things other than their approach. First, about the presence, and you argued that we must leave the Greeks who choose... look, you read the press release from the council. When at the last plenary session the councillor announced here in the afternoon -- with his little mouth too, uh!, it cost him to announce -- that the Greeks would be able to request the presence quote if they wanted it, that press release was issued the following morning. Not 24 hours, not 20, I'd say so to the eye or 15. It's the council press release. You guys hurryed fast before a lot of people were asked to announce it. But it's more, to see what we're actually doing... because we're cheating on each other, eh! We're cheating on each other to see that we're cheating on each other. Today the same public media that in Santiago 70% of the requests are of face-to-face consultation. And I'm not going to defend you that today's news is more valid than it was 15 days ago, and I'm not even going to defend you that today's media news is better than the council press release. What I'm going to tell you is that using the board press release a few hours after you announce that you were right, it's not a valid medium. You argue that the incorporation of clinical psychologists is already being done. I defend him: first, that you have voted against it many times. So first of all, you voted against something that we often defend, voted against and now incorporate. I'm not saying we were right anymore, I'm going to try to be more conciliator. That you knew and agreed to it, but they didn't vote because it was us who proposed it. A certain sectarianism, bad. So if it's a good measure, it'll be approved, because I don't think you've learned it now, you know enough about it to know what it takes. By the way, seven psychologists throughout Galicia are not linking mental health to primary care. First of all, by a question of size and, secondly, because mental health is not a question of clinical psychologists. I'm a psychologist, I'd say yes. They're psychiatrists, they're mental health nurses, they're more professional. We're cheating too. So let's not go to the headline to try to say that if it does well, let's go to reality. All right, seven is more than zero. Great, but it's not enough. And another: replacement rate and extraordinary MIR. We're going to discount the debate that the replacement rate today is 110% and Rajoy is 10%, okay? multiply by 11. Let's take that off. I'm saying that because it would be very easy. I'm going to try to clear this debate and I'm going to avoid the goal to the singing door and I'm going to try to miss it directly. I'm also going to remind you that when you ask for an extraordinary MIR, I keep asking why you've renounced 150 MIR professionals from family and community medicine in 10 years. Maybe they didn't know they'd retire so many now. They gave up on them, they had them and they gave up on them. And I'm going to avoid telling you that during Rajoy's government the qualifications, that is, the validation of squares... so everyone knows, the validation of squares, so that you can call MIR, the validation of family and community squares, that is, doctors from health centers in Galicia, so that they could increase throughout the Rajoy government, without the government Feijóo saying anything, it was zero, zero. But I'll try to skip that. You and I shared this weekend a very interesting debate -- not at the same table -- a meeting of health parliamentarians from across Galicia, who invited us to participate in different tables. And another table -- not to get into our debate, which is not the question -- another table on the MIRs that, we just talked about here, listening to two proposals about staff. One, the extraordinary MIR -- let's also take away that you regulated in 2003 with Aznar that it was illegal, that they say there can only be one call a year. We're gonna take him away, too. On the MIR and on the replacement fee, the spokesperson of the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies. Do you know how many times he claimed the need for an extraordinary MIR to be more primary professionals, and how many times he claimed the elimination of the replacement fee to the spokesperson of the People's Party in Congress of Deputies -- in an area where no one can be deceived anymore because they are professionals in the sector who know what they're talking about--? Zero. You do this here to win a headline, but you know: first, that it's not viable; second, that being a People's Party and claiming to eliminate the replacement rate is ridiculous, because in addition to voting in Congress of Deputies and the Socialist Party, of whom we are here, it was the only one who voted in favour, and they know that you didn't. That's ridiculous. Let's get ourselves to solve some issues that are possible, because when you get out of here and try to put it as an argument in the media, when you get out there don't defend it. Why? Because they know, first, that it's not possible and, second, that it's ridiculous. If you're not defending him later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u99	They're not defending him. So don't ask us to applaud them. We propose to wake up questions, we propose. It will probably give in to some of what we stand for, but if you sometimes assume things that you voted against when you proposed them, something we can do. We propose to wake up, not to impose and not to laugh at anyone, without shooting, but it's also true that without applauding. It would be much better if we didn't think about self-comprehensiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u100	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We started by voting for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the initiative of Don Maria do Carme González Iglesias. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Maria do Carme González Iglesias, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the naval sector of Vigo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 21, against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u101	We now vote separately for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the initiative of Mrs. Maria Monserrat Prado Cores. On the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado? You don't accept it. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of primary care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u102	We are now voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado's initiative. He said he did not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the policy of the Greek Government in the field of face-to-face in primary care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u103	We continue with point 5 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, initiative by Donna Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to ensure the socialization and economic return of the benefits generated by energy production in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u104	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Ms Noelia Otero Lago, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal: Amendment to amend must be replaced by the resolution of the non-legislative proposal by the following:"The German Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Negotiate a new integral wind model with the participation of all sectors involved, which address the multiple problems of transparency, participation, counselling and environmental guarantees in which the Wind Sector Plan is updated and which study the following proposals:-- Modify the wind cannon and the Environmental Compensation Fund, so that the cannon is established by the installed power of the wind park, using the full collection to act on improvements in the municipalities and local communities affected by the installation of these parks.-- Establish a model of "type contract" to promote the transparency and guarantees of rural landowners.-- Create a public base of information of the prices reached in the negotiations between the parties affected by the installation of an wind park.-- Strengthen the environmental guarantees of the territories affected by the installation of new wind farms or the reconstitution of existing ones, with particular attention to the protection of the area belonging to the nature of the nature reserve reserve area and its future expansions and the volume of the land. Reactivating in collaboration with the municipalities affected by the authorisation of wind projects to reverse the situation of paralysis to which the Government of Greece submitted to the sector in the years 2020 and 2021, which will end with less than 100 MW authorised these two years and carry with it the closure of the industry of components of the sector such as Vestas en Viveiro or Gamesa-Siemens en As Somozas."]] To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Today a debate about the economic return of wind energy in Galicia cannot begin without looking at the Living and sending all our solidarity to the workers and clothing workers, who are so worried at the moment. [[Applause]] This solidarity, moreover, unfortunately, is inevitable to extend it to the entire region of the Navy, which sees with despair as once again Alcoa's workers and workers return to unemployment because the sale continues to be blocked. Of course, the north of the country is undoubtedly the epicenter of an enormous industrial crisis right now. But the truth is if we look at those jobs and industries that in our country are directly or indirectly dependent on electricity, the radius of action spreads like a great earthquake to the country as a whole. And do it in two ways. On the one hand, we can see all those cases in which either the price of energy or the consequences of the so-called energy transition, which is being done at the orders of the companies of the electric oligopolie, without proper planning by the Union and with taxes, with respect to the central government, which does not take into account the interests of the Greeks, are acting as a detonator. We see examples from the Bridges to Ferrolterra, passing the Death Coast, through Coruña or south of Vigo. But, on the other hand, with all these processes, we can also see the other side of the coin. In Galicia, when we talk about the relationship between energy and economic development, we also have to talk about a long list of lost opportunities. To think both of the economic development that has ceased to take place to dominate energy development, as well as of all that energy development that has been made without demanding in return or the least economic development. So what we're saying from BNG may seem like a workaround, but it has images that illustrate it in a very simple way. In the initial relationship that I've made, if we think of a map of our country, we see how we're almost going along the entire coast and the whole Atlantic axis, and there's a huge part left that corresponds to the interior, south of Lugo, and with all this road to Portugal, going through several Ourense districts, a vast territory that, despite being energy reserve from different companies, does not have a job or industry fixation in exchange. And today morning, precisely, we were talking a lot about this chorus chamber, about how, of the 45 large hydraulic installations in our country, 25 for example, of which 22 are entirely in Ourense neighborhoods, and we saw this same summer, like this chorus crisis that we're talking about today morning, the Oresan newspaper La Region was studying the evolution of the population of the areas where these large hydraulics were installed, and it was very well summed up by a headline that was: 50,000 inhabitants less since the construction of the reefs. Far from associating the economic and social development of the territory, the life of the 22 major hydroelectric power stations located in the Orensa geography runs parallel to the loss of nearly 50,000 inhabitants in the 18 rural municipalities that house them. That's another big emptying associated with the choirs. It is true that such a complex, structural problem, such as the demographic crisis and the crisis that generally goes through our country, does not have one single cause, but, of course, it is clear, it is clear and meridian, over so many years, that these facilities are greatly amortized and that they have not brought together economic development, despite the fact that year they generate millions and millions of euros. That doesn't revert to economic development. And we bring precisely the example of hydraulics to speak today about the wind energy and the problems there is to transfer the generation to which we also have an economic return in our country, recalling what Marx was saying by reinterpreting Hegel: history occurs twice, the first as a great tragedy and the second as a miserable farce. And what happened yesterday with the hydraulics in franchise, is happening, saving the distances, today with the development of an energy transition orchestrated like a real farce and a wind development driven by the People's Party that does not correct the evasives of this model, which does not leave an economic legacy as it should in our country. And today we see the lack of planning, lack of management, lack of consensus with populations, lack of guarantees of return for the use of a natural resource that is everyone's, and we all turn to economic development, and we also debate very much in this House about the multiple specific problems that the political model of the People's Party has. And today we want, precisely, from the BNG to insist on an absolutely key issue for us: this model directly prevents an economic return, which is a huge missed opportunity. And that's not because it's a biblical plague or there's no other alternative or possibility, that's, directly, by political decisions, by the political decisions of the People's Party model, which, ever since the political decree of the Bipartite took place in its day, has been limited to pushing a law which, by course, has changed nine times and which directly prevents a sufficient economic return, from beginning because it does not oblige, it does not put a single condition for that wind expansion to be associated with an expansion also in the industrial, economic or labor field. Directly, the People's Party removed the instruments they served to do this, removed the obligation to associate industrial plans, eliminated the possibility of direct public participation for the benefit of the sector, both of Galicia's board and other entities, and even refused to resume other figures that existed in other moments of our legal framework, such as those unique wind parks. And, therefore, today, given the wind expansion that we are having, and given its zero result in terms of industrial development and the maintenance of employment, of course this debate is absolutely urgent. Because the solidarity I expressed with the workers and Vesta workers at the beginning of this intervention is very good, and they will certainly be all those declarations of intentions, institutional, that we will see in the coming weeks, but here we have the possibility to do something more than declare our solidarity, we have the possibility to push changes that prevent the history that is repeating itself with Vestas, as we have already seen with Siemens-Gamesa and earlier with other companies, from repeating it. And, of course, if we're talking about wind industry, economic development and this whole debate that we're bringing up from the Galician Nationalist Block, there are several questions that we should ask ourselves as a country. For example, how can it be that, if by 2020, a year in which Galicia had practically shut down its two thermal power stations, as it is possible that while still exporting 29.2% of electricity, it does not have any compensation in return for that country. We must ask ourselves how, in this context of economic crisis, we, who export gold directly, in a context of historical record of price, instead of benefiting ourselves, have one industry closing down after another. How can it be that, since Galicia is the second most wind-powered community in the state, as it is possible that Galicia, beating a historical record in our own history of the generation of wind energy, see how companies in the sector close. As they may be lost this year, if you consume the Vestas closure, more than 300 direct jobs in the sector alone. That, of course, has only one name, which is polished, only one name, which is shameful, and of course today what we want is to put on the table proposed to end that shame. A shame that, in addition, takes place, precisely, because it has brought us here the model that has driven the People's Party, which first paralyzed the sector, causing a first wave of closures, which then changed, in addition, that model of public participation by a model of wind canon which is absolutely unusable, so much by its formulation... I want to remember here that at some point we had to pay, through our energy bill, that cost transferred by companies, and because we also have to say that the contia is ridiculous and de minimising, 23 million euros a year, that they get less and less. The next day the director of Atliga appeared in this Parliament and we were talking about this very issue: the transformation of parks leads to less and the Galician Union does absolutely nothing, and if we compare these 23 million euros with the estimate made by the Galician Wind Observatory that companies generate more than 500 million euros of profits each year for their arks with the Greek wind, because it is enough to make a brief account of how much they could have 20% direct public participation, so that they could have resources to reindustrialize this country. We see, therefore, that this model, which has put an end to the obligation to bind wind installations to industrial plans that reverse the fixing of the economic fabric, has not taken us to the right port. Nor is absolute disunculation with the innovative and research system of the country, and there we see the result, because while Vestas opened a centre of innovation in the port, while Siemens-Gamesa opened a new plant in Portugal, Galicia continues to lower the shutter of companies, and unfortunately, it is not only happening in the wind sector, we could talk here, again, about the energy storage, about how once and again the People's Party voted in block -- never better said -- against that proposal made by the Nationalist Block of Wales that in the Bridges there was a centre of this type, and we see how other latitudes like Extreme advance in such centres. Of course, the conclusion we bring with this initiative is that it is unacceptable that, although I have never generated so much wind energy in this country,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u106	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u107	... despite experiencing a wind boom that's causing a lot of trouble in the territory, we see there's no return. Today we bring a battery of measures to turn it around, from measuring and evaluating with objective indicators that economic return; modify the wind cannon and -- the most important issues -- firstly, resume the obligation of industrial plans, demand that a percentage of the components be made of Welsh manufacturing to authorize these parks and also bet in the medium term by the establishment of a public energy company as we have formulated earlier.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u109	In short -- and I'm done now, Mr. President -- there are political alternatives to be able to drive a sustainable energy model, whether it's German or fair. Of course, with these proposals we could move forward on that line, and taking back what the other speaker said, we understand that no amendments from the People's Party are no longer good...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u110	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero Lago. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u111	Good afternoon again. We talked about energy, exactly like two weeks ago -- in this case we were talking about the receipt of light. We are faced with necessary debates, but which, by responsibility, must crystallize into specific policies, because if not, there are, indeed, direct consequences. Here in Galicia we import 70% of the energy in the form of hydrocarbons, oil and gas, so the only possible effective way forward is to move forward in an energy transition to achieve climate neutrality in the year 2050. And how can that goal be achieved without wind energy? That is the big question, because neither escapism, climate negationism, nor total opposition, of course, would allow us to achieve that objective. Last June, not to go any further, the PSdeG brought this Parliament a proposal to advance on this line, correcting precisely the eves that exist in the process of deploying wind energy in the country, a reform to counter the discomfort and mistrust of citizenship and based on participation and transparency. We, from the PSdEG, have been proclaiming with natural and vigorousness at the same time that we are strong defenders in the deployment of renewable energies, we are not in the irresponsibility of those who stand against any initiative of wind deployment. Renewables are, in fact, an indispensable piece to accelerate towards the necessary sustainable energy transition, the only way out, as we said, with the ability to mitigate climate change and the crisis in which we find ourselves. In fact, the wind energy generated here in Galicia allowed the emission of 32.9 million tons of CO2 between 2015 and 2019, reaching 5.4 million in 2019 alone. On the other hand, the wind sector is also important in economic terms for Galicia, because in 2019 it represented a total contribution to GDP of some EUR 581 million, and the number of jobs directly and indirectly associated with the wind sector was 7,000 workers. Together with this economic, environmental weight, we have the problem of prices in the regulated electric market, we cannot depend on imported fossil fuels. The prices so high that they are paying are due to gas, to their demand, these are the technologies that mark the fare of the last resort, as it is already full assumed by society as a whole. So in this objective context, maintaining a responsible and firm positioning that doesn't change like the wind, and never better said, is what we've seen from this group. Galicia was a pioneer in regulating the use of the wind for electricity production. The wind has developed widely over the last decades in our territory, becoming, indeed, a power. This process, which took place thanks to our wind richness, was subject to the installation of more than 4,000 air carriers in many of the mountains, in more than a hundred municipalities. Precisely, what we've seen defending is in common sense, continuing to move forward, but in a planned, responsible way, in conjunction with our rural communities, rural communities and municipalities, to adapt a sectoral wind plan that does not respond to current reality and needs. We must therefore study together where the expansions of the wind sector can be located and, accordingly, what are the areas that we must preserve from the impact of a park with infrastructure that, in addition, have changed a lot in these last decades, because nothing has to do with those mills 50 meters from the 1990s with today, which double, and something else, that figure, reaching up to 200 meters high. In many cases, air carriers are no longer in the mountains and live in inhabited nuclei. So we need to protect citizenship, and that's why we ask and insist on that need to increase minimum distances to housing. We also call for them to act so that wind development does not clash with the protection of biodiversity. We're still waiting for the expansion of the Natura Network, projected by the two-party government, chaired by Touriño, and systematically blocked in the last ten years. Ten years, a whole decade waiting for a capital matter, which was urgent in 2011 and which is essential in this 2021 and which makes us in the state queue wagon. We've also talked about the disillusionment around the protection of the valuable wetlands, in the state of creation of Galician wetlands inventory. For all this, we insist again on the need to establish an energy plan that is participatory, transparent and fairer with the owners of the land affected, and, of course, that it does not endanger our natural wealth and the primary activities of our territory. These are neither ideas nor new approaches and, despite having this debate on other occasions, what do we find ourselves under arrest? A turn -- as I said at the beginning -- at the same exit point or even worse. Because we're in a real situation of paralysis. This year, in the state as a whole, there will be 1,800 wind megawatts, here in Galicia 35; last year, 2020, only 70. The direct consequence of this paralysis -- among other things -- is that there is no auxiliary industry that survives and supports this situation. This inaction leads either to closure or to the relocation of our industry. The situation of Vestas en Viveiro is the most recent example of this defect, or the case of Gamesa. Mrs. Candia spoke this morning about the situation in Vestas, blaming -- like not-- Madrid. Well, I want to invite her, and invite them to see, read, what the Galician Wind Association says today. They ensure that the lack of activity and wind paralysis in autonomic policies explain the situation of the Viveiro factory, according to a public statement that collects the press -- it is in the ABC, for example -- of this association that brings together the main companies in the sector. The explanation, they say, is simple: if there are no megawatts there are no factories, and the Vestas crisis is a direct consequence of this paralysis of policies at the autonomic level. [[Applause]] In this communiqué, in which they call for a social and political pact for wind energy, they remember that it is the main weapon to fight climate change, it is a tool -- as we said -- decisive and we share, to attract investments, generate employment and wealth; ultimately, to improve the quality of life. These are literal words of the communiqué. According to the association data, in addition, the wind sector has already lost a thousand jobs in the last year and a half. They'll also say -- as in the debate on this ship's noon -- that it's going to be the pandemic and that sometimes certain industries go up or down. But speaking of your own competences, once again, I imagine that neither this afternoon nor a single word. By the end, since our group today, we have insisted on concrete reforms and approaches that we've been defending for months. We need to negotiate a new comprehensive model with the participation of all sectors involved, which solves the multiple problems of transparency, participation, counselling, environmental guarantees and the updating of the wind sector plan, and which explores the following proposals: -- Modify the wind canon and the Environmental Compensation Fund for the canon to be established by the installed power of the wind park, using the comprehensive collection to act on improvements in the municipalities and local communities affected by the installation of these parks. -- Establish, however, a standard contract model to promote transparency, guarantees for rural owners. -- To create a public base of price information reached in negotiations between the affected parties in the installation of an wind farm. -- Strengthen the environmental guarantees of the territories affected by the installation of new parks or the repotencing of existing parks, with particular attention to the protection of the territory belonging to the Natura Network and its future expansions and the wetlands of the territory, preventing, in any case, the fractionation of projects of wind farms that are taking place in our community, in violation of the existing legislation. To establish, too, a new minimum distance from housing to windmills, such as in Asturias or the Valencian Community, which is 1,000 metres away. -- Limit the volume of polygonal land-affected areas of wind projects the minimum necessary for their development and reactivate, in collaboration with the municipalities concerned, the authorization of projects affected by the authorization of wind projects that allow to reverse the state of absolute paralysis to which this Government of the Union has subjected the sector in the years 2020 and 2021, which will end with less than 100 megawatts authorised in these two years and which brings with it -- we insist -- the closure of the industry of components of the sector, such as Vestas en Viveiro or Gamesa Siemens in the Somozas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nóvoa Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u113	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Well, Mrs. Presas, your paper!, go fake! It's just that if the Galego Nationalist Block were, it wouldn't be that I'd close the vests, it would be that I'd close the entire wind chain in Galicia, but we'd take two legislatures to the top against the wind farms! But how can you be more cynical, please, Mrs. Presas! [[Applause]] Mrs. Otero, you like to read the press, you've already told me the other day, I'm going to read today's morning news, which you can't see well. I want to read: "The Galician Wind Association finds legal insecurity the fall of centres like Vestas in Viveiro, whose closing announced for the end of the year stain of the worst news for the county. In a statement, the Greek wind bosses lament that Spain -- Spain!-- has just penalized the performance of electricity companies as a result of the rise in the price of light." Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] The royal decree they passed the other day to lower the price of light created chaos, legal insecurity. By the way, the royal decree of 30 pages, and five days later they had to get a clarification of ten pages, gentlemen, because the legal insecurity created in the renewable sector is abismal, but the news is not well read! And the worst thing is, you probably don't know, but, look, I've been debating for years now, but in this legislation, of energy. His colleagues, the Galician Nationalist Block, are bringing at least on average an initiative by Commission 6th against the wind sector. How can you say here today that it's the fault of the Galician Union that you don't install wind farms? But if you don't want wind farms in Galicia to be installed! You, the PSdEG, not the Socialist Party. But, please, Mrs. Otero, there can't be any greater example of cynicism, there isn't. It's just that there can't be, an absolute chaos, a wrong energy transition. Two years, ladies and gentlemen, two years to summon a renewable energy supply and wonder why renewable energy was not installed by 2020 and 2021. Two years since they arrived in the Government, zero posses of renewable energy. But he's a surrealist, eh! man, please! read a little more, Mrs. Otero, look. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Incoherence is of such a level, incoherence is of such a level that here the left bench, but on the side of the Galician Nationalist Block, they call us predators because we install, they say we install everything and the others that we don't install. Home! I know that the PSOE and BNG binomial didn't work very well at the Industry Council when they ruled, we all know, right? That Mr. Tourin was about to cease Mr. BNG's advisor because of his disloyalty. And if we're going to talk about models here, we're talking about wind models, Mrs. Presas, is that you pulled it out, I wouldn't talk to you about the Bipartite, but, hey, two contests cancelled by justice, 2006 and 2007, by the way, between the two contests, 800 megawatts, and the predators are us, but they're going to take out the 800 wind megawatts contest, cancelled by justice, canceled by law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And besides being evaluated by justice, their government partners said they were at their fingertips. Hey, look! A little respect, wind sector model elections, zero. Zero, gentlemen. Look, we have a wind model that is prioritized by a sectoral wind plan, which is a territorial management tool that defines where the winds can be placed and where they don't. We have a law of the year 2019 of natural heritage which clearly specifies the principles of prevention and precautions, and which puts above the natural environment in the face of any urban deployment, and you know, ladies and gentlemen, you know that Galicia is shielded at 77.5% and that no wind farms can be installed at 77.5% of our surface. So, ladies, that's the reality. We're talking back here, and here we're given another lesson. How much did you put the BNG? Zero euros, who created the wind cannon, what return did you give him? And... what do you say no, Mrs. Rodil? I have, I know the story, if you don't know it, you understand, the wind cannon was set up by this government, has collected more than 200 million euros, to return to the territory. And I repeat, Mrs. Presas, ask your mayor of Muras, who receives more than 500,000 euros a year from the wind canon, that's the reality, Your Honor. You don't talk back here, do you? Or BNG, or Bipartite? Zero euros, this government, the wind canon, which has returned to the territory, yes, Your Honor, apart from the taxes that I will no longer remember here the taxes of IBI and... that the electric companies pay. And look, yesterday -- returning to the Vestas theme -- Mrs. Otero, here's a picture -- that you really like the photos -- do you know who's in this picture? The Galician Board and the company committee, do you know who's missing from this picture? [[Mr. Novoa Otero shows a photograph in the Chamber.]] The central government, he was summoned to this meeting, he was called to this meeting, where is it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's not. This is the reality of what you worry about. Look, much better would we all go if we agreed on an energy plan. Look, Mr. Orange showed me a picture. But, Mr. Aranguena, I will not show you the photos of Mr. Pedro Sanchez with Galán, who also has them, please don't take that picture from me, don't be ridiculous. [[Applause]] Look, the reality is that the Galego Nationalist Block tells us that we have renewable energy when it's not true. We are very proud of renewable energy, but it turns out that Galicia can only use 30% of that energy. And we have to keep importing energy -- Mrs. Otero said the figures here too -- and we have to move much further in the electrification of our economy, especially in the thermal part. And you know it and your gurus also know it, even if they don't tell you, Mrs. Presas, and they want to charge us the Greek fare, and I've already told you at the last initiative of the full past that no, we're going to tell you every time it's necessary not to your Greek tariff. And you know why? Because neither is it, nor are we self-sufficient, nor can we live from our energy that we generate at the moment, because we have no chance of energy storage. But Mrs. Rodil thinks we're able to install an energy storage company. Look, Your Honor, what's settled in Extremeura is a research center in energy storage, we don't have the invented technology, Mrs. Rodil, you understand, no, no. In Galicia we're working to install companies like this, we're going to see what happens with the Next Generation funds and the green hydrogen opportunities this community has. Your Honor, we're not going to accept your tax prescription. Madam Presas, no, because it's a scam for the Greeks, because it was supposed to pay 30% more for the light, plus, no less, you say less, but no less. The data is that we collect 700 million per electric fee in our community and it turns out that energy in our community costs 900 million, with which 200 million is missing. So your recipe is a scam, and you also know that the responsibility for the price of light is not Feijóo's, it's not Feijóo's, Mr. Orange, it's Mr. Sánchez's, and there they've placed it, the Galician Nationalist Block has placed it in the Moncloa, ladies and gentlemen, that's the reality. Look, the reality of our wind system and our wind plan is that it is an instrument that enables the development of wind energy compatible with the environment and the protection of our natural heritage. Look, we have environmental regulations that protect our territory, that hurts you a lot, it hurts them a lot, gentlemen. So the reality is -- I've explained it several times here -- the wind processing that is done in Galicia is the same thing that is done throughout Spain, which consists of 12 reports that have to be approved for any wind farm to go ahead. And here they deal rigorously. And of course, there are a lot of applications on the table today, among other things, for the moratorium that Mrs. Teresa Ribera put in, and that caused a tremendous flood of requests for access connections, and today we have a lot of permits. But, Mrs. Otero, we're not going to install any more because the PSOE says it, the projects will be processed rigorously, strictly, and those who have to go out and those who don't, will not, and what you're doing today is poisoning the population by saying that all the projects that are presented in the wind sector are going out ahead. And deal, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't mean approval, no. By law we have to process the projects, but you know that some will go out and some won't. So the incoherence of this bench that wanted to rule together Galicia is that some people say we don't install and others say we trap and install a lot. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality that you don't agree with yourself. Look, the policeman, Mrs. Presas, do you know what the policeman they've been subjected to? Because the policy is to close our companies, to close Ence, to close the thermals, as they wanted, before long, to stop the wind sector; ultimately, to want there to be no industry in Galicia. That's the cop you want to subject us to, gentlemen. That's the cop. And polio for BNG is also nationalizing companies, because they want a public energy company nationalizing companies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the spy you're proposing. Of course there are public energy companies, Your Honor! In Italy -- I'll give you the example, Mrs. Rodil, you know -- they have the most expensive energy in Spain -- Italy, ENEL, ENEL, of course! -- it's more energy. Look, it's a public company, but just like the two merchants who went to Spain, like those of Barcelona and Cádiz, who charge you energy, they're public dealers, and they charge them more energy than private traders. So that's your model? No, no, it's a public company why? No, it'll be a company that manages and makes us all pay the cheapest energy, not because it's public or private. Look, you're against any private business initiative. So, Mrs. Presas, don't come here to do demagogy, saying you're with the Vesta workers, because what you don't tell the Vesta workers is that every day here you're asking for the paralysis of a wind sector. If it were for you, gentlemen, there wouldn't be any wind industry in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Because they don't want the wind industry, they want a Welsh fare, a public company, what energy, if they're against everything, the thermal, they're against the wind, any...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u115	...what is the energy for you? Look, obviously we're not going to accept that kind of initiative. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You bring them as often as you want, I'm delighted to discuss energy with you, of course you do, but, look, our model thinks it's evaluated, we have a community with incredible potential for wind energy, I think we have a community that a few days ago the Sacred Ribeira has been named Biosphere Reserve, and you... we have the largest percentage of Biosphere Reserve almost in Spain, with which your speech falls by its own weight. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas. Quiet, please! There's been a little break, now we're all going to respect each other, eh! Yes, well, I understand that there's a time and again... but now it's in the use of the word to Mrs. Presas, we're going to respect it. [[Laughter]] Go ahead. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth, Mrs. Novoa, is that there are questions and misdemeanours, uniquely and exclusively to do something, which was not to talk about the proposal that the BNG brings to make the wind sector have an economic return in Galicia at last... [[Applause]] The headline, it could be: you've been ruling for 12 years, you've changed your own law of the wind sector 9 times, you've passed 3 laws that are supposed to fight relocation in this country, only in what we've been taking from 2021 Siemens-Gamesa march to Portugal and close Vestas opening production or research centers in Portugal, and here's the fault that the Nationalist Block Galego brings proposals. Well, look, Mrs. Novoa, maybe they should have checked theirs a little bit. [[Applause]] It's just that you're in a dynamic of... it's not Mr. Hyde!...as permanently that, of course!, comes here even boasts of the statement of the Biosphere Reserve, that you have not protected, and for the symbol The Iribio, The Iribio is in that Biosphere Reserve of which you assumed Yes, yes, with judgments of justice, which speaks of the disorder and legal chaos of the Board of Galicia, Mrs. Novoa. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're about to talk about legal chaos! [[Applause]] In any case, if the problem is Spain, you know, continue to become sovereignists, follow the postulates of the Nationalist Block Galician, nothing happens! [[Laughter]] In the previous plenary we had the People's Party and the Socialist Party united against the Greek electric tariff, and in this plenary we have them united against... no, in favor of not speaking -- the value of redundancy -- of the key proposal of this initiative, which is: can we link the wind projects that are going to be installed in Galicia to industrial plans, and to which a part of the components is made in Galicia? Yes or no? That is the key question we want to vote for today. You've already said no, and the Socialist Party suppresses that point of its amendment. We don't know if, as it depends also on the period of whether they're in agreement with these matters or not, what they're going to do, but, of course, that amendment cannot be accepted, sharing other reflections that were being made here. In any case, by going to clear up some questions, Mrs. Novoa, it is that what you want is that, in fact, you now see the result of this wind competition from the Bipartite. Because, look, do you know who tried to stop Mr. Blanco, and who tried to stop the project of Greek nationalism in that bipartisan government? It was the electric oligopolie and it was you who tried to stop it, Mrs. Nouveau and went wrong, it went wrong. [[Protests.]] [[Applause]] You missed your chance again to apologize here publicly to Mr. Blanco, you missed that opportunity again, but nothing happens... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u118	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u119	...that was a revolutionary decree and, indeed, if they hadn't killed him, today what we would have had is that that economic fabric that he took off in Galicia in 2009 would be, in place of absolutely collapsed after 12 years of Nuñez Feijóo, would be consolidated. And if Galicia had a direct public share of 20% of those more than 500 million euros that generate energy in our country with the German wind, this country would have a stable budget of at least 50 million euros a year to reverse research, in industrial fixation. [[Applause]] And you get back into the dark of energy storage; it's that energy storage is here the thing about it, the Holy Grail of the energy sector! We have to bet on innovation. Of course in Extremadura they're betting on an innovation centre, but that's what we ask for for Galicia, who bet on industry, who bet on innovation, and who bet on the future, Mrs. Novoa. While other countries that don't have the potential producer that we have, but neither in wind, nor in hydraulics, nor in other technologies, you make Galicia stay behind, that Galicia stays behind instead of moving forward. [[Murmurs.]] That's the problem, Mrs. Novoa. And who should speak to their mayors is you, to the mayors of the People's Party, who are approving motions around asking for another wind model. Of course we're talking to the mayor of Muras! [[Applause]] I don't know how many times I have to bring to this House the articles that publish our great mayor of Walls. But, in fact, let's talk again about the example of Muras: 400 air carriers, less than 3 direct jobs derived from them. In fact, they collect taxes -- a single case in Galicia -- and they reveal it in the neighborhood. But if there were a model of public participation like what the Galician Nationalist Block stands for, the benefit would be greater, Mrs. Novoa. And I'm done now, because if I'm running out of time, I'm referring again to Vestas. Look, Mrs. Novoa, I suppose you're already informed of the outcome of that meeting with the company and with the Union, and of what the company said. What did the company say? They have a decision to make. And what will Galician Union do? Because that decision comes through industrial policy or the absence of industrial policy in the Union, Mrs. Novoa, and they should be colored when they come here! [[Applause]] And now you are united between the People's Party and the Socialist Party to try to create that halo that here is a sudden anti-eolitic spirit in the Nationalist Block of Wales. No, no, our problem is not with the wind industry, with the technology in abstract, our problem is with the model of the People's Party, with the absolutely predatory model, and for which there is no benefit in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because as you explain -- and finished, really, Mr. President, thanking your flexibility --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u120	About the amendment, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u121	...yes, I'm done. About the amendment, I said we didn't accept it. How can it be that Galicia never generated so much wind energy, that she never experienced a boom like what's going on with authorizations, and that she's completely closing down the entire industry linked to the sector? That is absolutely criminal and this Parliament should work to change it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece regarding the updating of the local Greek Pact within the Galician Commission for Local Cooperation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u123	There are amendments to the People's Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of its representative Paula Prado del Rio, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation:Replacement amendmentThe text of the resolution must be replaced by the following: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue to encourage audit work to determine the inappropriate powers which are assumed by the autonomous administration and the municipalities, as well as the respective economic costs, in order to contribute to the improvement of the local funding system, as agreed at the meeting of the Galician Commission on Local Cooperation on 19 February 2021.]] [[G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Replace the text of the resolution with the following:"The Parliament urges the Galician Government to comply with the commitments made by the Committee of Galicia in the Local Covenant, as well as to negotiate its update within the Glaga Commission for Local Cooperation."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Socialists want to bring back the debate on the financing of the Greek municipalities. We believe that this is a very timely moment, since we are going to debate shortly, we are going to start the debate on the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022, and it would be desirable that all the parties represented in this House should take a unanimous agreement in support of the Greek municipalism, adopting the same agreements unanimously adopted within the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and reiterated again and again throughout the Greek municipalism. Socialists believe it's time to change the ways in which the German Government, headed by Nuñez Feijóo, is to relate to the Greek municipalities. I have to remind you again that it was a socialist government in the Galician Union, headed by President Emilio Pérez Touriño, who, within a few months of arriving at the Galician Union, in January 2006, signed the first local pact in Galicia, gathering the demands approved unanimously within the EGFAMP. The first Italian local pact, one of the most important agreements for the Galician municipalism, which led to the increase of the municipalities' participation in the incomes of the Galician Union, because in three years of government of Emilio Pérez Touriño the Local Cooperation Fund increased by 28 million euros, to almost 113 million euros, just as it is now. For 12 years of Feijóo government, zero euros of increase of the Local Cooperation Fund. A local Greek pact, signed by a socialist president, in which it is established for the first time that the maintenance of health centres, the maintenance of primary and child education centres and the maintenance of the courts of peace are carried out by the Council of Galicia, which, of course, has the exclusive competences in this matter. In 12 years of government of Nuñez Feijóo these agreements have not yet been fully developed. The President, Mr Touriño, has regularly called on the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, as set out in the Galician Local Administration Act, to act as what it is, the permanent body of collaboration for coordination between the autonomous administration and the local authorities of Galicia. In 12 Government of Nuñez Feijóo, for 8 years, they never convened the Galician Local Cooperation Commission. In short, 12 years of Feijóo, zero euros of increase of the Local Cooperation Fund; 12 years of Feijóo, most of the Greek municipalities continue to assume the cost of maintenance of child and primary education centres; 12 years of Feijóo, most of the Greek municipalities continue to assume the cost of maintenance of health centres; 12 years of Feijóo, the municipalities continue to bear the burden of inappropriate competences. [[Applause]] Also, during this pandemic, the Greek councils had to meet the new needs arising from the management of the crisis of the coward-19, exponentially increasing their tasks to prevent the spread of the virus, without the Galician Union having transferred them to one euro, when the Autonomous Community has received from the Government of President Pedro Sánchez more than 2,000 million euros to deal with the consequences of the health crisis. During the 12 years of Government Feijóo, the governments of the Greek Town Councils put over the well-being of their citizenship, and met their needs without taking into account who was the competition, even though their resources were always scarce. On the contrary, during these 12 years of Government Feijóo, I'm going to tell you what has grown up: they have increased the collaboration agreements, which they share, according to the needs and the emergencies -- as a high post of the Galician Union told us -- that the Government of Feijóo, which mainly benefits those councils that have a Government of the People's Party. It increases the caciquil distribution, which is not based on planning to alleviate the territorial imbalances existing in the Greek municipalities, both in physical, economic and social infrastructures, which promote balanced development in our territory, and which prevent the severe depopulation that affects our municipalities. As always, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you data. Look, I took up the collaboration agreements only for the year 2020 of the Environment Council, the Galician Waters, the First Vice-Presidentship, the Galician Tourism Agency and the Galician Infrastructure Agency. The conventions published in the Official Journal of Galicia, excluding those which were shared with objective criteria. And look, the result is this: total 2020 agreements, almost EUR 30.6 million, in which EUR 24.6 million are for municipalities governed by the People's Party. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a graph to the House.]] This is the reality. [[Applause]] If we make a comparison between the percentage of these agreements and the percentage that the People's Party represents in the municipal governments out of the polls in 2019, we can see what distribution the People's Party makes: 81% for municipalities governed by the People's Party, compared to 47% that are the local governments that have a government of the People's Party. EUR 30.6 million to share the finger in 2020 and in the Feijóo Government, compared with the 0 euro increase of the Local Cooperation Fund. And I remind you that the Local Cooperation Fund is almost EUR 113 million to share with objective criteria and consistent with the Fegamp among all the Greek municipalities. 30.6 million euros of 24.6 million, i.e. 81%, for municipalities governed by the People's Party. Well, that seems to be not enough for the government of Feijóo, it seems quite normal. And, moreover, more and more often they call us grants or aid directed to municipalities in non-competitive competition, i.e., where the adjudication criterion is that those who ask for faster expire before credit. And only in this 2021 exercise will I also give you examples, data, grants in non-competitive competition. And by the way, I'm going to hand them over to Mr. President so that they don't intend to accuse me of lying. Environmental Adviser, grants for the creation or improvement of infrastructure in the municipalities of Galicia with a population of less than 20,000 inhabitants: 2.3 million euros. You will be posted in the DOG on 8 March 2021 -- Mr President, please --. [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo gives Mr. President a role.]] On Wednesday, April 28th, the waste of the credit is reported. The deadline is open on Tuesday, March 9, at 00:01 p.m., and the credit is exhausted on Tuesday, March 9, the same day it is opened, at 00:09:43 p.m.; that is, in 9 minutes, the credit for this grant is wasted. [[Applause]] Environmental Counsellor -- again --, aid for landscaping actions aimed at municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Published on Friday, September 10, 2021. And on the website of Junta de Galicia on September 13, 2021 he literally says, "The Environmental, Territorial and Living Council opened the application deadline on Saturday and during the first few hours received about 30 requests, exhausting the budget reserved for this line." [[Applause]] Monday, August 30, 2021, non-competitive competition for grants for the creation and launch of Market Place platforms. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that is, in 2021 -- where we've been in the year 2021 -- nearly 4 million euros distributing among the fastest municipalities. And you know perfectly well that certain mayors and mayors of the People's Party had information about the date and call of these grants before they were published in the Official Journal of Galicia. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party fundamentally -- for the rest too, but of the People's Party -- many of you are concelers and concelers in certain Greek municipalities, do you think that this responds to the principles of transparency and good governance, as proposed by the laws? [[Applause]] Do you think that even if no council had any information -- that you know if they had it -- the criterion to grant these subsidies gives more opportunities to those municipalities, one out of two, who have more collaborators, more agile governments or more economic means to opt for these subsidies? Since these subsidies need, they require a series of documentation that has to be prepared and done to be able to climb it in 9 minutes, or in 10 minutes, or in an hour, just like these...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u126	...grants in non-competitive competition. Well, and on this first turn I think nothing else. I look forward to the response of the People's Party to this initiative that, let's go!, wouldn't it surprise me that it was again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u128	...negative as on previous occasions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u130	Good afternoon, Mr. President and ladies. Well, I hope that Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo's parliamentary gifts will break the will of the People's Party and the position of only three months ago in June. In accordance with Mr. Torrado's criteria, it is possible, because as amended, it is possible. If you don't, anyway, you have to wait for that 1 out of 1,000 percentage that's best not to pass the knee, and maybe there's a chance they're rectifying their position last June. In any case, we, as we did in June -- just three months ago -- will support the initiative with this amendment, which the only thing you want is quite common sense: that the Galician Union complies with the 2006 pact, which has not been resolved, that has not been modified and therefore continues to meet the commitments of the Galician Union. It's not illogical either, it's just a matter of fulfilling legality and commitments. Well, in recent times, both in Commission 1 and on occasion in this plenary session, the People's Party has talked a lot about local autonomy. She talks a lot about local autonomy but very little about her financial capacity and, of course, there is a question: is it possible for local autonomy without financial capacity? I mean, can the municipalities be autonomous when they have no economic capacity to manage their competences? I think the answer is obvious, the answer is clearly no. So what does the People's Party do when it's constantly lying about that local autonomy? Well, the only thing is to promote these policies of clientelism and arbitrariness in the management of public resources. Really, what they're trying to do is that nothing moves, i.e., to continue their policy of passivity, their policy of tolerance with arbitrary grant concessions, with these nominal concessions and without competitive competition, promoting customerism. With this adjudication of contracts, often dividing them -- as the Board of Auditors says -- and fragmenting them to avoid legal controls and adjudication procedures. Allowing, with its passivity, to base itself on local autonomy, the approval of hidden budgets and violating legality. Or, as a People's Party exvoster would say -- and I think that also excensor --, overthrowing the resources of citizenship, which is finally the one that is prejudiced by these corrupt practices. And I use it to make a little reflection: a little empathy with the orensás, and I say the orensás in an inclusive sense, I mean the men and women of Ourense. You by argument have a mantra with this of Pedro Sánchez's investment pact, which you call in your argumentary as Ana and Adriana. Well, whenever you say that about Ana and Adriana, please think a little bit about Ourense, think about how we can feel about the orensans, because there was no investment agreement there. [[Applause]] You made the mayor of a person who considered himself ill-fated for Ourense, they made mayor and co-governed with that person without any programmatic agreement, without marking any objective, with the only objective that it was to share power. And they think, every time they use that argumentary -- when we're talking about programs partially accomplished by the Socialist Party, but somewhere if I did as shown by the AP-9 -- how we're going to feel in Ourense, where that investment pact, that pact that made us the mayor was in exchange for nothing; no program, no targets and nothing thinking about citizenship. Please, a little empathy and every time they use that argument, they think, even if it's a moment -- and some people would have reason to do it because they're from there -- that they think of Ourense, the oransas in an inclusive sense, men and women. [[Applause]] Well, I'll be back. If they really cared about local autonomy, they would try to provide local entities with financial resources, which we have made little progress in recent years. The Greek municipalities are still suffering from an under-funding situation, still having insufficient funding to meet their assigned powers and those exercised without having been allocated. In the participation of municipalities in state income, Galicia still receives 20 % less than the average of the rest of the state councils, approximately 55 euros less per inhabitant. And the thing gets worse and worse, because in 2017 it was EUR 49 less per inhabitant than the rest of the state. But at the beginning of the Feijóo government was only 20 euros, now it is 275 % more crack than the rest of the state councils. And we've had fewer of our friends and our friends, and what's clear is that for Galicia the friends of Nuñez Feijóo never bring anything good, be government or be private. So it's urgent -- and we agree with the Socialist Group -- a change in the system of participation in state income, taking into account the actual cost of services. Given that providing the same services in Galicia is more expensive. Considering and weighing population nuclei -- that in Galicia we have half the nuclei of the entire state -- the dispersion of the population, the demographic pyramid -- 64 %, as we said, of the municipalities of the province of Ourense sextuplicate the inhabitants older than 64 years of age with respect to those under 16 -- this has an impact on service delivery. By changing criteria, such as the population, and the weighting of these criteria that greatly benefit the municipalities of more than 500,000 inhabitants, of which we do not currently have any. Well, then we also demand -- and it comes into the local pact -- a consensual change with the Fegamp of the joint income system. In recent years -- as Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has already spoken -- the budgetary contribution to the Local Cooperation Fund has experienced no variation. There was a slight variation in nominalistic or arbitrary splits, i.e. zero objective criteria; discretionary and arbitrary criteria are those that suffer from certain variation or modification, diminishes the objectivity against arbitrariness and clientalism. They also grow up in non-competitive competition, and I think Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo made a rather serious statement. And it's that certain People's Party councils have in these non-competitive competition calls for privileged information, and that they have that information before they leave the DOG. And I think it's serious because it implies affirmation, and especially because of one thing, because all and all of us here know that this is true, that there are municipalities that play with advantage. So we have to correct that situation that harms the municipalities. Then -- and it seems that it's the only thing that worries the People's Party -- it's necessary to define the competences of the municipalities and the powers that are of the Union, which are not yet defined. And it's not only that the vice president had already committed himself to Fegamp in February 2019. No, it's only 15 years ago that the Galician Union has committed itself to the municipalities in this delimitation of competences. But it is not the only commitment of the local pact that is still awaiting fulfillment. In the local pact signed between a mayor of the People's Party and the president of the Galician Union, the establishment of an Interterritorial Compensation Fund was established to compensate for territorial imbalances between the different parts of Galicia. Today nothing, 15 years have passed and nothing is known about the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. The cost of maintenance of health centres was assumed. Today there are still 119 health centers pending their assignment to Galician Union, as well as dozens of consultants. It also remains pending the assumption of maintenance costs of primary schools. And it's more, in some cases, as the Fegamp has denounced, in which, if the cost was assumed, there are four municipalities that are not paid to them. I mean, commitment is assumed, but then that commitment is not effective. With regard to the judges of peace, nothing at all. And in this, of course, the Law of bases of local regime gives the municipalities competence in matters of peace trials. We may need to reform it, especially as we have already warned, and as surely as your lordships, or some of them, will know, if this reform of the judicial organization goes ahead, the peace judges will have more powers, so they will cost more, so they will drown more of the councils of this country. Also, compensation mechanisms were not crafted by income reduction or cost increases suffered by the municipalities. Something especially serious during this pandemic and something that during this pandemic especially drowned the Town Councils of Galicia. Bonds have been increased, but resources have not been increased. And by the end, all I have to do is acknowledge his frankness in the answer to the question we raised in the previous debate on this initiative. I would end my intervention by posing a disjunction to Mr. President of the Board: whether justice or corruption. I think the answer, quite frankly, as it is his, very frankly, was given this Sunday.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u132	...assuming that he had as a master and referee in the local administration a person convicted of continuing prevarication. Good manager isn't, but frankly. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u133	Thank you, Mr. Tabares. [[Pause.]] A person from the House cleaning services proceeds to disinfect the floor.) Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, since it's about giving Mr. President papers, I'm going to start: "Hacienda asks the mayors to finance him with the surplus." [[Mr Prado del Río gives Mr. President a role.]] "The municipalities will have to return to Finance $3 billion even if they do not receive copper aid."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u135	I'll buy a file...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u136	Buy, buy... [[Laughter]] "Tomme does not respect the rights of the workers, who took him to the Mayor, secure him from the Labour Commissions." [[Mr Prado del Río gives Mr. President a role.]] "Sacras Routes accuses Tome of falsifying data to favor a friend UTE." [[Mr Prado del Río gives Mr. President a role.]] "I saw it. The opposition that only the mayor's daughter approved." [[Mr Prado del Río gives Mr. President a role.]] These are examples, ladies and gentlemen, of the municipalism of the Socialist Party of Galicia and the Socialist Party of Spanish Workers. They tried to steal their savings from the Town Councils, we asked them to give them Europeans to the Town Councils, and they refused them. [[Applause]] We had a hidden fund and they said no. But if they demand the municipalities that return the EUR 3,000 million of the deliveries to the account for 2021 by the excessive calculation of the Ministry. Fegamp's own president sent to the mayors that they should ask for at least two years of deficiency to prevent the breakdown in 2022. From the Socialist Party they try to give us classes of municipalism after the absolute abandonment of the municipalities in the pandemic, and, after giving them no help, negative liquidations are produced, even though the Fairy Minister promised that the municipalities would count on greater participation by the state, but, unfortunately, the minister's words remained only in that, in a holder, in a promise, in a void... as always, propaganda and advertising branded PSOE, Moncloa's factory. So far from having 500 million euros more as promised, the mayors had to deal with 25 billion less. Not to mention the EUR 750 million debt for the 2017 extra VAT and not to have a share in the distribution of European funds. In addition to other debts incurred by the municipalities, those that can lead to the breakup if they don't overflow as soon as possible. For example, IDAE funds from the Institute for Energy Diversification and Savings, which advanced the municipalities with works and facilities to improve energy efficiency. They wrote a lot of IDAE mayors to buy them as soon as those money that they moved forward. IDAE's response: "In response to your mail, we first transferred IDAE's apologies for this delay in processing your file, which only responds to the lack of human resources to be able to evaluate the entire volume of files accumulated in this phase of formalization of contracts, etc. etc "and so on." I mean, personal shortcoming, the one you claim here for health care, for education, because it's also interesting that you take care of this situation as well. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo brings here today a debate we had last June 8th. I could take the draft of the Minutes of 8 June, read it and would be the same intervention by Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, part of Mr. Tabares' intervention, I could also do the same, and I would like to have the ease that the opposition has to say one thing and the contrary at the same time. No, I was amazed today by listening to the Galego Nationalist Block in solidarity with Vesta workers, an industry that makes no wind, and after you lead all the banners against the wind and lead all the platforms against the wind in Galicia, you have to have courage and little courage to come here to do what they did today. [[Applause]] They defend the work of Ence's workers after asking him to close the Ence. They defend the work of the Galician industry after asking that Meirama, Reganosa, The Bridges be closed, and then they bring photos... it's a pity Mr. Aranguena isn't here, because there's another of Mr. Galán's with Mr. Pedro Sánchez who I'm sure he likes to have in his collection too. [[Mr Prado del Río shows a photograph in the Chamber.]] Mr. Tabares, we do not present an amendment, we present the same amendment. Why? Because it's the same initiative and we're consistent and we're not going to say anything different today than what we said in June. We've already left it for you. And you come here to say that we support an initiative of every thousand. False, I'll give you the data. False, false. See, from the LNP in full, of 62 who presented the opposition, of 62 who presented the opposition, we approved 26. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's 42 percent. From PNL in commission, of 182 -- I insist, of this legislation, eh! -- 87 we approved in these committees; that is, 47%. What does that mean? That when you bring reasonable things, which seem reasonable to us, we support them. What happens is that when there's something that seems unreasonable to us to support it, we logically vote against it. And you insist on bringing this initiative back here again, Mrs. Rumbo, to see if today, I don't know... what changed? What's changed since June 8th? Has the Government of Spain approved the new system of autonomous or local financing? No, no, no, no. Then why do you bring this initiative here today? To wash Pedro Sanchez's face. Yes, to wash Pedro Sanchez's face. Because you haven't done what you had to do, which is a new system of self-financing and therefore local funding. And you come here to talk about customerism, of arbitrariness. Well, let's get out the stuff, which I know you like very much. Look, the Provincial Deputy of Lugo, ruled by the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Yeah, take note, look. The province of Lugo has 67 municipalities, 4 ruled by the BNG, which is 5.9 %. [[Mr. Prado del Río shows a graph to the House.]] It's 20% of the agreements. I mean, it multiplies by four agreements. The PSOE has 29 municipalities, i.e. 43%; it takes 72% of the money from the conventions. And the PP, which has 32 municipalities, that is 47%, takes 4% of the Lugo MP's agreements. But what are they coming to teach us here, gentlemen? Why are they teaching us here? Really, it's incredible that you come here to say all these things. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, a repeated lie 100 times doesn't really turn. No, no. The Board distributes more than 120 million euros annually through the Local Cooperation Fund. 122 million this year. Specifically, this year 2021, the base fund, which is 112.9 million and an additional EUR 9 million fund, of which 268.907 will be allocated to the Fegamp and the rest, to finance specific needs agreed between the Board and the councils within the Financial and Economic Sub-Commission. But the help of the Galician Council to the municipalities is not limited only to the Local Cooperation Fund. You know that, but it manipulates reality and says something else. Other transfers to local entities which are collected in the budgets for 2021 must also be taken into account. And they will receive more than 400 million euros; in particular, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, 401,373,909 million euros. That's 10.5 million euros more than last year. So you can say no more money is given to the municipalities. In fact, there are still assumptions where the distribution of territorial authorities' powers is not clear enough, it requires greater concretion. A situation that has been worsened lately as a result of the pandemic, when new needs arose that were urgently addressed and that brought new expenses that all administrations had to face. But it's just that the Galician Union is also taking on inappropriate skills, you know. Not only do the municipalities assume improper competences. And from this parliamentary group and from the Galician Union we have been years, years!, repeatedly calling on the Central Government to define a new model of autonomous and local funding, to ensure the resources that each administration can count on and to take into account the particularities of the municipalities and the distribution by factors also demographic and geographic dispersion. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you have the custom of washing the face of the Government of Madrid, justifying their grievances and contempt of Galicia. And this is a further proof of that from the Government of Spain, because the Government of Spain, the Government of Sánchez, is not doing anything about local or autonomic funding. Na-da, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, nothing. And you come here to divert the debate towards the Union, to put here some figures of agreements and so on, that you too in the matter of agreements are not so well said, because where they rule... I don't tell you anything about the Deputy of Pontevedra anymore, that this is another story, but who do you want to fool? Who do you want to fool? It is the State which must clarify the system of funding for self-government and local administrations, and put aside the uncertainty that exists today on the new system of self-financing. You also said that the Galician Local Cooperation Commission had not met. Falso! In February, it gathered -- and you know it, and you know it -- to articulate a new relationship between autonomic and local funding. Look, in the People's Party we are predictable and we are again presenting the same amendment. And he said, Mr Tabares, see if they're equally different. See if it doesn't change you and you accept the amendment, because the amendment is the same. And as long as there's no new model of autonomous and local funding, hardly, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, we're going to be able to establish a new local pact. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the proposal, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, Mrs. Prado Del Río, which sometimes makes me a little bit of grace, because here comes a little fan to see if while the time is up and you're sorry to talk about the local funding on the part of the Galician board, which is the subject of debate, which we bring here today, the subject of debate, and you do escapism as always, with many other topics, to forget what we're talking about. [[Applause]] I remind you that during the time of Emilio Pérez Touriño, socialist president, the Local Cooperation Fund increased by 28 million euros in three years and for twelve years of government Feijóo the Local Cooperation Fund increased by 0 euros. [[Applause]] And you know perfectly well, when you talk about this background, that's the only fund that's the Local Cooperation Fund. Because the Local Cooperation Fund is unconditional, unconditional. And, therefore, all those funds of what you're talking about, which dominate mergers of Greek municipalities this year, 2021, 1.5 million euros, just for mergers of municipalities. For municipalities with penitentiary institutions, for comarcacalization of firearms parks. Look, Mrs. Prado Del Río, this isn't the Local Cooperation Fund. We're not in disagreement, but this isn't the same funding for all the Greek municipalities. And don't try to mess up, and you don't try to lie. [[Applause]] And look, you're talking about the central government, but it's that the Galician Union received 2,000 million euros to beat, to meet the new needs arising from the management of the crisis of the coward-19 and they didn't transfer anything to the Greek municipalities, that is, zero euros, just like the Local Cooperation Fund. And by the way, we will bring the initiatives we consider as often as we consider. And you see, because you're talking about bringing the same amendment again, I remind you that when we discussed this initiative in the previous plenary session, we accept your amendment as an addendum, and do you guys vote? On the contrary, on the contrary. They voted against it, because you do not want to start a debate for updating the local pact within the Galician Local Cooperation Commission. That is what our initiative is about, and that is what the Members of the People's Party will vote against again. They explain it to their mayors and mayors, because the mayors of the People's Party and the mayors of the People's Party also agree that the Local Cooperation Fund will increase, and they also agree to update and review the Greek Local Covenant. Yes, Mrs. Prado del Río, and you know it perfectly. And they present a replacement amendment. It's funny to me: keep moving... keep pushing what? What have they done? When are you going to bring that audit you keep talking about? Why do they vote against starting a debate? What happens is that you're a specialist in doing what they do to avoid doing anything. And look, Mrs. Prado del Río -- I don't know how to say it very well -- that you bring here the collation of Members is that, in fact, it's curious. Look, this is the division of the deputies, of the Greek MPs, of the Single Plan of Towns. The Coruña Parliament devotes 64.6 million euros; Lugo's, 21,5; Pontevedra, 42.5. And do you know how much the House of Ourense shares, the only one that is governed by the People's Party? 7.2 million euros. This is the reality. [[Applause]] And look, and I'm telling you more, that you pull out the Members, the truth is, I don't know how it doesn't get colored. Do you know what the Board of Auditors says in its 2018 audit report? That the accounts submitted by the Member of the House of Ourense have defects that prevent it from being considered as a return, and that, inter alia, 84 % of the grants granted in the financial year 2018 were made as a direct award of nominatives. This is your example and how you rule. As for the amendments, we accept a transaction that I have already talked about with the spokesman of the BNG that would remain like this: "To honour the commitments made by the Council of Galicia in the local Covenant and to begin this year the debate for an update of the local Greek Covenant, within the Galician Local Cooperation Commission." I don't understand, you'll already explain to your mayors and mayors why they're going to vote against, if it's a commitment that's signed and that the Galician Union has an obligation to comply with. He said that his vote against it can only be understood from the acceptance of nepotism as a criterion for the distribution of public resources, the resources that are all of them. And you mostly divide us between those municipalities that have governments of the People's Party. And look, the reasons for bringing this initiative back to me in my first intervention: 30.6 million euros, distributed to me in 2020, of which 81%, i.e. 24,6 million euros, were for municipalities governed by the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u140	And grants in non-competitive competition do not determine any equality so that municipalities can opt on equal terms, but simply for those who are often warned by you and others who have better means of material and human resources. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u141	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia to initiate the process of reversion to the public of residences of senior public ownership and private management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u142	The motion for a non-law has tabled an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega Otero, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal: Amendment of amendment must be replaced by the resolution of the non-legislative proposal by the following content:"The Greek Parliament urges the Joint Committee of Galicia to increase the number of social policy inspectors, as well as to progressively increase the number of residential public ownership and direct management squares within the framework of a new model of care, equipped with sufficient material and human resources for their proper development."]] To make the same expression, you have the floor of Mrs Rodil of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u143	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today, since BNG, we have brought this initiative to speak, as you know, of the right to a dignified old age and, above all, of a new model of residences and care in our country. But to start talking about the new one, first we have to talk about what's going on. A model, as you know, which, if it's characterized by something, is, firstly, by the lack of public squares, and especially by the general lack of squares, far from the recommendations of the World Health Organization, and, above all, by a model cooped by the private company. Eight out of every ten squares in our country are private. A model, as you know, which is very lucrative and appetizing because it drains public funds through concertation and the provision of public services. A concert that costs us all 74 million euros a year, two out of every three euros of the money that is budgeted in 2021 for the operation of public centres of older people. Programme 312D: two out of three euros are going directly to release the private sector. That shortage of squares and, above all, that deficit of public squares makes our country able to access a public residence square have a waiting list for more than two years. And that they are funding themselves, to fill these gaps and deficits, private squares through derivations or the payment of residence checks. In the BNG we have made it clear that it is necessary, therefore, to change the model and, above all, to strengthen the network of strong public services, as a guarantee of a fundamental right as is the right to a dignified old age, in a country, let's remember, as our 25% of the population is now over 65 years old and rising. What we want to put today is the focus, from BNG, on that other path of the current model of residences that are the public infrastructures managed by private companies. We're talking about residences of autonomous public ownership, therefore owned by the Galician Union, but managed by private companies and entities. Ten, ten privatized residences, of the 41 that are collected in the Single Register of Social Services Providers to Galician Union. According to yesterday's data on that single record, which is data from the Social Policy Council, eight of these ten residences are in the hands of the DomusVi group, although the company talks about how it manages or manages sweets. Someone's mind, we've already asked questions in this chamber to solve that doubt. Let's leave him there. Eight that would be officially in the hands of DomusVi and two in the Valdegodos Foundation. In order to have a broader and more complete picture of the situation of that model, of the only 4,960 public residential squares in our parents, the Galician Union holds 3,900. Of them, 1.245 are privatised in ten, as I say, centers. Privateized savings, of these 1.245 privatized squares, 83% are controlled by the two companies, the two main companies of the DomusVi, Geriatrics and Quavitae group. 1,032 squares in eight public centers, including the residence of Concepción Arenal da Coruña, as they know and know all of their lordships, judicially investigated by the death of a user in 2019. But also the residence of Larouche, that of Larax, that of Ribeira, that of Castro Ribeiras de Leira, that of Bembriva or that of Bande, for only a few examples distributed by the Greek geography. And today, from BNG, we want to address this matter for two prisms or put two questions on the table: The first, that tremendous business that has been set up, as everyone knows, DomusVi in our country, the largest in the Spanish state. Among other things, in order to understand that tremendous business that has been set up, we have to go back to the ballast that they gave in 2010 with the exit of the Sogareseso Galician Union, the subsequent disappearance of savings boxes, 9,000 million public euros through, from which we haven't recovered a very small part, and the later sale of the old Geriatrics to international investment funds. And the second question, which is a lie that private management is better attended, or cheaper for public buildings. And I'm going to use -- because we've also talked enough about it -- to give some creativity to the interventions as well, I'm going to use your own arguments, to defend that all the groups of the House, but in particular the People's Party, vote favourably on this initiative that we bring today at the BNG and that asks for something simple, concrete and clear, that the Galician Union is to take the necessary steps to get the public ownership centers that are now in private hands, therefore privatized, to become the direct management of the Galician Union. We don't say tomorrow or last, but we're going to take the necessary measures to reverse the direct public management of these centres. The first argument is that it has both the management model and what matters is quality care. Then we have to strengthen the audience. Let's see, pandemic data in public residences. It cost, but eventually they got the Companions of Public Square, because this Parliament didn't provide us with the data. But it's everyone's, it's public: it has, I insist, the management model, what matters is quality care. The data from the pandemic tell us that of the 790 people who died with covid-19 in our country who were residents, 790 in total, 80 were users of the public network, only 10%. Half of these 80 people died in privatized centers in the hands of DomusVi. That is, of 41 centers, 11 privatized concentrate more than half of the deaths. That's not a coincidence, it's a brutal disproportion, I see about the presence that this company has in all public-owned companies. It's not a coincidence, it's a result of a model based on precarious work and service itself. From the business, after all, and that's what we knew, we know because it's been denounced for years by the workers and family members of residential users. Repeated breaches of the regulations, complaints -- I insist -- of staff and families that have been made clear. And I took an example, because time is limited, precisely in that residence I was talking about at the beginning, in the Arenal conception of the Crown. A public residence, privatized, managed by DomusVi, denounced by workers in 2019 and judicially investigated by the death of a user when he did not count, as required by law, with a nurse 24 hours. We don't know what's going to happen judicially or correspond to this House, but it's absolutely unacceptable for the Galician Union to shave up and make or try to make him think he has no responsibility and can therefore be inhibited from his character in the trial. What we do know, because we were able to consult you as Members, we know that Mr Tabares and myself, is that the Galician Union opened a file, imposed a sanction on DomusVi for that in January 2020. Do you know how much it costs to leave without nurses for 6 nights a home of the most privatized public that you have for regulation to have with nurses 24 hours? A fine of €3,001, which, soon paid and assumed responsibility, is 1,800; less than it costs you to hire a nurse 24 hours between salary and social contributions. It's cheap to break the rules, and this is the opposite of an element of deterrence; this is a closed and paid file, firm. That's where we better understand the veto on the investigation of the incident in the residences during the covid -- as the BNG, vetoed by the People's Party -- the permanent and constant trap to which we can consult public information or even know how many people died during this pandemic, with data disaggregated by centres referred to in those private residences. This attitude of the PP is only to serve as a parapet to protect the interests of that company that has names and names, which is DomusVi. And it's not the only Arenal Concepción, see Laraxe, see Larouco. The second argument: people don't care who manages, the important thing is efficient management of public resources. Then we have to strengthen the audience, too. More cost in the concert, and this is not an opinion, are data extracted from the latest Imserso report, where we are told that it is completely false than privatizing the service is cheaper for the Public Service. [[Applause]] And besides, it's accounted for, how much is that over-the-counter cost we pay to pay for the profits of that business in private, which is 8% with respect to the provision of service in the public, 900 euros more per square -- data from the Imserso --. But it's not just the Imserso. For those who want to read it and have time, there is the report of the Board of Auditors, which not only alerts you of those unjustified differences between the prices paid to Joina in one residence and other, even belonging to the same group and concessional regime, but also warns of the failure of the Autonomic Administration to control companies. I don't have time now, then if you want to read them that page 82 of the Board of Auditors. It's entrepreneurial, it's indecent, it's unacceptable. But for BNG -- the most important -- it's inhuman. In the BNG we have made it clear that we cannot go along the same path as we have been for so many years, that what we need to guarantee a fundamental right, such as care and care for extremely vulnerable people -- how they are people with a very high degree of dependence as those in the homes of older people --...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u145	... -- finish -- what we have is to strengthen the public. Because people's attention can't be a business, it has to stand aside from the logic of the market, and that's what we want with this initiative today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u147	For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u149	Thank you, President. Well, the German People's Party Government continues to mark the issue of senior residences with a black and dark cover so that we don't know the figures of deaths for each center. Also so we don't know who's been on the committee I've known for a year working on a residential model that we've been completely unaware of today. But something we do know, and it's that certain characteristics like, for example, the size of residences -- that we know it's very important as the experts are pointing out -- it doesn't matter much to the Greek Government, because -- according to it looks like -- those that are going to build news have more than a hundred squares each, most of them; and even the Feijóo Cloud itself has recently announced. The platform of family members and residents defines the new model, in which they talk, among other matters, of which I have just commented on; and in which textually they exist -- and in which I quote textually, and I have already repeated it in the past Plenary, which we also brought to this House --... "a comprehensive account of what has happened in the residences during the pandemic is required in parliaments." Here, lords, no story, no data, no new model after more than a year and a half of pandemic. Why does this German government run away from transparency? [[Applause]] If everything was all right, why hide data and reality? [[Applause]] We don't understand today why they ran the residency investigation commission. We are legitimate representatives of citizenship and when we ask for the deaths data in each center, the Government of Greece looks elsewhere, whistles, like it doesn't go with them, and doesn't answer. But who is really missing about it is not us, it is not the Socialist Party, but it is seriously lacking about it to citizenship, which is really, together with the professionals themselves and experts in the sector, who is really demanding this data. And our duty is to ask and continue to argue for this information to come to this House, which is the House of All the Greeks and the Greeks. We continue with the subject because it really requires a deep debate on this issue, which will determine the next decades, and that hopefully we will all be bigger. But if you had to define with a few words the work of the Council for Social Policy, the Government of Greece in this matter, in the area of residence, you would say: Darkness and lack of coordination between areas. Above all, in two fundamental areas, the area of social policy and the area of health, which are vital for the well-being that we really need to guarantee to the older people who live in homes, who have to be their home. We believe that the type of ownership of the centre is decisive and influences a great deal, but not least that other very important issues, such as, for example, the number of inspectors, which, together with the fact that -- as I said before -- the Government of the People's Party of Wales is carrying a spiral of excessive privatization, makes even the Board of Auditors immediately arrest the alarm by releasing data as an abismal fall of inspections since the year 2010 ahead in the second autonomous community with fewer inspectors per inhabitant from all over Spain. The new residence model has to be inside a new care model. We also need to discuss everyday issues that directly affect the well-being of older people, such as, for example, the right to privacy, the simple fact that a worker has to call before the door, before entering a person's room, a resident, for an example, but there are many. During the last decade of government the People's Party has not created a single public square of direct management, betting on another type of model. And I've already said it in the past Plenary, if this Government bets to privatize, by this model of residence, a privatized model, it's obliged to compensate for this fact by increasing supervision through the competent inspection body. And what really happened and is happening in Galicia was totally the opposite, which with the Government of the People's Party, as the private and concerted squares increased, the number of inspections decreased. And it doesn't have to be very smart -- I said in the previous plenary -- or to understand this matter, that the formula is very dangerous and that it's paying attention to the proper supervision of care when the number of privatized squares increases and the number of inspections is low. That's why we need to increase the number of inspection technicians, as well as the number of public direct management squares. And more variables need to be taken into account, not exclusively the decompensation of the type of title. We must reverse it, but have a broader view. So, for example, in the initial project of the seven hyper-announced residences years ago, it's understood that it's outdated, that it's pre-pandamy. So we need to update this type of model. Question: have you updated it?, have you already got a new residence model on the table, where these seven residences, which is imminent the project -- or that's being sold, I don't know if they've been announcing it for many years now --... are they going to follow a model of residences that is continuing from the past framed by macroresidence? We want to talk about these kinds of issues, we don't understand why they get away from this debate. Another very important problem, one of the things that really concerns the citizenry, is the waiting time to get a place of residence. Let's not forget one question: the demand for senior residences in Galicia exceeds that of before the vault, and tell it its own data. The deterioration suffered by many people in the pandemic speeds up applications, let's take this matter into account and get ready. Because the problem is the waiting time to get a residential square but then, apart from spending a lot of time -- even 2 years -- to have a residential square, many people find themselves in sadness and the surprise that they might grant the square to 150 kilometers from their place of origin, their place of residence, where their families are, their friends. And this is totally intolerable, and this is where we have to work, too, gentlemen. We have to talk about these issues that directly affect older people. We don't have any data either... for example, really, the price of the concerted square that they pay from Junta, we don't know how many men and women there are also in every residential center even, so basic data to know the level of institutionalization by sex. Nor what pathologies they have or what medication, diets, care they need. Why are such basic issues, but they are so useful to professionals in the sector, don't we? Aren't you interested in knowing the percentages of cases with dementia? Maybe that's because then we'd be breaking the ratios, because then we'd have to talk about different types of ratios in residences for these kinds of people affected by dementia? And why is there no clear evidence of who is part of the Sociosanitary Committee that will define this new model of residential care over the next decades and that will affect us all and all? Let's never forget it. Another important and urgent issue is the publicized socio-health coordination between residences and the health field. Aren't they even able to regulate or decide if you can access medical residency records or not? Why in a few yess and nos? These kinds of issues have to be rigorous and regulated. The state government is already working -- I said it in the past plenary -- with many more concrete measures that I think are what we have to talk about here. These kinds of issues are also promoted by the State Government, but they are considered as minimum. Autonomous communities can improve but never lower these criteria. So we have to put our batteries in Galicia because Galicia had to lead the position of being the oldest autonomous community and by its own characteristics, as the dispersion itself. But the German Government, through the decision of the Social Policy Council, is waiting for work to be done alone, and we cannot afford this matter or be complicit. The new residential model has to be within a new model of care that has resources and pushes these resources so that older people who do not want to go to a residence are not forced to go to a residential center, which it implies. And delay as much as possible and avoid institutionalization. We've already talked about the new care model, the proposal of our party, the PSdG, the past Pleno. And now we are grateful that the Nationalist Block brings this issue back again, and I hope that there are many more debates on the Welsh residential model, because we consider it justifiably that a lot of talk is about this issue and that lots of proposals are made on that issue. It may not be very easy to talk about this, but it is necessary, and we regret that the Councillor would rather ask his Members to ask the same question in committee and in full about the summer camps with which it is happening and with which we are living right now. We can't turn our backs on reality, we'll continue to fight for the rights of older people, because today it's their turn and tomorrow they'll touch us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u151	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u153	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start by thanking Mrs. Rodil for her creativity. I appreciate it because, since I can't thank you for coherence, at least creativity. Because I think that any galley or any galley that would follow this session today, or that would follow the course of the BNG over the past 40 years, you have to make it clear that the BNG acronyms respond to the Galego Negationist Block. Look, it's known by everyone that BNG's propensity to not for not, to oppose everything that doesn't fit into its always exclusive, always maximalistic approaches, but I think they're radicalizing so much this negative stance that they now also oppose their own legislative approaches, those of BNG. Law 13/2008 of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia, Article 29: " Forms of provision of social services. Social services will provide us with the Greek public administrations through the following formulas: first, direct management; second, indirect management within the framework of the regulation of public sector contracts; third, through the social concert scheme; fourth, through agreements with non-profit entities." Approved by the bipartisan, the PSOE government and the BNG, where they set up four management models for these services, three of them, by the way, what they call private today. One is surprised that the BNG criticizes the regulations it has approved, but, of course, it can think: just like they were discrepancies with its government partner that had to be repeated, but, hey, no, it was the BNG who had the competences in social matters, exercised through that famous Vice-Presidentship of Equality and Welfare. It's surprising that the BNG criticizes a law driven by the highest representative in the Galician board that never had the BNG, and that criticizes a management model that you included in the standard. Of course, one can think, well, they included theoretically, but in practice they did something else. But, look, it's even more surprising that this privatization model that today has been criticised as hard as Mr. Quintana's most used to manage most of the oldest residences he's put into service. Mrs. Rodil, you seem to be upset to be reminded of your management, the public model that stands for the BNG. Look, BNG public management, open and managed residences through public management that you say: 4 residences; number of direct management squares: 240 squares; privatized, private management, which you say today, number of residences opened by BNG: 5, one more. But that's right, 607 private squares. Your Honor, I have to think: Will Mr. Quintana betray the management model of the BNG? Was Mr. Quintana an ultraliberal from Chicago School, camouflaged as a nationalist? Because I knew that Mr. Quintana... is it true that he likes camouflage... remember when he camouflaged BNG myths as if they were meeting with the biggest and the others? But I don't know if I also camouflaged these things. But, no, no, I want to remind you, 71% of the squares you've opened, privatized; 65% in whose hands you are today DomusVi. The most surprising thing, Your Honor, is that there was a current BNG Member who supported that privatising drift, the eternal renewal of Welsh politics, Mrs. Ana Pontón, who is true that she is renewing, because she has been renewing the seat in the House for 20 years, but always, always with a new, fresh face, and bringing an important revolution here. [[Protests.]] [[Applause]] Finally, six consecutive legislations renewing. BNG stuff! But, well, I want to think that at that time Mrs. Pontón was a raza, she didn't have the gallons, and one might think that, after the purge of the BNG, after the loss of the Government, that foreseeable consequence of the victory of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, so, hey!, would you go back to the essences, right? and the resignation of Mr. Quintana's privatization model. [[Murmurs.]] I thought, therefore, that the new BNG, that BNG emerged from the ashes of the bipartisan, because it should definitely bet on the direct management of social services in those institutions where it governs. But they're surprised, ladies and gentlemen, the data believe everything else. It turns out that the BNG of Ana Pontón is the most privatising force in Galicia... yes, yes, it's the one who best practices that model that you have defined as indecent and entrepreneurial. Official data, Your Honor, so they don't argue, because I know they like the data. You rule in the Deputation of Lugo with the PSOE, right? You said, the Galician Union handed over 10 of your 41 residences to the public. Deputy of Lugo: 5 residences, 5 outsourced, 100 percent, 100 percent, Your Honor. I think you're still ruling, aren't you, in the Depute of Lugo? Ah, repeat it, for we're talking about Ribadio, you have no problem. Look, 5 outsourced residences. By and by, residences with management in the hands of a religious order, of the perfidious Catholic Church, Mrs. Rodil. The other three -- The Foundry, Castroverde and Ribadeo -- in the hands of private companies. But you're not surprised, Your Honor, because today you bring here this request that we regain management for the public, while the Deputy in which you govern is privatizing Meira's residence, the residence of Meira. Your Honor, 10 days ago, you've been privatizing a public residence in the Deputy of Lugo, and today you come here asking us to adopt your model, which turns out to be the public. The public model of Ribadeo, Your Honor? Is that the public model, where 92 percent of staff are private and 8% are public staff? Because, hey, some BNG family has to keep plugging in, and I understand that we do better through Deputation. Man, it's funny, uh, it's funny, it's funny! [[Applause]] But, man, today, because you were talking about coherence, today, this morning, this morning, this morning, not 10 days ago, not 10 years ago, you were discussing in the Deputation the incorporation of Sarria's residence into the model of Deputation, right? It's a great opportunity to adopt the approved agreement -- by the way, with the only favourable votes of the People's Party -- in the MP, and to reverse, because Sarria's residence is also privatized, but they can reverse it. Man, yeah, man, yeah, Sarria's model I know you like it! By the way, since you're so interested in Sarria, tell your representative in Sarria that it's ugly that you abstain from membership and, on the other hand, voting that if you do in the Sarria Town Hall, in these coherent lessons that BNG gives us, it's not very elegant. [[Applause]] But do you want more examples? There's no problem, because so far what they believed in this data is that BNG and PSdEG are just as privatizers. And I said BNG was the most privatiser of all. Home Help Service: percentage of BNG governments that privatized the service, 46.6%; percentage of socialist governments that privatized the service, 45.5%, 1.1 minus; percentage of PP governments that privatized that service, 29.8%. And the privatizers are us! It's certainly a curious thing, Your Honor, certainly a curious thing. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm really starting to take a little bit of what the BNG mentality is, whoever pays attention today understands it. Look, you first created an absolutely precarious welfare consortium, and then they're asking for improvements in the working conditions. You first ask for the closure of the companies and then put them on the sign to demand employment for the workers. And you privatize the residences so you can then come to Parliament and ask the PP to return to the public the residences you privatize. It's a curious model of yours. This data, Your Honor -- because this I give you is data -- all they show is the hypocrisy of BNG and PSOE. The same hypocrisy that underpins criticism of an autonomous government, the self-government that best managed the pandemic throughout Peninsular Spain, the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. I don't say it, so do the data. Galicia, Your Honor, is the autonomous community with a better survival rate in senior homes, in public and in private homes. Percentage of deceased persons by number of residences: Galicia, 4 %; Spain average, 10 %. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a collective success, repeatedly denied by those who boast a representation of Galicia that the Greek people have been denying them for decades. I really think it's hard to explain that you want to monitor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u154	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u155	...now finished, president-- they want to monitor who best managed this pandemic, while they veto a government investigation with the worst management in the vault of the first world. That is something that you should clarify, and stop practicing this policy [...], or, if you prefer to vote, this policy of sails, because, indeed, what the BNG has shown today is that it makes politics according to where the wind blows. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos Couñago. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u157	Thank you, President. Look, Mr Pazos, if there's anything I've made clear to you today about your intervention, it gives you exactly the conditions under which the 1.245 people who are in those residences are found, exactly the same. [[Applause]] Whether or not companies meet the requirements of conditions, if they comply with the personnel ratios that require regulation... I did give data here, uh!, data of repeated non-compliances, sanctioned by the administration itself and in a very cheap way. It's better to violate the rule than to hire a nurse worker to ensure that in the evenings the people who live in those residences are cared for. I don't want to see it like that, eh! but I don't want it for anyone, and my responsibility, like that of all the people we're here, regardless of the political group we belong to, is to monitor the conditions in which people are in public services, whatever management model they are. [[Applause]] I'm what I do. You don't care exactly. And there is everyone, there is everyone! [[Applause]] Allah is All-Embracing, All-Embracing, [[Applause]] And only three questions about what was said: The first one, I laughed when you were talking about what the evil Block did when it was with the Vice President of the Galician Union, and those residences that were built in this country and which were opted for a private convention model. Why? Because it lets us see how the People's Party acts in all public services. You know what BNG couldn't do then? To make an agreement that has been signed since 2001 and with a duration of five years, the People's Party -- I don't know if it sounds like-- Fraga Iribarne. In 2001, and was in force until 31 December 2006, a partnership agreement was formed between the Health and Social Services Council and the Economic and Business Council and the IGAPE for the implementation of private-initiative residential centres for adults in the Autonomous Community. [[Applause]] Among other things, they come from these agreements, and I tell you that they are a total of 20 projects and centers, some of which I will quote: the Sarquavitae de Santiago, today DomusVi de San Lázaro; the [...] in Lugo, which is that of the Hill of King, also in the hands of DomusVi; or Geriatrics Ribadumuria, for some examples. It's the same, exactly what they did to extend the agreements with Opus Dei centers that separate women from men in the classrooms, and that they couldn't lay down either because you have the bad habit of leaving everything tied up and well tied up. And with rather later durations. [[Applause]] That's what the Galego Nationalist Block was not able to do, which is to lay down its shrapnels to keep eating the private, Opus Dei and the segregationist centers. So you can't talk to me here about anything, for example, anything at all! [[Applause]] And I quote the audit report from the Board of Auditors. The audit report of the Board of Auditors, which is suspended, free and in English for anyone who wants to read it. [[Murmurs.]] And I was saying at the beginning of my intervention that not only does it dine, not only is it eaten with obscene amounts: 74 million euros public is more than you invest in a year at Risga. It's more than you were supposed to invest in building seven public residences, which were said to be 45 million euros. [[Applause]] That's what we've been draining from the public archives to DomusVi and other private companies. Efficiencies and guarantees of public management that respect people's fundamental rights, because not only is private baking, but it's also looking elsewhere. [[Applause]] And I'm going back to the Board of Auditors Control Report, where it's literally said that the Public Administration doesn't even watch for the fulfilment of the requirements of these concessions and concerts. The Board of Auditors' Report literally says: "The Administration does not verify that the contractor fulfils all the obligations of a social and tax nature in relation to workers, such as the quotas of Social Security and the IRPF, despite the fact that the clauses requirement that the contractor should send the accreditation documentation together with the final invoice. The administration shall pay the invoice without supervising that compliance." Then here a lot of chest blows with the residents workers, right, don't look the other way, when they aren't even being respected in public-sector residences! Not the private ones but the concessions and those arranged by the Galician Union. [[Applause]] "The control carried out in the territorial offices for the proposal and approval of the payment of the invoice shall be limited to the verification of the incidences of which the contracting entity reports. Nor is there any control over the revenue received from users as a share of the service." You can literally say that it's charged by two people who occupy two squares, when the person moves from one residence to another because it's the same person occupying two squares in two services. This is inhuman, indecent, inefficient and unacceptable! And you can come here and talk to me up to Burundi, if you like, which will still be the same. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u158	Finish, please. Mrs. Rodil, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u159	The amendment. We proposed a transaction proposal to the Socialist Party spokesperson, we also agreed to strengthen inspection services. And we'll talk, because I think we still have a bit of a margin, in case we can reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u160	Okay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-law proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia to develop a cross-sectoral plan for the prevention of suicide
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u161	No amendments were tabled to this initiative. To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u162	Thank you, President. When a diabetes gets worse, it can result in blindness or amputation of an end; when a sclerosis gets worse, it derives, among other things, from loss of movement; when a dementia gets worse memory loss, among other cognitive capabilities; when a cancer gets worse, it can end up losing its life. Just like when a mental illness gets worse, since when suicide is the most serious form of mental illness, 90% of suicides have a mental disorder. What differs from other diseases is that today in Galicia, if we go to a hospital with cancer symptoms, we will take care and treatment throughout the illness. If we come with symptoms of diabetes, we will take care and treatment throughout the disease. If we come with symptoms of sclerosis, we will have ensured treatment and follow-up throughout the disease. However, if we come with symptoms of mental disorder and suicidal or self-lytic action, it will not be that way. What is not spoken does not exist; what does not exist does not face; what is not faced is not resolved. Suicide is a hidden pandemic. Even today, in the 21st century, and with all due respect, but we're used to saying the word "suicide." We have to do that, yes, very carefully, very rigorously; but the fact is that this social stigma has done and continues to do a lot of damage to survivors. Survivors are those relatives and direct friends who survive the people who commit suicide. A hard stigma that causes in most cases pathological pain that does not allow affected people to overcome the event. Galicia, 2021, with almost one suicide a day, last year, not 2020, died 307 people. For every 100,000 inhabitants, 13.11% are killed in Galicia, when the average in Spain is 7.7% per 100,000 inhabitants. But, look! because official figures can be broken down because, according to experts on the subject, many deaths recorded as accidents can be suicides; and they estimate that even by 2 or 3 the current data could be increased, when the current data itself indicates that Galicia exceeds by more than 6 points in the middle of the country. Clearly, in Galicia we have a problem with this. When we talk about suicides, Galicia takes second place in the fateful state ranking, followed by Asturias. These figures triple deaths from traffic accidents, for example, and in addition, in the last year, data from attempted suicide among youth have been shot. And experts indicate that mental health consultations have increased in youth. That is why we consider it very important to pay attention to this. And here I want to stop. Because alerting the mental health problems that affect and will affect our youth, on the part of the Socialist Party, on the part of the PSdG, we want to urgently ask the Government of Greece, please take this issue into account urgently, a specific strategy with sufficient resources to be practical for this sector of the population so vulnerable, for youth, for all the events experienced in this pandemic. Because they had to live the effects of social networks, the social isolation of the pandemic with their equal, the unfair stigma of society against youth by associating non-compliance with restrictions with the extreme stretch of population, the lack of labour opportunities and the impossibility of emancipation, etc. etc Please, it's very important to provide our youth with easy access and specific programs and prevention and treatment adapted to these ages. Besides, we have to be clear on a question. Just as first comes the earthquake and then the tsunami, first came the pandemic and then we'll see the side effects on mental health, as the experts predict. Today we still have no real data on what the pandemic will really suppose in people's mental health. And that's why we have to prepare before, possibly, one of the biggest mental health tsunamis in recent times. The most serious way -- I repeat -- of mental illness is suicide. We have to show people who are in that tunnel where at the end of the tunnel only see the suicide that there are exit doors on the side. But for that we have the responsibility, together, to provide human and material resources with a cross-sectional and multisectoral plan for the prevention of suicide that can actually be executed. The German Government's plan of the Vigilante People's Party did not go into practice, as the mental health movement specialists demanded, and so did they. In fact, some days ago, mental health associations reported that the prevention of suicide is lacking in Galicia. That's why we have to row all together in this matter. First, we must be aware of that; and second, we must compensate for all these years in which it has not acted as required by the matter. So, from the Socialist Group, we want to propose that, in addition to a powerful plan for the prevention of suicide on a multisectoral basis and sufficient resources, it is necessary -- this is very important -- an annual report that includes suicide data but also attempted data. And why? Because we have to feed information on the agents involved in this issue. And the vision of the problem will never be real if we don't include suicide attempts, because it's the first predictor of what might happen, which is completed suicide, as well as taking into account other relevant factors and data demanded by experts on the subject; for example, the type of employment, among others, to know if there really are more vulnerable professions than others. The Government of Spain is greatly increasing efforts to update strategies, with common lines for autonomous communities, among which attention and prevention of suicide. Therefore, the commitment of each of the autonomous communities to develop each mental health strategy line will be important. The president of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, made on several occasions that mental health must be a state priority, assuming part of the Interterritorial Council that priority, with a real commitment to establishing the demands of fulfilling commitments to autonomous communities. But all this must go through the allocation, logically, it would budget enough in the budgets of the Galician Union, given the full competition we have here in health care. We regret that the current German Mental Health Plan did not have the momentum it really needs in Galicia given the high prevalence of suicides, as well as the need for mental health care. But that's necessary to compensate and reverse the lack of resources on the part of the Greek Government. The Ministry is committed to the agreement reached at the Interterritorial Council. So it would therefore be important for coordination and understanding in this key matter. And let's propose for all this to the German Government to work, firstly, for this transversal and cross-sectoral plan for suicide prevention, with sufficient resources to be executed; secondly, an annual report on suicide data, attempts and all the information experts need to work hard. And it couldn't end this intervention without giving thanks to all the professionals involved in suicide intervention, both those known by all of them, as can be the professionals of psychology -- among whom I share the profession -- psychiatry, as primary care doctors, teachers in schools, as well as journalists who collaborate in responsibly conveying information to avoid the so-called effect. And, like not?, a prominent place, of course, that we rarely remember in this role, the forces and bodies of security, firefighters and civil protection, among others; as entities and social movements that day by day fight this hidden pandemic in absolute silence. Thank you, strength and resources for all these professionals, and that among all of us we can end this public health problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Carreira Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u164	Good afternoon to all and to all. Thank you, Mr. President. As the representative of the Socialist Group took the initiative, suicide was not so much a taboo of what little was being talked about and what nothing was known. Today, if there is something that is clear, it is that suicide is a serious public health problem and that also directly questions us to all the sectors involved. In recent years, in the last few decades, we are witnessing an increase, a deterioration, in suicide figures at global level and in which Galicia is neither a wing nor an ally. And although last year's data is better than previous years, in 2020 307 people died because of this, 3,652 people died from suicide in the last decade, according to data from the Immelga. The suicide rate in our country is 13% per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to 7.9 in the state. And all of this without forgetting the estimate made by the World Health Organization itself, which calculates that 20 attempts are made for each completed suicide. Suicide is now one of the main causes of death for non-natural causes in our country, it affects every one of the age ranges, but it also hits extremely hard on the middle ages of life, with devastating figures in the 1950s. And it's one of the main causes of preventable death among youth, among those under 30. It's overwhelming, painful figures, but I want them to be reflected here. And we can't forget the influence that the covid-19 pandemic has on mental health either. The isolation caused by social distancing and the confinements that have taken place, the uncertainty about the future, the concern for health, both by themselves and by people close by, the anguish, anxiety, depression, the fear of the future, about the consequences that this pandemic will leave on both health and in the economic and social spheres... have been and are being very hard months for many people. And not only because of illness itself, which also, people who have stayed in unemployment, people who have been in an ERTE, who have seen their vital conditions worsen. And it is that many times, when we talk about mental health, we tend to focus on the health, but there is much more behind us than we can forget: unemployment, precarious employment, abusive working days, wages and benefits, which are insufficient, the difficulty in paying bills, also that of light; to know whether you will be able to feed your daughters, social isolation, the disappearance of leisure time, socialization, or whether this leisure is necessarily linked to consumption, when no money comes to being able to consume. Social determinants have a direct impact on people's health and they can't fail to be cared for in any case. And governments need to work to combat inequalities, to fight poverty -- not the poor -- to seek the benefit of the majority instead of favoring the greater profit of friendly companies over social interest. Because when we talk, when we talk earlier about the bill of light, we also talk about health and mental health, and not just about ideological confrontation. [[Applause]] And already returning to the concrete of this initiative, it's been four years since the Government of the Galician Union introduced in this House the Greek suicide prevention plan, and the question remains in the air as soon as it has been advanced since that, which are the improvements introduced since the adoption of this plan. Because what becomes clear four years later is that the People's Party continues to be buried in its maximum of demonstrating that the thermal role of what is thrown into it, because it's not worth adopting plans for them to then fail. Four years after the adoption of this plan, we continue to have a situation in the dire state of health, the staffing is more than insufficient, scarce resources, and research in this field too continues to be tremendously reduced, with overburdened primary care, as many as are forced to see it as a repetitive speech, with USM at the limit of its capacity. Primary care at first instance and later mental health units are the points for initial contact with patients, places that should be fundamental in early detection and first-line intervention. We have mental health units today that are making the first appointments for psychology consultations six months after the derivation from primary care is carried out, and that the review of that consultation is carried out again for six months later. This isn't a way of talking, it's not that I want to round up the data. It's that today in Galicia there are USMs in which the exam appointments for psychology take place by March 2022 because there's no gap before. I'd like to know what kind of attention, follow-up, can be given to mental health with two visits a year. Effective assistance is the one that is accessible at the moment you need, because then the approach is much more difficult or, as in the case you occupy us, it may come too late. No increased resources, personnel, devices is possible. Primary care must play a key role in the detection, prevention and follow-up of these patients; but detection, prevention and follow-up cannot be performed due to lack of resources. Mental health units have to have more staffing, as well as clinical psychologists that allow attention in a reasonable time. Because it's very difficult to provide quality mental health assistance with primary care agendas of 40 patients per day, 50, 60, or mental health units where review appointments have to force patients to spend six months in limbo. As Mrs. Friend said in the motion debate on primary care: let's let the professionals work. I'd almost give him a ride. They allow professionals to work in quality. [[Applause]] Suicide is an avoidable death. Each and every one of the people who commit suicide is still a collective failure, because we are not able to detect, prevent, assist, accompany, try. The prevention of suicide must have a priority in public policies, not only in health care, as I said before, because it has a totally dramatic social cost. From the Galego Nationalist Block we will support this initiative of the Socialist Group, because in order to solve a problem the first step, as Mrs Ortega said, is to visualize it and analyze it, then to be able to act on it. We share the need for these prevention plans but, above all, the need to comply with them, to execute them and not to continue with the People's Party's modus operandi to approve things that later remain in the drawer. Since the BNG we have made it clear that mental health cannot continue to wait and we cannot continue to endure the continued loss of more than 300 people every year, in a situation that is totally intolerable because -- I repeat -- these are preventable premature deaths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Rodríguez-Vispo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking again about an extraordinarily sensitive subject like suicide. A subject that concerns us as a society, as political representatives that we are, for the suffering that it brings with us so much for the person who tries to do so -- and sometimes it gets it -- as well as for all his family and friends. Many of us, unfortunately, throughout our lives have had the experience of meeting someone who has lost his life for this cause, and we are not alien at all to the suffering that this situation entails. According to the World Health Organization, it continues to be one of the major public health problems. Suicide remains one of the leading causes of death worldwide. Every year more people lose their lives because of suicide than because of many diseases, and also because of wars, murders. In 2019 more than 700,000 people were killed, that is, 1 in 100 deaths. Therefore, paying attention to suicide is always important. But now even more so, they told the people who preceded me in the use of the word, and it's just more for the moments we live, the 18 months we live in a pandemic. Because many of the risk factors associated with suicide remain very present. There are a lot of countries in the world with this problem, and currently only 38 of them have developed a national suicide prevention strategy, others are not involved in this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has become involved, and Galicia... the initiative you ask for today, for us to arrive late, comes four years late. Because the German Government is not alien at all to Galician suicide rates. He has already presented in this Parliament, in particular in the plenary session of 26 September 2017, the suicide prevention plan in Galicia. By the way, it should be remembered that at that time -- I say to the honourable Members who were not in the past legislation -- the only community that had a plan of these characteristics was the Valencian Community, and Galicia was the second autonomous community throughout Spain in developing a plan of these characteristics. A plan establishing coordination mechanisms for the different bodies to work together in the prevention, management, intervention and support of the people and families in this situation. In 2019, in the past legislation, the Director General of Health Care explained to us in the Health Commission -- you, Mrs. Ortega and Mrs. Carreira, were not on that commission, but many of your colleagues, who can explain it -- and told you about the progress that was being made with the creation, for example, of the Interdepartmental Coordination Council for the Prevention and Care of Suicide Conduct in the first half of 2018, and the actions carried out until mid 2019. Actions and measures taken in different areas, because it is true -- and that we agree with you -- that the problem of suicide goes beyond the health field, and it is necessary to implement measures in other areas such as education, social policy, social work, working with different entities, with the Immelga, with other organisms. But what we cannot agree with from the Popular Group is that in Galicia this plan does not work or that it is necessary to draw up another one, as you propose in the initiative. The suicide prevention plan is developing. Interdisciplinary committees were set up in the Integrated Management Branches of all hospitals in the Welsh network, updated all the protocols on prevention of suicide throughout the hospital, identified the black points in hospitals, launched the suicide protocol in the school area, a fruit of the work of this interdepartmental health-education commission. It gives training to firemen and police, front-line personnel who intervene, through the Galician Emergency Academy, who intervene first, are the first to respond to a call for help on this subject. He has done and is continuing to conduct training and courses to health professionals on updating and prevention of suicide. They took days with municipalities of special incidence, in collaboration with associations of mental illness, etc. They'll tell us all this isn't enough. Well, it's probably not, but it's not. You can always do more and involve more sectors, but that means that the plan we have doesn't work because in Galicia it doesn't start, there's a third. The truth is it's a problem we all want to solve, that's not the slightest doubt. Even though there's been a lot of progress, as you said, in the scientific knowledge of suicide behavior, we don't have a single explanation of why. Why do some people commit it while others in a similar situation don't? But what we do know is that there are steps that can be taken to modify the personal and family consequences of suicide. According to Mrs. Carreira's memory, 307 cases in 2020 represent a decrease of 318 in 2019 and the second best record since 2012. But we agree that these are inescapable figures in all cases. With the onset of the pandemic and after 18 months immersed in it, experts see the increase in people who may suffer from depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorders, increased alcohol consumption, which could pose a greater risk to suicide. And for this reason, the Greek Government has re-acted and re-acted and adapted the Mental Health Plan 2020-2024 to the circumstances of the pandemic, in order to precisely try to minimize its effects on the population of Galicia, which will have an impact on minimizing the risk of suicide. The development of the plan has enabled 6 care units to be implemented for people at risk of suicide in the areas of Coruña, Lugo, Pontevedra, Vigo and Ferrol. Each of the new units has a specific team of professionals, which is composed of psychologists, psychiatrists and nurses, and which involved the recruitment of 15 new professionals throughout this year. The maintenance of these new five units -- you said that the plan had no budget -- over the course of this plan will involve an investment of more than 3.6 million euros. We've lost in zeros but it's 3.6 million euros. And these units are added to the former one, that of Ourense, Verín and O Barco, who was a pioneer and which was a model of state reference. Another important line in the suicide strategy -- we're talking about it -- is prevention, very important, prevention and awareness-raising to detect these risk situations. And this year 2021 has called for the first time a specific line of grants so that non-profit entities at Community level develop prevention programmes. In addition, the Interdepartmental Commission on Health and Education has recently adopted the agreement to make a universal prevention programme for the risk of suicide in school, to reduce self-liquidity in youth. Because Mrs Ortega said so, we should not forget that suicide is particularly concerned because it is one of the first causes of mortality in minors, and adolescence is a special risk group. The day-to-day hospitals that are covered by the Mental Health Plan can play a very relevant role in these cases. Vigo's work has already begun, because it is established that the therapeutic intervention in a part-time psychiatric hospitalization regimen demonstrates its effectiveness, especially in the infant-juvenile population. One of the main advantages of day hospitals is to maintain the child's contact with his family and social environment, which certainly favours his reintegration and recovery, so we think that in the case of the suicide behaviours of adolescents these units can play a fundamental role. And besides, and continuing with the prevention measures in which the Government of Greece is working, we are going to create the German register of autolytic attempts, which we consider to be very important, as you also said, because official statistics are true that they do not record the attempts or serious situations of suicidal conduct, but it is estimated that about twenty attempts are made for every suicide committed. As a previous step, it will also be done, Mrs. Ortega, this creation of the German Suicide Observatory. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, we can't support your initiative, because we think that Galicia's suicide prevention plan, fully effective, is a very useful tool that allows us to work in an interdisciplinary way in different areas, which shows to be effective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u168	...and the strategy -- finished, Mr. President -- that is following the Government of Greece is evidence of a cross-sectoral and coordinated work in the search for the goal that we all pursue, which is to avoid, as far as possible, suicide in our community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u169	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Ortega Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u170	Thank you, President. The truth, Mrs Vispo, is that practically all the issues I mentioned were in full agreement. It is true that, as I mentioned earlier, we are aware of that plan that is in force in Galicia and, of course, all the work that is done is always grateful in such a sensitive matter as this. But it does appeal to me very much that, in agreement, if they oppose this proposal, which is actually the very proposal that they are demanding not only citizenship but social agents, mental health associations. He actually began by saying that he did not understand that we said that the plan was not being implemented, as the matter in question required, suicide, but actually the mental health associations themselves report that Galicia fails in the prevention of suicide, and they are complaining that there is a plan but that it is not implemented due to lack of economic resources, basically. We want to ask that this plan be endowed with economic, human and material resources so that it can be carried out and be more efficient than it has really been so far. And I also commented on the representative of the Galician Nationalist Block, which is a question that most people know, it doesn't need to be a representative of the sector or be -- let's say -- working in this area. We all know or even suffer from some mental health problem and when we have to go to public health, we really have to be aware and we are all aware and everyone, regardless of where we occupy this Parliament, we know that they are making appointments with lots of months of mental health delay. And you, who are besides health professionals, are also knowledgeable and perfectly aware of that. So, we don't understand why the refusal to raise resources on this issue, which is what we've practically been asking here today from the PSdEG and which we consider to be totally fair, which is a proposal for justice to people, which is a proposal on a public health issue that affects us and will affect us all, regardless of where we are from, the economic condition, etc. And so on, because, as you well said, Mrs Vispo, suicide does not understand established patterns or social classes, it affects everyone equally. So we need to be united on this issue and we do not understand the negative on this case by the People's Party. And with all the respect that I deserve -- and especially you, Mrs Vispo -- I have to tell you that this is the time to use the absolute majority of which they presume on many occasions -- and of course right to assume -- but it's time to show that gratitude to the citizenry who voted for them, who placed the ultimate confidence in the People's Party and who really, on a priority issue and who has to be on the table as at this point in time, who we don't know what might come after the pandemic, we have to stand up to the circumstances of all the representatives of this House. And the plan of what the spokesperson of the People's Party actually exists, but years later, four years later, we continue to see these headlines and continue to hear how mental health associations are warning us that it's not working. [[Mr Ortega shows a role in the House.]] Are we going to be negationists of a reality that is showing the sector itself? We can't be complicit, so we bring this proposal to the House. And we believe that, in addition, you are aware of that, and that's why we ask for consensus. I think they might think and recapitate to approve, put themselves in favour, all together, with unanimity that deserves -- I think -- this subject in question, and, in addition, when you're saying they're going to support, for example, the report on suicide attempts, which is one of the issues we're asking for. The other question we are requesting is to provide resources for the plan that is in force, to provide resources and, of course, to contact the associations that control matter, the experts who control this matter, to be at their disposal, and what they are demanding is more economic resources. We can't allow me to make an appointment for the psychologist with a suicidal ideation and that he has to wait three months, as it is happening, or even more. We can't afford this, with data, and being the second autonomous community that has the most suicide rate in all Spain, we can't afford it. And I don't doubt the least that the groups that represent citizenship in this House can do a great job together on this issue. That's why I ask, once again, the vote in favour unites in this matter and immediately put resources on the table, because the frustration of the professionals of psychology and psychiatry, who have to pay for the next visit after many months, has a limit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u172	And the professionals see their work impossible and not operational due to lack of means, because it's impossible for a psychologist or a psychiatrist to treat a person who has to quote within four months, you can't pursue such therapy. I know it from experience and you're probably also, because we're professionals in the sector. Professionals see this hard work. Let us put resources on the table, with seriousness, with rigour, with sensitivity and with political will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and six other Members, on the demand from the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain for the preparation of a study of the financial market situation from the point of view of banking concentration and the implementation of a state plan against financial exclusion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u174	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and another amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Socialists. [[(G.P. Parliamentary of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of his colleague Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal:Amendment of amendment:The resolution of the non-law proposal must be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1. To address the Abanca entity, S.A., so that by this entity, in a process of social responsibility with Galicia, proceed to the immediate paralysis of the closure of bank offices that has been announced in recent months, especially in the municipalities where this entity is the only banking office.2. Addressing Banca, S.A., and requesting the reopening of the offices closed in 2021, especially in the municipalities in which it is an entity was the only one with a bank office.3. Elaborate within its scope of exclusive competences in the field of consumption, through the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competences, a Charter of Basic Services which guarantees the right of all Greeks and Greeks as consumers and consumers not to be excluded in the provision of basic services of a financial nature.4. To address the Government of the State to promote a regulatory framework guaranteeing the right of all citizens not to be excluded from the financial sphere in their territory."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presents the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal:Replace the text of the resolution by the following:"The German Parliament urges the Galician Union to:1. To request the Galician Competition Commission to draw up a new ''Report on banking concentration in Galicia from the point of view of competition''', in the light of the facts since the first report, the level of competition in the Greek banking market and the market structure as well as its impact on the economy and on users.2. To request from the Central Government the analysis of deficiencies in the role of supervision and regulation of the Banco de España and CNMC on competition and banking concentration and its lack of action and effectiveness in the face of escalation of bank abuse in the area of service restriction, the timetable pact to limit cash services, increased commission and drastic reductions in offices and staff. bank concentration and lack of action and effectiveness in the face of escalation of bank abuse in the area of service restriction, timetable for limiting cash services, increased commission and drastic reductions in offices and staff.3. To ask the Government of Spain, in coordination with local and autonomous administrations, to put in place a state plan against financial exclusion, with measures to facilitate the access of the population to financial services without in any case suggesting an increase in the transfer of public administration economic resources to private financial institutions. Among these measures, it would be to promote a regulation that regulates the universal provision of basic or essential financial services, so as to ensure its provision for all users, regardless of their place of residence, with a determined quality and affordable price. 3. To ask the Government of Spain, in coordination with local and autonomous administrations, to put in place a state plan against financial exclusion, with measures to facilitate the access of the population to financial services without in any case suggesting an increase in the transfer of public administration economic resources to private financial institutions. Among these measures would be to promote a regulation regulating the universal provision of basic or essential financial services, so as to ensure their provision for all users, irrespective of their place of residence, with a determined quality and at an affordable price.4. To encourage political and social negotiation with all institutions, social and consumer organisations and consumers to demand from banking entities operating in Galicia and who are closing offices, dismissing workers and workers, and locating services to other communities or countries, as well as disconnecting banking services to telemarketing companies to demand the cessation of this type of abusive practices. 4. To encourage political and social negotiation with all institutions, social and consumer organisations and consumers to demand from banking entities operating in Galicia and who are closing offices, dismissing workers and workers and locating services to other communities or countries as well as disconnecting banking services to telemarketing companies to demand the cessation of this type of abusive practices.5. Take the necessary measures to leave the impulse of any measure which is intended to inject public resources into banking institutions to provide services that these same entities are closing without 5. Take the necessary measures to leave the impulse of any measure which is intended to inject public resources into banking institutions to provide services that these same entities are closing without economic justification, in particular the process of adjudicating subsidies for the installation of cashiers."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. It is noticeable the strong impact it has had and has banking restructuring on Spanish territory, even going beyond our national borders. The financial crisis of 2008 was the turning point, where Spain lived one of the largest banking merger processes across Europe. There are many factors that have led to this gradual restructuring circumstance, such as the new regulatory framework, negative interest rates, sector digitization, the resolution of questionable assets or even the entry of new competitors. In Galicia we are not allies of this process of intense reform of the financial system, because, ladies and gentlemen, we all know some family member, some friend who has recently been affected by ongoing changes in carrying out financial procedures in the banking institutions where they operate. Despite the fact that this process has allowed to strengthen the resolve of entities and restore the confidence and stability of the financial system, which has gained the ability to withstand new crises, it has also brought negative alternatives, such as a significant decrease and closure of the number of branches and banking offices open to the public, making it difficult for the public to access financial services, both in rural and urban areas. More than 1,600 offices were closed last year in Spain, and these adjustments continue this year. And it's not only Abanca, which too, because the Santander Bank in San Cibrao das Viñas has closed its doors; the BBVA will do so in the next few days at the Cervo Town Hall, just like Caixabank, Unicaja, Ibercaja and Sabadell Bank, which will soon do so, as they announced. Look, by putting data on the table and seeing the scope of the problem, in Spain the network of offices of credit institutions reached a maximum of 46,000 units in September 2008 and since then has not stopped falling, until December 2020, in just over 22,000 branches, so we're talking about an adjustment of more than 51%, and in autonomous communities like Catalonia reaches the 64% drop. Data show that this adjustment occurs in urban and rural areas, particularly affecting access to financial services and negatively impacting economic and social development and contributing to the worsening of their state of depopulation. At the beginning of my speech I stressed that we are not faced with a problem that affects Galicia exclusively. See, 53% of the total municipalities in Spain do not have a bank branch, which is 3% of the Spanish population, with communities like Castela-León, where the percentage of the population without access to a bank office in its municipal term was 15.8%. And if we go to Extremadura or even Navarre, the affected population percentage reaches 7%. Ladies and gentlemen, it is alarming evidence that we are facing a generalized problem that goes beyond the scope of a municipality, a province or an autonomous community, and that we understand that it requires a diagnosis, treatment and a coordinated solution by the various public administrations, which are headed by the Government of the State. We agree that Abanca is an important entity within the Greek financial system. We speak of an entity based in Galicia, with a market share of around 40% and therefore its decisions -- good and bad -- significantly affect the Greek banking market. It would be a mistake to stick the problem to a single entity, to a single council, because we are faced with a problem that affects all the customers of financial products at the state level. We are faced with a reality that must not be fragmented by autonomous communities. It's a matter that affects the whole of Spain and therefore the Government of the State has to direct joint action by being the only competent in the matter. The self-government and this parliamentary group are aware of an issue affecting the national territory and which concerns our Greek territory; ultimately, all those vulnerable people who want access to financial and banking services. In fact, there are already useful formulas in this area, such as the initiative recently promoted by the Government of Greece, in collaboration with the representation of the municipalities, Fegamp, to universalize the access of banking and financial services that will allow many localities that do not have offices, in addition to having a cashier in their municipality, that the neighbours of these municipalities can also have financial and training services. This is an agreement signed by municipalities with governments of all political colors: Socialist Party, People's Party, Galician Nationalist Bloc and even independenceists, who understood, in the same way as the Galician Union, that the important thing was to give the solution to this problem of financial exclusion that their neighbours had. Through the self-consumption bodies, it works to defend bank users through the organization of information campaigns, as well as the provision of financial services advice, fulfilling its competence. The honourable Members are aware that hindering access to financial services to the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned has direct consequences for their economic and social development; and, of course, in the depopulation of their territory, which is further aggravated by the restrictions of the present care services and other measures affected by the current situation of the pandemic. The proposal made this afternoon by this parliamentary group aims to ensure that all the people of Greece, regardless of their place of residence, have access to banking and financial services, and avoid financial exclusion, paying special attention in rural areas. To ensure that all the population of Greece, irrespective of their place of residence, has access to banking and financial services, ultimately means that the Government of the State is pushing for a regulation that regulates the universal provision of basic financial services, because it is the only competent in this area. A demand, in addition, for a broad consensus, at least in the parties at national level, as patented in the motion adopted at the Senate in September 2020. The vast majority urge the Government of Spain to develop this study and agree on a package of global measures to address this problem in coordination with the autonomous, provincial and local administrations. It is necessary, in collaboration with the Banco de España and the National Securities Market Commission, to prepare a study on the financial market situation in Spain from the point of view of banking concentration. Of course, there is a verbal agreement by the first vice-president of the Government of Spain, Minister Calvin, on his visit to Galicia, committed to working with the Banco de España to see if you have any specific recommendations to address the problem of the abusive closure of banking institutions. In the face of these statements, we see no impediment to the Socialist Group's unanimous support, with the support of the vice-president of the Government, and also the support of the nationalist group, being needed to formalize itself before the Government that currently resides in the Moncloa. I look forward to your support for this initiative, because it will be a support for all Greeks to have access to financial services anywhere they live in. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u176	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u177	Thank you, President. Good evening to all, ladies and gentlemen. Before starting my intervention on this initiative, Mrs. Paula Prado -- she's not here -- she did some demonstrations earlier, during her speech, that are absolutely false in relation to the daughter of the mayor of Verín. The daughter of the mayor of Verín did not approve any opposition in the Town Hall, which was not summoned, and also does not work in the Town Hall of Verín. With which Mrs. Paula Prado -- I believe she unintentionally lied -- and it would be good for her to correct. [[Applause]] In any case, as this is going to be full of handing over paperwork to the President of the House, remind me, Mr. Santalices, that in the next plenary I will hand you a list of 250 family members of elected officials of the People's Party in the House of Ourense; of mayors and conciergemen plugged, all of them, yes, to that institution. Remind me to hand it over to you and Mrs. Paula Prado. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u178	I don't know why, sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u179	Well, because you're the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u180	Well, yeah, but I'm here to clear up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u181	It's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u182	What Mrs. Paula Prado gave me is a newspaper cut.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u183	Of course, of course! Of course, Mrs. Paula Prado lied here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u184	Which is what the newspaper says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u185	Sure. Good. [[Murmurs.]] With regard to the initiative, this is an initiative that has indeed been discussed over the last few months here. Of course, the People's Party has all the legitimacy of the world to pose any kind of initiative, to repeat the initiatives we have taken to this House since the opposition over the past few months. And, well, finally, from that legitimacy that I recognize you, I also tell you that the will of the People's Party with this kind of initiative is only -- in some way -- to bleach the political inaction of the Galician Union in the resolution of a topic that affects thousands and thousands of Greeks, such as the closure of banking offices in many municipalities in this country that have already been mentioned here on many occasions and which you know. And you yourself just mentioned here also to other financial entities, Banka and BBVA, which is actually a problem affecting the whole of the municipalities and also a problem that is causing different financial entities. What's happening is that you're asking for a series of X-rays here that are, logically, okay, but that we, over the last few months in different initiatives, also put forward here. We have suggested that studies, through the Instituto Galego de Consumo, have been carried out since Galician Union, of the impact that the process of banking concentration is having on the competition itself in the sector. Or the impact of bank concentration on the credit sector on the granting of mortgage loans. Or even the impact of bank concentration on the imposition of abusive commissions on contracts as a result of the oligopolisation process in the sector. In front of that, you, the People's Party, the party that supports the Government of Galicia, always vote no, always block any initiative that comes from the opposition, even if it's reasonable, because we ourselves put initiatives in a coherent way. We know that there is a political issue that can be resolved by political pressure from Galicia through political pressure to entities, especially those that have the most market share in this country. And there's a policy issue that, of course, has to be resolved in the sphere of state, which we also push these kinds of issues. But I think you here, with this kind of initiative, don't look for a solution, what you're looking for is a responsible, a guilty, and you know, when you look for that kind of responsible, who you owe that responsibility to the government of the state. Balloons outside and that solve the other issues that obviously affect Galicia. I believe that we agree, all of us here, in which public administrations must, of course, guarantee the provision of basic services to the whole of citizenship, also financial services. This goes what is social cohesion and territorial cohesion, beyond where they actually live. And we defend an economic system that has a robust and strong financial system, and we don't oppose mergers or bank mergers, we understand it in the logic of the market, and we defend that the market doesn't have to touch it every time it works. But we can't admit this draconian process that's going to be closing banking offices in all of the country's municipalities or in many of the country's municipalities, especially in those municipalities where there's only one bank office. This can't be admitted and we can't even admit the silence often complicit in the Galician Union in relation to the second banking entity. Because you have to explain to me, and the Galician board has to explain, how it is possible that a financial entity today is in a public society with the Galician board pointing to the management of the European funds linked to the projects going to be financed by the European funds coming to this land, as a banking entity is awarded a private university, and how that financial entity is not able to impose any social responsibility on the Galician board. That's what you have to explain, because this is about political responsibilities too and, in this sense, we see a lack of political will on the part of the Galician Union in seeking solutions to this issue. [[Applause]] Actually, I agree with the diagnosis -- I think we all agree -- the banking concentration process is producing financial exclusion. It's pushing citizenship, the set of citizens, to a digital banking model that in Galicia, by the demographic composition of our population, has obvious prejudices for a population sector, especially older people, who have less digital ability and less digital capacity and therefore more difficulties. But the solution, of course, is not to encourage with public money those financial institutions that close offices in the towns, to encourage them to then, with public money, raise, precisely, financial services that have just closed. That's not the solution, that's by no means what should be pushed from the junta. And you were talking about the arrangement with Fegamp. The agreement with the Fegam, which is about December, is not contemplated as a spoilt for financial institutions to close offices. It is envisaged, precisely, to, those municipalities that no longer had financial services, equip them with some instrument, in this case a cashier, but already those municipalities that did not have this service. What can't be done is that it's encouraged, through a public aid from the Galician Union -- in this case of €2,800,000 -- to shut down offices so those same financial entities end up doing business in those municipalities where they close their own branches. So we cannot admit, either, by a question of social responsibility with this country, that that financial entity that has the highest market share and comes from where it comes from, and that it has a consecutive annual return, since 2015, important, lacks that social responsibility with this country and heeds solely and exclusively to commercialist criteria and that since the Council of Galicia is absolutely silent. We, unlike the People's Party, put names and surnames. We demand Banca, and the rest of the entities, which stop closing offices in this country, we demand that Galician Union request this entity to stop closing offices in this country, and we also understand that the Galician Consumer Institute can do much more than it is doing in defence of consumers and consumers in this country, who are entitled not to be excluded in the provision of basic services, in this case of a banking nature. [[Applause]] And, of course, we have no reparations, no fear of demanding, in the sphere of the state, the normative changes that are absolutely necessary, and I hope that the whole of the citizenship of this country, living where it lives, have all the same rights. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u186	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u187	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez, with all due respect, I shall not be my group who is in conflict with the political will of the People's Party, of the Parliamentary Group, and with the matters that bring to this plenary session, let me rid myself of Castelao of it! But, of course, to me, indeed, it is unheard that, with what is falling, with the debates that we have had in this House in which we are legislating on this question of financial exclusion, that you, at this height of the beginning and then, in addition, you do not know very well what, if you are washing the conscience, whether there is no consensus on a specific point, and also after you have made those decisions unilaterally from the People's Party, without seeking at any time consensus with the opposition groups, come here with this initiative, if you are washing up your conscience, whether there is the only banking entity that closes these offices in this country, something which, if you have heard us a little, and with a very active choice we have already known. [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] Because, frankly, it's a little fascinating. But, in any case, we respect your decision and every time you want to discuss this issue in this Parliament, which is good enough for us. But, we insist, and as we said in the previous plenary session, in commission and on multiple occasions, even in legislation prior to the thread of other banking restructuring processes, because there are times worse remedies than disease. And this is one of those cases, Mrs Vázquez, because, of course, what you've done since Galician Union was worse. First they were not doing anything, the least political negotiation, the least intervention with the banking sector, the least development of their own initiatives, reformulating the IGAPE and transforming it into a Galego Institute of Credit, any such issue. No, but then it was worse, because they decided to act, and sometimes when they act, it's worse than when you do nothing, and this is one of those examples. Because what was missing is, in a scenario where banking institutions are taking advantage of the crisis of coward-19 to continue to lower their services and thus increase their benefits, you decide that they want to contribute, but contribute to the benefits of the big bank. So they decided, there, come on! we're going to arrange a grant order to give money to the bank so you can install cash boxes where you're closing them. A brilliant idea, a brilliant idea that had an effect called, for it was to be consumed that publication of the order of grants in Galicia's Official Journal and to speed up the closure of banking entities that were not closing services, and that began to do so. That's what you did, Mrs. Vázquez, basically get an effect called with that chinchmony capitalism that you practice. [[Laughter]] Because you are liberal for what you want -- you can't intervene in the economy in any way -- until you decide that, oh, see!, with some banking entity, like there's good feeling, as part of that portfolio of selected embraces by the president of Galician Union, there if we can intervene in the economy and allocate resources of the Greeks and Greeks, there you are! [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] I, of course, think it is a lack of respect for this, this initiative, of course. Besides, you say, Mrs Vázquez, that we are not close to this situation, that in Galicia we live as in the rest of Spain. I don't know if it was like an argument to convince us that we are Spain. But, in any case, we live it more than the rest of Spain, because the report you made on your day, the initiative of the proposed group, which was the Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales and which has reached an agreement, I believe that the only one in the previous legislation on economic and financial matters related to the banking system, made the Galician Competition Commission a report. What did that report say? That we had a bank concentration rate higher than the state, and higher than the European. What did you guys do? Nothing. Also refuse to intervene politically in this area, refuse to negotiate with banking institutions. So we have a situation that's worse, and what you do is you're looking for a bad solution. You also said that... Well, here's a good reading of the balance of the previous financial crisis, which we certainly cannot share, because it says that the financial system has won in solvency and in capacity to resist other crises, and we are in the midst of a new economic crisis that does not have a financial origin but that banking entities use as an alibi. First, for the public system to continue to rescue them, through European funds, ICO credits etc., well to continue to increase its benefits at the expense of customers, and, of course, this is not a Greek problem, indeed, is a European and international problem. It's not really a matter of a single banking entity, but the question is in the measures and, indeed, there are legislative measures which unfortunately correspond under the perspective of a nationalist organization like ours, to the state. But it's just that, look, Mrs Vázquez, we brought concrete proposals over and over again -- the last time 15 days ago -- to this House, to demand legislative changes. We have made proposals, even concrete, that a royal decree of payments and urgent measures should be amended. You could either support that, or support others, but it's that they've always been profiled, and that's because you in the state, along with the Socialist Party in the state, orchestrated the previous banking restructuring into keys that were damaging to the Greek economy, and that were damaging to the Greek financial system. And there is one part, indeed, which is taxed beyond that, which is also imposed on European regulation, but there is another part where you have the capacity to make political decisions and have decided to give up. And there's the story of the boxes, there's the story of all that. And now the reality is that we are in a new phase of this banking restructuring. It's a social drama, it's a social drama from the point of view of work, and the other day I recited here a lot of redundancies talking only about the last two months: ERE of Sabadel, BBVA, CaixaBank, Abanca too -- which seems to represent here --, months before Santander, we lived a brutal process two years ago with all the conglomerate of what was the Banco Popular-Pastor, there was still no welcome, and yet, in view of that situation, you didn't do anything either. So, this, in fact, is a problem that comes from a distance. In the field of work, we should also talk about the labour regulation that some and others have made in the field of the state, and that they have made a genuine conversion in the sector, which has basically been converted to temporary, precarious workers and teleoperators and teleoperators in many cases. It's also a social drama that has to do with clientele, but for anyone, user or user, it's an obligation, besides, misunderstood digitization for older people, not so much. These same weeks, we're seeing what's happening to cyberstaks and all those issues. You're not even there, either. There's anecdotal work on collecting claims from the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition and a little more. You didn't do your best in that area either. There is clearly an abusive pact of all banking entities, which violates the role that regulators should play, because neither CNMC nor the Banco de España act on such obvious issues as the cash agreement, such as the restriction of access to credit. You also see how the savings of Greece migrates: two budgets of the Union, two budgets of the Union is what there is accumulated of differential between credits and deposits of this country, which could be being used to be reinvested here, in so many areas that need funding in this context of crisis, and where you are delivering European funds to Ibex-35, and you then come here saying that, well!, that you have to ask for measures, so in general, and that you continue to inflate money from the private bank to put cash. This, as a complementary measure to opening the door to privatization of the Greek university system, as the next step is also to take and create a management tour of the European funds led by a private entity, Abanca, which will not even have a financial character and which will decide on European funds more than the Members and Members who sit in this Chamber, including you too, will decide more than you do. It's just delusional, Mrs. Vázquez, really. [[Applause]] So we have, indeed, a work drama, a social drama, an economic drama, but the question is what we are dealing with, and you have decided an important part of your history: since Galicia does not act, from the state acting in a direction contrary to the interests of the social majority of this country, and now they come here, with this self-exculsion initiative, pretending that there is a great consensus with the Greeks, which is radically a lie. There is an agreement that unilaterally the previous president of Fegamp has approved, that he does not have too much consensus within the Fegamp itself and that, in addition, indeed, it is an agreement, just like that of Doing Business or so many others, that the Galician Council practically imposes on the Greek municipalism, that --protocolally almost-- in the Fegamp it is approved, that some of them then become acceding to because they have no other, but that is not a consensus, and the numbers of municipalities attached are ridiculous. That's that in some cases the mayors and the mayors are forced to leave, and they end up there, but it's not a solution to the underlying problem. So, come at this point, something that did not agree with either the Greek municipalism, or with this Parliament, or with the workers and workers of the banking institutions, to whom they don't even receive, that when they launched this grant order, the majority union of this country, which I already know produces allergies, but asked Mr. Martínez for a meeting and he didn't even receive it. That's the reality, Mrs Vázquez, and therefore, in view of that, we do what we do is present an amendment to insist on the issues we have raised at other times. First, we exercise our self-government, the Galician Competition Commission and the Galego Consumo Institute are for something, which study the situation and offer alternatives. Secondly, they exercise political power, they negotiate with banking entities, they negotiate with those banking entities who sit in that Toxa Forum. And thirdly, yes, we are asking for changes in the area of the State as soon as we do not have our own capacity, but fourthly, you acquire some commitment at this point. They assume the mistake they made and do the necessary actions to leave that order void, which, of course, is one of the biggest pieces of hair you've orchestrated for this country in recent years, and look at several on the portfolio list! But, of course, this paripé will not count on our support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas and Mr. Rivera, it's to get the Central Government to work, and it's to start moving the chairs, both of the Socialist Party and of the Nationalist Block Galego. Look, let's bring this initiative because the entities close because of the failure of the Government of Spain, which is the only thing that depends on banking regulation, in case they don't know. And there must be some difference between the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the German Socialist Party, because, look, it is not understood that this initiative is the same as the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party asks the Spanish Government for the motion presented before the Senate. Look, I'll read it to you, Mr. Francisco. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez shows a role in the House.]] There must be a serious coordination problem, I don't know whether it's at Ferraz's headquarters or with Moncloa, "Point 5: to provide financial institutions with incentives and spaces within the units with public administrations." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This was approved by the Socialist Party. Perhaps what they have to do is read a little more, Mr. Rivera. Me. [[Murmurs.]] Just... yeah, yeah, I owe you... [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And with regard to the amendment you tabled, look, in the first intervention you stated that access to financial services is not an exclusive problem of a council or a financial entity. It's just that you in the amendment only talk about Abanca, you must have a problem with that. Because you know perfectly well that it's not just Abanca's problem, it's a problem of all financial entities, and you seem to be interested in doing just that. And I would add that this parliamentary group is going to defend all the Greeks who have their financial rights restricted, live where they live and vote for, Mr Rivera. [[Applause]] With regard to the third point of his amendment. The Instituto Galego de Consumo e decompetencia does not include the control of the proper functioning of the financial market, which is a matter for the Bank of Spain, that is, the Government of the State. Yeah, he doesn't like it. As for the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block. Madam Presas, the truth is that they must be recognized for their great ability to regale, the truth is, yes, and to whiten the Government of Pedro Sánchez. At the bottom are government partners, I understand it perfectly. [[Murmurs.]] See if they struggle that banking regulation is the responsibility of the Banco de España, that is, the Government of Spain! And they almost want to make the Greeks believe that it's up to the German Government, that's amazing! [[Murmurs.]] But, look, the Greeks are much smarter, Mrs. Presas, and they're not going to fall into their trap. Because, look, when the problem of access to banking services -- and you remembered it, which was an agreement prior to the previous president of the Fegamp, that is, before 2019, it was still not patented in Galicia -- the German Government, concerned, called for state coordination, with the urgent need for a complete and detailed study of the financial market to be prepared. In the face of the State Government's inaction -- which must be on other issues -- the Greek Government has decided not to stand by and give a solution to thousands of Greeks who do not have access to these services. The agreement between the Galician Union and the Fegamp is signed by the municipalities of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, the People's Party, the Socialist Party and even independent. And you know why? Because all they share is to give a solution to all those Welsh people who have problems with access to financial services. An initiative similar to many others throughout the Spanish geography carried out by administrations of different political colors, because all they're looking for is to give an answer to all those neighbors. What happens next is the following: the Galego Nationalist Block saw an occasion as a political trifle, but what they didn't know -- Mrs. Presas, this didn't know -- is that the mayors of their own political color signed and joined the said protocol between the Union and the Fegamp. Of course, then that bothers me, I understand it perfectly. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We're in front of a Galician Nationalist Block that whites the State Government, that's what a good government partner should do, not like in the Town Hall of Lugo. We are before a Galician Socialist Party unable to comply with its own agreements, merely of its competence. They should be more concerned about giving a solution to the Greeks and the Greeks. And, of course, when the solution depends on several parts and only two do, like the municipalities and the self-government, there are problems. The local administration and the autonomics, in addition to making a huge effort, have driven the mechanisms within their competence. And I'm done now, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for you to leave this Parliamentary House with unanimous support in the implementation of a state plan against financial exclusion. You laugh, the nationalists laugh because it's very funny. [[Murmurs.]] Look, they're not in favour, from what I see, of voting a state plan because it's demanding the Government of Pedro Sánchez and, of course, it won't bother you. [[Murmurs.]] The only really important thing, what should really worry them is to solve the problem of the Greeks, claiming useful policy in finding solutions to the general problems of people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u190	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u191	For my part...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u192	The amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u193	I'm telling you that we're not going to accept any of the amendments proposed either by the Galician Nationalist Block or by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u194	Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. I know, I'm sure you'll ask for a word for... [[Murmurs.]] Quiet! Let's take it easy. Quiet. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for the floor.]] Ask the word, I imagine, because it was alluded to in... He's got a shift. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Obviously, of course. I was in the debate. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Francisco said I lied in this House and I have to say it's not true. I'll transfer you to the President of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u196	I've explained it myself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u197	...a press release...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u198	There's no debate on that. [[Murmurs.]] In allusions... No, it's not over yet. No, sorry, he's got three minutes. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, sorry, let's see, she's saying... but I don't understand what the problem is. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] What's the matter? [[Murmurs.]] But I don't understand. I just can't understand what the problem is. [[Murmurs.]] She still has... still... let's see, she's explaining, they don't know what she explained yet, and you're already protesting. [[Murmurs.]] But what's the problem? [[Murmurs.]] We'll know what he says! [[Murmurs.]] Because if she's saying that she didn't say that, she'll have to prove she didn't. [[Murmurs.]] We'll respect the shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u199	Mr President, I, by appeal to the Rules of Procedure, believe that I am entitled to the use of the word because I have been referred to, was not in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u200	That's right. I'm protecting the regulation, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u201	And I think some Members should read the Rules of Procedure before they get as they do, because it's really amazing. [[Murmurs.]] It's amazing. I said... in my speech I read a press headline saying, "I saw the opposition that only the mayor's daughter approved."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u202	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u203	Wait! Let me finish my argument.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u204	That's how it was. That's it. That's what I told them. That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u205	ABC, June 8, 2021...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u206	Yes, he's here. I've already taught them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u207	No, no, but leave me. Mr President, if you will allow me, please, to make a minimum argument. Give me the three minutes the regulation gives me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u208	It's said. You use a headline...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u209	But I have to explain why I didn't lie. I didn't lie because I now used to look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u210	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u211	...more press articles from those days and everyone said the same thing: "Investigate the approval of the daughter of the mayor of Verín in a public job offer". Antenna 3...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u212	Well, that's getting deep. Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u213	No, no, Mr. President. Let me finish. Let me finish!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u214	But you didn't say... That's right. It's explained.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u215	When there are fourteen candidates and only one, and she's the daughter of the mayor of Verín and the headline says she only approved the daughter of the mayor of Verín...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u216	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u217	...this Member did not lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u218	Thank you, ma'am... it's explained...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u219	He just read a press headline.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u220	It's explained.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u221	If they don't demand the media to have a rectification...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u222	It's explained, Mrs. Prado. It's over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u223	But this lady didn't lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-28-DSPG048.u224	Your time is up. [[Pause.]] [[The President's words are not understood.]] ...that there is no debate. No, man, please! [[Protests.]] Please! [[Protests.]] Let him read the Rules of Procedure. [[Protests.]]
