ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting with agenda item 7, questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Mr President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the Socialist G.P. of Galicia, asked about the position of the German Government regarding the agreement of a plan to strengthen the Galician vaccination system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are 90 years old from the proclamation of the Second Republic in Spain. A regime that was affixed by transformation, democracy, freedom, equality. And we must value the work of those women and men who also worked from Galicia for a regime of progress and democracy in our country, for a regime that would also allow a road map for the German self-government. Today we must value the ideas and values of the Republic and yet......with regard to the constitutional framework, with all support for the constitutional and statutory framework, today we want to put into force the fact of the Second Republic and say "Long live the republic and live the Republican values!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And now we have a question to make a reflection... I see that the People's Party is pleased to speak of the Republic and the Second Republic, and I see the smiles of members of the Government and the leadership of the People's Group, and I would ask them, in respect of mayors like Emilio Martínez Garrido, like Ánxel Casal, as many people who have lost their lives by the Second Republic, to add to the applause and respect of the Second Spanish Republic. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question we wanted to bring to you today, of utmost reference, is the question of the vaccination process, because after a year of pandemic hope for people is hope in the vaccination process. And we know that throughout this pandemic there have been enormous advances in the scientific model, in research, to have a set of vaccines that are our guarantee to be able to win the battle against the virus. In this process the world was very fast, we advanced very much, we were very fast. Even in November, the president of the board of Galicia said he didn't believe in the great announcements of the Government of Spain, which indicated that in January there would begin to be vaccines. The president said it wouldn't be so until the second quarter. You've made a mistake, you've made a mistake, and the truth is that the vaccination process is a guarantee for everyone, that the system and the vaccination process that Spain, Europe and Galicia are dealing with is the best force we can all have. But it's obvious that, while we put emphasis on the vaccination process, we have to take stock of what measures are being taken to ensure the defense of health in the face of infections and also to see the waves that have the vaccination process in Spain. And also here in Galicia. The Government of Spain has spent more than EUR 1 billion on buying vaccines that communities have to administer in an agile and efficient manner. And it's true that, with the balance of numbers, the data, the first quarter of this year, or the data still published yesterday even in Galicia, if you're administering a lot of vaccines and that's a success process, but there's some need to be corrected. For example, we continue to have a relative delay in people over 80 years of age with regard to other communities. While in other communities 100 percent of the age of 80 are already vaccinated, Galicia has the vaccination rate of more than 80 years than the lowest in Spain, only in advance on the list of all. 17,000 Welsh and Welsh over 80 years of age are still waiting for their vaccine, while in other communities these vaccines have already been administered to all over 80 years of age. And it's also true that every day there's about 170,000 vaccines, a few days more than 200,000 vaccine pendants. I want to shake hands with the president of the Galician board to strengthen the vaccination system. It has to be a great deal of country agreement. Vaccination is urgent now, but it will be a permanent necessity over the next few years, and in the fight against the virus and in the defense of the vaccination process we have to have a great deal of agreement. An agreement that strengthens primary care, which is overburdened, and the management of so many health professionals, which sees that, as far as the environment of more than 1,000 professionals may be in the process of vaccination, public health and primary care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u5	...is decapitalized, without personnel. We assume the need to strengthen the health system, to strengthen the vaccination system for now and for the next few years. And let's do it by defending the Greeks and the Greeks against the virus, because that's the task of the government and the president, that's the task that all public representatives have. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u6	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, today indeed, a year and a month ago that the Central Government declared the state of alarm as a result of the pandemic of coward 19th. He declared it, at least a month later than it would be prudent, since the epidemiological alert system in Spain failed. In Italy they had already taken several weeks with a widespread virus situation, especially in northern Italy, flights with Italy did not stop and in Spain there were still a series of demonstrations and sporting events which, without any doubt, produced one of the most deadly countries in the European Union. Indeed, Your Honor, the Government of Spain does not give vaccines to the autonomous communities, nor does it even spend a potato of its budget, but rather, within the RECT Funds, of the €10,000 million coming for the territories that we make up Spain, 2,000 million remained within the central government of the State to finance the vaccines. Therefore, Your Honor, nor does the Central Government give a euro to any autonomous community, not even the funds are from the general budget of the state, but from the funds of the European Union that we receive from all Spaniards. You talk to me, Your Honor -- and I appreciate the tone -- of vaccination in Galicia. In his question, he put the evasives of vaccination in the autonomous community. Undoubtedly, the most prominent water in the vaccination process in Spain and Galicia is the lack of vaccines. No one can give what he doesn't have and therefore we can't vaccinate unless there are no vaccines. This is the fundamental problem of vaccines and the percentage of vaccination in Spain and Galicia. And that's why the first thing I'd like to highlight is professionalism, the rigor of the hospital in the Galician Health Service in general and the professionals in its entirety. I'm very proud to be President of Galicia, with these vaccine results, with these professionals and with the rigour of what is being dispensed and with the diligence we're working with. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you should know that Galicia owns 50% of all Spanish people, and that 80-year-olds account for 8.6% of Spain's total. We are more than 80 years old than Catalonia, more than 80 years old than Valencia; we are, therefore, the second autonomous community with a greater number of older than 80 years old and yet we were the first community that began to vaccinate, the first community that has immunized all the largest in residences and all the disabled in the disability centers; and at this moment all the larger ones who were located and called by the Galician Health Service are vaccinated, all older than 80 years old. There's a 3 percent higher who didn't come to vaccinate, and there's a percentage of large dependents that we wanted to vaccinate, exactly, with Janssen. For what? To reduce home transfers and not to lose a single vaccine, since this vaccine only corresponds to one dose. Indeed, the Government of Spain announces many things. He announces, without having any responsibility, when the population will be vaccinated every fortnight, every month, and after announcing this, suspension of the AstraZeneca vaccine for days and suspension of Janssen is not yet known for how long. So, Your Honor, I'm surprised you don't know that Galicia is an autonomous community that has more percentages of vaccinated people than in the middle of Spain, I'm surprised that this data misses it. So, Your Honor, I think you should be the first to congratulate the staff of the Galician Health Service, to congratulate the health care staff of the Galician Health Service, to congratulate the Greeks on their responsibility, to go to the vaccines despite the doubts that some central and European authorities generate. And that's why I feel especially satisfied again. And 100 percent of the Greeks over the age of 80, except for a few exceptions,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u9	...will be vaccinated not only with the first dose but with the second dose and therefore totally immunized in the last days of April or in the first days of May, being the territory with 50 % of all the peoples of Spain and being the second autonomous community with a population greater than 80 years. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u10	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true that a year ago the state of alarm had to be decreed and that after the President of the Government had announced this decision on television, on the same day you decided to decree the state of emergency in Galicia. It is obvious that in that detection of the stage there were delays, and to the hemerotheque and to the facts I refer myself, because it is public and notorious, there is no doubt, just as two days before Mr. Feijóo was with 300 people gathered at a hotel in Ferrol. [[Murmurs.]] So, at the time of forecasting the pandemic, we're all responsible for the difficulties that occurred at those times when predicting the pandemic scenario, which none of this House, a few weeks earlier, had raised when you appeared here rigorously. And I mean, Mr. Feijó, that the data is public. I tell the Galicians and the Greeks to enter the information portal, to get the document on the vaccination rates of the cod, the integral management, it's public and notorious, and that data you give is not real. For over 80 years the data are published and collected with total clarity... Yesterday, the latest data published: the number of more than 80 years vaccinated, the number of older than 80 years that are pending vaccination and therefore are vaccinated 92.6% of the older 80 years and Galicia is the third cola community in more than 80 years, only in front of Madrid and Canarias. That's the data, Mr. Feijó. Let's do it better. [[Applause]] It is clear, Mr. Feijóo, that when you said no vaccines were coming to Galicia you were doing an interpretation absolutely lacking respect and rigour. Because when they didn't get more vaccines, it's because the priority groups were health personnel, but now the priority group is over 80 years of age Galicia is receiving a number of vaccines as a percentage above other communities. And the problem is, when vaccines are here, there are still vaccines to be put, because you said they were going to administer 100,000 a day and the health system is not being able; there are still 17,000 more than 80 years in Galicia that did not receive the first dose, according to the published data. And I want to tell you to accept the agreement to seek a strengthening of the vaccination system. And I also want to say it with two other issues that are very important to us. First of all, are you, Mr. Feijóo, according to the state of alarm from May 9th? Are you going to keep saying that now you have to do the opposite of what the Government says? Because you were saying that the state of alarm would be devastating, that Spain could not be in the state of alarm until April because on Holy Week and Christmas we would be destroying our country, and now you, in that policy of aimlessly confrontation, which is to say b when to do it, lead us to a wrong strategy that doesn't make a country. And I'm also telling you that you have failed a health law for Galicia, which is the law of the People's Party, and that it has anti-constitutional content, that the courts will decree it, because you have skipped your powers according to the statutory framework, because you have eliminated freedoms that you cannot eliminate, trying to establish mandatory vaccines...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u13	...trying to contain citizenship on a compulsory basis and attempting to isolate citizenship on a compulsory basis by an autonomous community. It was only necessary that the Town Councils of the PP now also wanted to apply rules that affect fundamental rights. [[Applause]] I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, to strengthen the vaccination process and to have them next to you. Rectify the Health Act, which is anti-constitutional and which is outside the constitutional system, and when it corrects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u15	...they were next door. And it also faithfully assumes the views of the Government of Spain against the virus, because its position on the state of alarm at the end of last year was absurd, it was a big mistake. Do not go wrong, correct because when you correct...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u16	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u17	...may start righting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u18	Thank you. Close the question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When a Member of this House is able to say that the state of alarm on the part of the Council of Ministers has been decreed before the state of emergency in Galicia, I believe that there is no need for further debate, Mr Caballero. If you don't even know what's going on in Galicia, when will you know the vaccination rates? [[Murmurs.]] Let everything mix and it has nothing to do with the reality we're talking about. Mr. Caballero, with all due respect, are you the President of the Constitutional Court? Do you know what the Constitutional Court is going to say? People sitting on that bank filed unconstitutional remedies against health laws that approved this government and this parliamentary group and the Constitutional Court gave us reason. The decree of a positive list of medicinal products you challenged before the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court had no choice but to suspend the law as a result of the decision of the Government of Spain, and then left the suspension void and gave reason to the Autonomous Community of Greece. We can face the same situation. Mr. Caballero, who is so concerned with the autonomous community, does it not seem reasonable to you that, before presenting a resource of unconstitutionality, the logic is to sit down and talk to us?, do you not, do you think they practice here, Your Honor?, do you believe in the state of autonomy?, do you really believe that an autonomous president can be told by teletype that a law approved by this parliament suffers from a resource of unconstitutionality in the full pandemic, a law that tries to manage the pandemic? And you come here to get your chest out of this! Look, one thing you're taking is the paragraphs that tell you about Ferraz and the other thing is that he's a useless deputy to defend Galicia's interests, Your Honor. It is regrettable what we are listening to this morning of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Here you come to suck because we are founded on a law in the middle of a pandemic and we have no legal backing to manage the pandemic, and I do not say so, Your Honor, the Council of State, which, in relation to Galician law, reminds the Government that it is in need of an adequate legislation "in order to provide competent health authorities with the best possible legal framework to deal with present and future situations and the serious risk of public health." Ladies and gentlemen, since April, since March 2020, you have had no interest in managing the pandemic, and not only did they have it, but they have departed, and they don't even leave us legal tools. The Euskadi Parliament is passing a law, the Aragon Parliament is passing a law, and the first law that was passed in Spain is the German law, of which I feel very proud. I have exercised all my powers as president of an autonomous government to protect the Greeks. [[Applause]] Your Honor, the number of people vaccinated with the first dose in Galicia yesterday was 23.4% and in Spain 19.8%. And in relation to the 80s, I just mentioned that we are the second autonomous community with a population of more than 80s, and all the people who were located by the Galician Health Service are vaccinated, all 100 percent. There are about 3 percent of people who have refused, they're recognizing right now, and there's a percentage of dependent people in their homes that we're going to practice home vaccination, one by one, and we don't quote them in the big stadiums, no, Your Honor, in the health centers, nearby, near their homes. The problem, Your Honor, is we don't have any vaccines. This week we are going to vaccinate 130,000 people; if we had 100,000 vaccines a day, we would have 100,000 doses a day and this problem would be part of the past. Why don't we compare with the United Kingdom? Why don't we compare with the United States? Your Honor, I am loyal to the Government of my country, and you are not even loyal to the Galician Health Service. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that, from this week on, we will issue the vaccination certificate where, of course, the identification of the patient, the dose and the batch of the dose with which he was immunized, where the vaccine laboratory which he has been given appears, I hope they do not seek it, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u21	I hope they don't use the vaccination certificate, the first one to be given in Spain, issued by the Galician Health Service. That is to protect health, Your Honor, that is to exercise our legislative powers, and that is, Your Honor, to have one of the most competent health services in the European Union. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u22	Thank you. Mr. President of the Galician Union of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, asked about the concrete contribution that makes to the defence of Galician interests the position of the Greek Government in front of the Central Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u23	Good morning, gentlemen. Well, today, on April 14, I'd like to make a reminder and a reflection. A reminder to Castelao and to all who fought at that time so that we could have the 36th Statute. And one reflection: how difficult it is to understand that today we hear Mr. Sánchez defending Republican values in the same Congress in which he vetoes an investigation into the corruption of the Emeritus King and the monarchy! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, getting out of the crisis is the priority but getting the country forward is not free, on the contrary. It needs strong public action in the form of massive investments that Galicia must receive to its last euro. A substantial part of these resources will come from the European funds, from the Next Generation, which I say are not panacea nor can they assume new social cuts, but it is obvious that they will be the only extraordinary resources to tackle the impact of the pandemic on the economy, pemes, autonomous people and the working class. Right now, President Sánchez explains in Congress what is the plan for the distribution of EUR 72,000 million of direct aid, and the question is very simple, Mr Feijóo: What are you doing to defend the interests of Galicia before the Government of the State? What is he doing so that the money that corresponds to Galicia will not be lost on the path of centralism or because others defend their interests better? And waiting for your answer, let me tell you what's happened so far to the funds transferred by the state because of the pandemic: 16. billion euros. Galicia received 735 million euros, i.e. 4.6% of the total, less than our population weight. In other words, 289 million euros less than would be our equivalent protected population. And that's because you were unable to negotiate a distribution that doesn't discriminate against the Greeks and the Greeks. So, distribution of EUR 5 billion for pemes and autonomouss, what criteria are used? For example, the unemployment rate, but the impact of emigration is not taken into account. They use GDP per inhabitant, but they ignore the statistical effect, because it's not that we're richer, we're less sharing because 200,000 Greeks and Greeks have had to pack in recent years. But it's just that even though travel by train or tram is even counted, and as far as I know here there is none, we just needed to start counting the fall in travel at AVE. Mr. Feijóo, your inability to defend Galician interests makes us lose hundreds of millions in full crisis. Their incapacity costs the Greeks and the Greeks, the pemes, the autonomous, the sectors most impacted by the crisis, hundreds of millions of euros. And we can't keep paying the bill of his inability to defend Galician interests before the Government of the State. And the worst thing is, I'm very afraid that we're at the forefront of what could happen with the 72,000 million euros of those direct aid from the Nex Generation. I hope, Mr. Feijóo, to explain to us today in this chamber what you will do to defend Galician interests in such a relevant matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u25	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you, President. Mrs. Pontón, my way of working as President of Galicia over the past eleven years in relation to central governments and the various teams that have been governing Spain has always been the same: institutional loyalty, complaints in case of non-compliance and negotiation whenever possible. I'm not going to change the way I understand politics. First, because I'm the ordinary representative of the State in Galicia, although you don't know what this means. And second, because I only owe the Greeks, exclusively. That's why, after listening to Mr. Knight's statement that the Central Government should present an unconstitutional remedy against a law passed in this House, you come to say that I do not properly defend Galician interests. Look, loyalty doesn't mean submission, as you interpret it, nor does the government's complaint of non-compliance mean confrontation, as the Socialist Party interprets. And, therefore, when the Socialist Party considers that I do not do my duty and the Galician Nationalist Block also considers it, but for absolutely opposite reasons, it is when I realize that we are fulfilling our duty as President of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. [[Applause]] Your Honor, and when I look to inspire myself in how Galicia's interests must be defended, I find myself in the Galician Nationalist Block. The BNG strategy defending Galicia's interests, really, is a loop. First, you always rule with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Second, they always vote in favour of the investment of a president of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Third, they say they get big deals for the country. And fourth, it's believed that they can't achieve anything because of what they say they can't accomplish anything, and then they're still ruling with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in all institutions. Is this really a model of defending Galician interests? But, Mrs. Pontón, this will be a joke. I was already here as president when you voted for Zapatero and brought big amendments. I remember all the amendments you could get for the VA between Ferrol and La Coruña. With all the assumptions that Zapatero has been given and the amendments to the Iron VA to the Crown should have been working years ago, and it turns out there's not a single kilometer of AVE between Ferrol and La Coruña. Your Honor, you're talking about the distributions of the next generation funds. But if you just gave them the visa and please the 2021 budget! And you just gave your visa and you just enjoyed Mr. Sánchez's investment session, and for nothing did they even sign what they owe us, the 500 million Euros of VAT and the fulfilment of the public deficit. For nothing do you speak of Alcoa, not even if you speak of Navantia, why bother the government with the frigates! But, really, Mrs. Pontón, do you invite me to imitate the Galician Nationalist Block? The Galego Nationalist Block, in this chamber, at the investment session, turns out that it denounces the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and then you go out the door to rule with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. You'll understand, Your Honor, that's not the model. The model is loyalty, the denunciation in case of non-compliance and negotiation, and, of course, lordship, I will not depart from this commitment to the Greeks, and while the Greeks give me a break that is the attitude we must maintain: neither the confrontation which the Socialist Party denounces for defending Galicia's interests nor the joke and pharisaism of the Nationalist Galego Bloc denouncing the Socialist Party and ruling with the Socialist Party without changing itself, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u27	A little respect to the House and, above all, a little respect to the Greeks and the Greeks! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u28	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u29	Well, Mr. Feijóo, you begin your intervention with paternalism to justify your inability to defend Galician interests before the state. I think it would be nice if we could have a debate where there was no personal disqualification, I think this House would thank you and the Greeks and the Greeks, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] In any case, I'm glad BNG serves as an inspiration... finally, it's fine. And I would also like to clarify some questions. First of all, I'm sure BNG voted in favour of Pedro Sánchez's investment, you know why? Because the alternative was the People's Party and Vox; it's so simple, Mr. Feijóo. And of course we should be inspired by him! And of course we should be inspired by it, because thanks to BNG, the Greeks and the Greeks will have a historic downturn in AP-9's beaches. [[Interruptions.]] Of course, I'm glad we're inspired! [[Murmurs.]] But, look, who's comfortable, who's delighted with you in the presidency of the Union is the Government of Sánchez, he's delighted, you know why? Because all discrimination with Galicia is free of charge. That's right, well, Mr. Feijóo gets gallit when it comes to defending the Ence, although he continues to pollute Pontevedra's stream, but when it comes to defending Galicia's interests, you're comfortable for the central government. [[Applause]] And look, what's clear is your inability to defend Galicia's interests in a crucial matter as the future of this country will be in relation to what position we're going to remain in the Next Generation, which I think is one of the most key issues. And the reality is that on this issue, it is obvious that they are unable to defend the interests of this country. And I'm very afraid that in the case of the Next Generation... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u30	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u31	...they ended up being a monumental fiasco for Galicia. A monumental fiasco for your inability to put forward the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, and also for the opacity with which you are managing this whole matter. Look, since the BNG we have a very clear position, we believe that Galicia should receive 12,600 million euros from these Next Generation funds, but unfortunately, I'm very afraid that the final amount we're going to get will be far away from this figure and that it will end up in the hands of a handful of multinationals. And we see how Galicia will miss an opportunity to lay the foundations of a model change that leads us to sustainability, to bet on science and innovation, to put in place a defense of public services or gender equality. I, Mr. Feijóo, think you're mistaken as an opponent, not to come to the control session disqualifying the spokesperson for the BNG, it's about defending Galician interests. Exercise President and avoid that monumental fiasco for Galicia in the Next Generation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Close the question. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u33	What this is about, Mrs. Pontón, is to tell the Greeks the truth. What is concerned is not to appear his rejection of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and rule with him even in the Deputy of Lugo. What it's about, Mrs. Pontón, is not to take people's hair. What we're talking about is serious business. What it's about, Your Honor, is doing your homework. What it's about is not to come here saying that we don't want to make a deal with anyone and you vote against any proposal from the majority parliamentary group. What we are talking about is that, when we agree, we vote in favour, as we voted in favour of your proposals yesterday, and it is not the first one; it would be exceptional if you voted in favour of some proposal from the majority group. And I regret, Your Honor, that the BNG is in an improper drift from a nationalist party that defends Galicia's interests, because what you really defend is its organic interests and its absolutely limited, reduced form, from Galicia of all. Therefore, Your Honor, to criticize the Government of the Socialist Party on a daily basis and to rule with the Socialist Party on a daily basis is something that a president of the Union has to denounce. And I publicly denounce that you are here giving lessons in defending Galicia's interests by criticizing the Socialist Party and ruling with them in all institutions of the autonomous community. And that's not attacking anyone, that's doing an X-ray of what happens. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, BNG's proposals are the ones that led to your election program, which counts them as if they were news. The electoral program that was rejected by most of the Greeks and that, if you refuse in this House, we don't want to deal with the BNG, it's a surprising thing. And it turns out that the election program supported by most of the Greeks is never supported by BNG; that's his strategy, Mrs. Pontón. But, look, we're gonna keep working. We stand alone defending the law to manage the Galician pandemic, you voted against, like VOX, just like the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party -- they already have something in common --. I don't know why you laugh, what else do you, if you match VOX, well, this is a question... what's surprising is that you match VOX against Galicia's interests, that's, yes, clearly surprising. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But the truth and truth, Your Honor, is that it is legitimate for everyone to defend his position, of course. Now, to say that you with 19 Members defend Galicia's interests and we, with 42, do not defend them is like coming a little pretentious, Mrs Pontón. Do you think Galicia votes against itself? [[Murmurs.]] Do you think the Greeks don't defend themselves when they vote but attack? Mrs. Pontón, I know we're not at your level, you're now worried about the annexation of the Beer or about ending the lab patents to keep them investigating. Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect... look, I have the same position as President Zapatero, President Rajoy and President Sánchez and what happens to President Sánchez, if I continue in this House; you don't. If it's PP, against it, and if it's PSOE, please. That's not Galicia's interests; no, Your Honor, no. History will judge who defends Galicia's interests and who simply defends its ideology and its organic interests. Look, Mrs. Pontón, I'm telling you from the highest point of view, if there's a dependent party in Galicia, it's the BNG. Yes, yes, you are dependent on the form of independent parties and are dependent on the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. We are dependent on the Greeks and the Greeks, on their interests yesterday, today and tomorrow. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u34	Thank you. [[Applause]] We're still on the agenda. Proposal for a non-law of the Galician People's Group, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on the shipyards of Navantia, in the Ferrol River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u35	An amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, sets out the following amendment to this non-law:Additional amendment:Add the following text to the resolution:"The Parliament urges the Board of Galicia, in relation to the workload in Navantia-Ría de Ferrol, to demand the Government of the State:1. The entry into the Navantia Board of Directors, as set out in the Statute for the Italian Autonomy, and the Law on the Promotion of the Galician Naval Sector.2. The establishment of a work table for the diversification of activities in the Center of Navantia-Ría de Ferrol, between the government of the Spanish State, the Junta de Galicia, the SEPI, and the management of Navantia.3. The immediate paralysis of the Navantia management plan to transfer Fene facilities to the private company Windar.4. Guarantees that the floating marine wind projects in which Navantia participates will be carried out in the center of Fene.5. To maintain the majority participation of Navantia in the UTE with Windar, or any other company, to ensure a proper economic return, the current position on this market, as well as control over subcontracting of companies, and more on labour conditions.6. The immediate adjudication and execution of the works of transformation of the ship GALICIA, of the Ministry of Defence, the Navantia River of Ferrol."]] [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Member, Martín Seco García, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to this table the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of amendment:The resolution of the initiative must be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Ask the Government of Spain:a. Provide immediate workload for Navantia shipyards in Ferrol for both main staff and auxiliary industry.b. Develop 100% the Industrial Plan agreed and the Starry 4.0 project for railway yard installations.2. Use the competences of autonomy in economics, industry and training for:a. Develop a plan for economic reactivation of the districts of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal, with serious problems of deindustrialisation.b. To participate more actively in the development of Ferrol Station 4.0, which includes projects for the collection of European funds on the railway yard.c. To carry out a training plan for workers in the sector's auxiliary industry in order to ensure the competitiveness of the sector and continuity in the activity of a highly skilled workforce.d. It shall draw up a plan for the collection of industrial activities linked to the marine wind industry, which may include other sectors which are strategic for the region, so that port facilities, communications and industrial soil are used."]] Mr. Calvo has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u36	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. The People's Parliamentary Group comes to this House, as we undertake, to demand what is right and what is ours; to demand what the Government of Spain denies us and for more than three years does nothing at all. We ask, once again, for the support of this House so that the Government will approve the construction of the bridge ship in Ferrol, be it a BAM, be it an AOR, or another type of vessel, until the construction of the F-110 frigates begins. As you can see, it's nothing new, or it looks like. The situation in Ferrol has already been commented on on on the other occasions when this initiative has been demanded, and there is a widespread conviction of all political forces of the need to reactivate our naval industry. I'm not going to influence what is the economic situation of a city where in the last 40 years 30,000 inhabitants have been less, with the highest unemployment rate in Galicia or the highest poverty risk rate in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] We're not going to stop until we've compromised the workload for Navantia in Ferrol. And it's not enough for this House to vote in favour of these initiatives every time they come here. It is not enough until we get an agreement from the Council of Ministers, which is the only way to solve this situation in which we find ourselves. But let's go aside. Because in previous debates we hear things that deserve to be pointed out. First, the budget, Mr. Voice of the Socialist Party, to build the frigates F-110. The start of the budget to build the frigates F-110, 250 million euros, was included in the 2018 budgets by the President of the Government, who was Mariano Rajoy, in 2018, by the President of the Government, who was Mariano Rajoy. I want to say that because sometimes we try to change or we make up stories to try to distort reality. No, it was 2018. At three days of approving the budget, there was a motion of censure, at three days, but the budget was approved. It is more, it was approved in 2018, it was extended in 2019, and it was extended in 2020; and there were these 250 million euros to begin the construction of the frigates and the Government of the Socialist Party did absolutely nothing. And that government too was what he put on the table, through a study unit, in which he also participated in the Galician Union and the people of the university, which were the needs to put Ferrol's yard in conditions of competitiveness worldwide. A study was conducted and a strategic plan for Navantia was made, in fact, that contained the construction of a dry dam and put the workshops around the dry dam to improve the competitiveness of the yard. That was also done and during these years nothing was done at all. But I said there was a novelty. And there's a novelty because we finally realized what the Socialist Party's face was in this matter. Last week this same initiative was discussed in the Senate. And I may not believe what I'm going to tell you here right now, but I invite you to see the video that I'm going to hang up on social networks when the intervention is over to find out what the Socialist Party's wish to talk about this matter is. This same initiative, a senator from Ferrol, took her to the Senate plenary. When it came to speaking to a member, the representative of the Socialist Party, first, the Greek senators in the room went... first, the Greek senators in the room went; second, when he gave the floor to the representative of the Socialist Party, no one answered because he was not, no one knew what to stand on in this matter; none of the representatives of the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] Finally, one says that he has no position and that he cannot intervene, and another senator of the Socialist Party appears and says -- and I'm going to read the Minutes of the Journal of Sessions so as not to be mistaken -- the Socialist Group, Mr. Blanco Angel: "Thank you, Your Honor. The Socialist Group cannot support this motion. We understand that it is not the competence of the Senate to approve the commission of military ships for companies such as Navantia. I believe that this kind of specific motions clearly exceed the purpose of this House and above all comply with the general budgets of the State." [[Applause]] Man, but there were 250 million euros for three years in the budgets and he didn't do anything! [[Applause]] And he didn't do anything! [[Murmurs.]] But it follows: "They obey the general budgets of the State and the plans that already exist for Navantia. There are a number of business projects...", indeed, the construction of the frigates, 3 years, 250 million, a strategic plan of Navantia: the dry dam, all the workshops around the dry dam; 3 years and peak forgotten by the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] And he says, "...within which he has no room. We understand that these plans are sufficient and that is what has been approved for Navantia. This motion, therefore, has no room and we reject it." [[Applause]] Major intervention by the Socialist Party defending Galicia, defending Ferrol, and defending Navantia. [[Murmurs.]] But even though we all know, even though we deny it, that the situation that goes through Ferrol today is caused by the conversion that the Socialist Party made in Ferrol. There were two conversions, the two protagonists of the Socialist Party, and today -- almost 40 years later -- this is the Socialist Party's interest in Ferrol, Navantia and Galicia. But I would say more: this is the interest that the Socialist Party of Galicia has in defending these initiatives or in positioning its party these initiatives in Madrid, this is the interest. This is the Journal of Sessions, if you don't believe it, I'll make it available. And besides -- as I said -- the video will be so that everyone can see it at all. But, of course, this may some think that it's a PP position, which comes half angry there to say what the Socialist Party's position is. Let's see what the unions said this week, that none are likely to be considered a friend of the PP. For the unions say that the situation is very worrisome; they say, among other things: "Worker Commissions and Navantia Ferrol has accused the government of treating public shipyards as a private chiringuit by placing politicians with unabated wages they know nothing. This is what the union section points out in a statement sent to the media that conveys its deepest disappointment and indignation." It means that in the last three years the Socialist Government has appointed three different presidents from Navantia -- in three three years three, this is rarely seen --. But it says, "The people we work in Navantia have made a great effort to negotiate an industrial plan in 2018, which would guarantee the future of our company and our comarcas, but without a change of course as it was at that time -- refer to the previous era, that of Mariano Rajoy, and to the former director of Navantia, Esteban Vila Sánchez, a man of the house as all the unions were asked for all their lives, and that was what he did most to put on the table all these projects -- we will soon return to the catastrophic situation.", the Workers' Committees pointed out, it's not the People's Party. But, of course, some might think this is one more exaggeration. But, look, three presidents in three years; the current, Ricardo Domínguez, is an agronomous engineer; he used to be a forest. In SAES, one of the companies specialized in acoustic and submarine electronics, they put Joaquín López, a lawyer, in Sainsel, Susana Hernández, nurse. It's a company that has engineering solutions in defense, surveillance and security. At ENUSA, which is the one who deals with the supply of enriched uranium, they put a graduate in Philosophy -- I'm glad that between the Socialist Voice Lord, because yesterday he was talking about this --. Renfe got a degree in history. Of course, how can we not doubt the AVE! Mail hires a company that is based in Panama. These things don't concern the representatives of the Socialist Party, they don't worry. Do you understand why we're worried about Navantia? Because in three years they've been three presidents, and each one who comes knows less about the ship, knows less about this industry, and knows less about ships than the previous one. And, of course, that committee... this isn't new, because it's done with Navantia, but the famous committee of experts on the vault we've seen as it was. [[Applause]] That is why we do not want this initiative to be approved again today, that there is unanimity in adopting this initiative, and that when the Greek representatives of the Socialist Party arrive in Madrid, they leave the committee so that they do not have to vote. And the spokesman who chooses the Socialist Party to defend this initiative says that there is no need, that for that are the budgets, and he votes against this initiative. This is the history of Ferrol with the naval and the Socialist Party for the last 30 years. That's why we're going to keep insisting on each and every month, as we commit ourselves, to bring this initiative, saying it's necessary to hire that bridge ship until the F-110 frigates begin. And, look!, because also in the Senate -- they should control the Senate -- also in the Senate, the Secretary of State of Defense, at a question from a spokesperson from the Popular Group, he said there was no need to build a bridge ship, and the F-110 frigates would begin in the middle of next year. If we trust what he says, if we trust what he says, suppose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u38	...that the Socialist Party -- finished, president -- will delay four years the start of the construction of the F-110 frigates. That's the reality, and that's the facts, and against that we ask you for help in trying to change that situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u39	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u40	Thank you very much, President. Look, when you don't tell the whole truth you lie, Mr. Calvo. So on the basis that it is true that in that debate there was a mistake on the part of the Socialist Group and none of the Welsh senators were present who could defend that proposal, and it is therefore true that we admit that error and apologize to citizenship, which cannot be used by saying that the Greek senators escaped. That's a lie, Mr. Calvo, you know it and you lie here knowing that's false. [[Applause]] And on the other hand, it gives the feeling many times that you want to teach exactly what you don't. Because I don't know if the representative of the Port Authority of Coruña, who is an architect, or that of Vigo, who is a doctor, are people specializing in port matters, or whether the deputy director of Agader, where the former deputy who is a professor, is also in a position where he should be. If the Middle Rural Counsellor, who is a Finance Inspector, is also in preparation, or you yourself, who come to debate on industry, you and Mr. Tellado, when they don't have any kind of studies on industrial matters. I think they confuse management with technical posts. [[Applause]] Look, you bring this initiative back to the plenary because you know that failure in the railway yard would not be solved until the beginning of the construction of the F-110 with which you are proposing, because you don't have a short enough procedure to be useful. But that gives the People's Party exactly the same thing, to which, in this situation, the only thing that happens to them -- nothing more and nothing less than the Government, than the party that supports the Greek Government -- surely these are issues, because they have a bad conscience about what they did earlier in Navantia, for a problem generated by their abandonment of Navantia during the seven years of the Government. And because of the absolute failure to have clear their powers so that they can bridge these kinds of workloads for contractors with aid and training for them, of those who have competences in Galician Union, and I don't know what they're waiting for to set them up, gentlemen of the People's Party, if this concerns them so much. They ruled two laws in which the company broke financially, that's right, and they put the projects into a drawer for Ferrol, which is also so, even though they try to conceal it by saying things like what Mr. Calvo said today. And what was Feijóo and the Popular Party doing while this happened? Shut up, then always shut up, always subject to the interests of his party, and to the interests of Mr. Morenés, Mr. Calvo, who also seems to be forgotten. In the People's Party, instead of being occupied with governing Galicia, in this time of pandemic, and seeing what they can contribute, they are concerned about opposing the Government of the State. The situation in which they left Navantia, the reason why they put the F-110 project in a drawer, the situation in which the world naval is located, the important thing is to try to hide their skills, better said, the industrial policy incompetence of the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, which has been without politics in this matter for 12 years. The situation in the naval sector in times of crisis in the coronavirus seems to be of no concern to them. That in the naval defence market is giving a replanning of the military naval programmes provided for by budgetary readjustments, with a fall in the export market and with a global tendency to protect and develop each country's respective industrial bases, they don't care at all, what gives! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is the current landscape in the naval defence sector, and the difficulties that you have to face in Navantia a future since the crisis of the coward. But let's go back, let's talk, as always -- because you keep bringing this initiative -- about the situation in which Navantia was left in 2018, with your government, the one that put in value and left a budget that says you were going to execute. What he said he was going to do in another situation would be Galicia! We observe the work portfolio of Navantia, that is, the amount of contracts signed during the People's Party Government, Mr Calvo, with an intense fall during the period 2012 to 2017, which caused a great economic blow in the company, which was currently financed by Sepi's participatory loans worth 1,500 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the company was in a technical breakdown, it seems they never mean this, which is involved in the dissolution of the Capital Corporations Act, supported solely by the participatory loans of this entity and therefore in a difficult situation caused by the incapacity, incompetence and failure of Navantia by the Popular Government of Mariano Rajoy. And that lack of portfolio is now visible in industrial activity, three or four years later, as it must be, since in the years 2018 and 2019 this portfolio was recovered, essentially with the F-110 program that the current government, Mr. Calvo, signed it to the current Defence Minister -- and the S-80 in Cartagena, going from 1,680 million in 2017 to 7,747 million euros by the end of 2020. These are data. In December 2018, with the current government at the forefront, they signed the 2018-2022 Strategic Plan, with an agreement with the representatives of the workers, with the aim of achieving the company's viability by maintaining activity in all centres, modernizing processes and installations with the digital transformation bench, relegating the template and adapting it to the needs of the market, despite the situation in which you left the company. Under this government, 100 percent of jobs are maintained, nobody is dismissed at all, even with this situation where the company was left, and new people are being hired while older staff are retired through the ERE agreed with unions in the employment plan, with staff re-emerging up to 600 recruits planned for Galicia in the next few years, and today they are being incorporated into Ferrol 65 workers and junior employees. Since the arrival of the current state government, we've moved away from the technical breakdown of what he was talking about and the lack of a workbook, to which Ferrol is the yard that in the future has a higher volume of workbook, with the execution of the biggest frigate program in recent years. It is true that it is a pity this period of work that we are living in, especially for the assistants, derived from the forgetfulness to which Rajoy's Government has submitted the project of the new frigates F-110, Mr. Calvo. But we already know how the People's Party works: when it doesn't govern it dedicates itself to promising, then it speaks and demands a lot, so that it doesn't do anything about the promised. I won't remind you again where those juicy contracts with Pemex were going to bring Mr. Feijóo, the construction of dozens of ships to the Mexican company, or the famous floating dam they were going to build in Ferrol. Where is everything you say the People's Party would do? Like everything they do in industrial matters, smoke, unique and exclusively smoke. Real result of his passage through the Government of Spain in Navantia: he breaks the company's technique and lacks workload, and failure to modernise the yard. Yes, Mr. Tellado, yes, Mr. Tellado, though it bothers you. [[Murmurs.]] But you could also be president of Navantia, just as opt for it with your industrial preparation that has a great industrial preparation! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u41	Mr. Tellado, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u42	They should have explained to them, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why they had two years in a drawer the project of the F-110s, until the arrival of the Socialist Government, which signed the contracts that would involve investment of more than EUR 4 billion, guaranteeing ten years of workload and creating up to 7,000 jobs. Yes, Mr. Tellado, even if it bothers you. They should tell you, you should sit with the assistant workers every time they bring this matter to Parliament, which was the particular interests of Minister Morenés to paralyze the project. Why did the Government of the People's Party so interested in putting the MBDA company's missiles on the frigates against the Navy's own approach? [[Applause]] You tell them. And what was this company's relationship with Minister Morenés of the People's Party? And after I tell them, I'm sorry, they should ask them for forgiveness. It's a pity the current government has arrived to unlock this situation and to be able to give Navantia a future in Ferrol. According to Navantia itself, the deadlines for the F-110 programme are being met without delay, and there are few dates when one of the engineering approval milestones has been completed in a program that runs in time and form, according to planning, and in the first quarter of 2022, the construction of the frigates will be planned. The F-110 program has not yet taken the pace of production it has to have, because it has a very complex engineering since, among other things, technologies of [...] digital and artificial intelligence are developing, which suppose prototypes that need to be designed specifically before entering construction. This technological development is unique in this country right now, and it is developing in Ferrol, which means an investment in innovation that will be exportable to the civil world, and that will also allow the F-110 to be exported internationally, by directly reverting to the Ferrol economy and supporting the productive fabric of the defence industry in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I always tell you, they can add and contribute something positive, not just bring this initiative as if they did something with it, after leaving the yard as they left it. They can collaborate from the Galician Union, it would not be wrong to give a boost to the yard 4.0 project, as it is collected in the plan itself, they can put more resources into the autonomous administration, they can work from the public policies of the Galician Union so that the yard can get a greater workload and new investments, or they can continue to profile leaving the Government of the State and, worse, all citizens of abandoned Ferroterra, can continue their propaganda policy in the media, but Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal urgently need a plan for their reindustrialization and not three Members of the People's Party. Because auxiliary companies should have alternatives to work in the area and you are unable to generate and maintain industrial activity. They put help on the table for auxiliary companies -- they can do it -- and a training plan for workers in this sector in order to strengthen the competitiveness of these workers and give continuity in the activity to a highly skilled workforce. Why don't you bring so many initiatives from the Galician Union in order to help them? [[Applause]] They develop a plan to capture industrial activities linked to marine wind, which may include other sectors that are strategic to the region using the port facilities, communications and industrial soil we have. From the Socialist Party they know we're going to vote in favour of this proposal, because, if you do, it would be fine, but we know it's only good to wash the face of your own bad conscience that Mr. Tellado, Mr. Calvo and Mr. Rey have. Because it's three Members and they're doing absolutely nothing for the Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u44	...take initiatives in your skills to do something, something, -- I don't say much anymore -- something for Ferrol districts. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u45	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u46	Good morning to all and to all. For the fourth time, the People's Party is bringing to the German Parliament an initiative in which the Union urges the Government of the State to exist from the construction of a BAM in Navantia Ría de Ferrol, a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy, for the fourth time. On three previous occasions, this proposal took the vote in favour of the whole House, that is, always, on every occasion, it voted in favour of the whole of the German Parliament so that the Union would demand the Government of the State to build this BAM in Navantia Ría de Ferrol. We would like to know whether, after adopting these initiatives in Parliament, the Union actually requires the Government of the State to build this ship. We'd like to know who, how and when that requirement is realized. And we would also like to know the answer they receive; from whom, how, and when that answer is produced. It's the least I could expect -- we understand that we -- that you realize how you manage the support you receive from this Parliament and where your need remains. Because if you don't, these debates and initiatives that you're promoting are not completely sterile, they're directly a coat of hair. And in the case of an initiative like this, which you systematically promote, because it's a systematic seizure of hair to a region, to a society that's not for games or for hair. [[Applause]] A society that went to a comarcal strike last March 10th to denounce an absolutely dramatic situation. A region in which the closure of Endesa has just been announced in the Bridges; the closure of Siemens Gamesa in the Somozas; which this month ends the shipbuilding work in Navantia. And that, in addition to this serious industrial crisis, there is a situation of total collapse in the river, with a drop in production of 90%. Finally, a region in a dramatic situation, a region that does not reach 50 percent of the active population, a region that loses four times as much population as Galicia's average. By the way, the loss of population that has indeed been producing, for 40 years, a loss of systematic population and continues for the last 40 years. And in the face of this situation, the only thing the People's Party knows to say is that the problems of the county of Ferrol are solved every Tuesday at the Council of Ministers. This is the last slogan of the People's Party factory: the problems of the district of Ferrol are solved every Tuesday at the Council of Ministers. Do you mean that the Union, that the German Government, has nothing to do to solve the problems of Ferrol County, which has no competence, which has no abilities, and, above all, that has no responsibilities? If the answer is no, then what the Board has to do, what the Greek Government has to do in full is resigning from the first to the last. Because the disgrace of the People's Party and the Union is already reaching a level that is difficult to imagine. Because it was done that they have no repair, and while they're told that the thing isn't going with you, suddenly, in the Fourth Anniversary of the Galician Autonomy Statute, to proclaim the four winds -- in the words of President Feijóo -- that the 40 years of the Autonomy Statute are a success story, that the Italian self-government is a story of a success that allowed Galicia to develop its own policies by keeping the networks of its decisions. It's amazing how they can go from bragging about developing their own policies and keeping the networks of our decisions, sending us to the front window all week long. 40 years of success, 40 years in which Ferrol lost a third of his population produced 40 years of vetoes, reductions and industrial restrictions! Of 40 years of political decisions made from Madrid by one and the other, in which if anything shone by their absence it was and it is still self-government. 40 years of exploitation of our energy resources for the development of other territories and the benefit of foreign companies. 40 years of aggression in the Ferrol River and to manage our marine wealth as if of prescindable exotism. 40 years of self-governance and exclusive competences in seafood for a study of the river situation to be carried out by the Ministry of Transport. 40 years of dependence on the Council of Ministers and the non-existence of a Greek Government with the will and vocation to rule a people who is in need of something is precisely an authentic self-government. If there's anything we need and need, it's a government that has a future project for this country and for these districts. This is your best portrait, celebrating a non-exercising self-government and what they refuse. They celebrate self-government but reduce the problem of shipbuilding in the district of Ferrol to which the Council of Ministers entrusts a BAM. They celebrate self-government but reduce the debate about the energy model to the projects of large energy companies. They celebrate self-government but block the regeneration of the Ferrol River until the Ministry of Transport takes the initiative. You celebrate the success of 40 years of statute as they send us all and all to be put in the window of the Council of Ministers. So the People's Party's proposal to resolve the situation in the county of Ferrol is that the Council of Ministers should commission a BAM, a military ship, and also a small one. Are you really unable to claim for Navantia Ría de Ferrol for the end of the veto? Are you unable to claim for Navantia Ría de Ferrol the possibility of competing in all markets? Are they really going to continue to assume these vetoes acritically? Are they really going to put loyalty to those prejudicial decisions made 40 years ago before the industrial reactivation of the region and the possibility that we have work and the future on our own land? Is that really the only recipe they have for Ferrol's comarca is another cup of the same stupid soup that condemns us to a permanent anemia? 40 years of success. Why isn't Galician Union represented on the Navantia Board of Directors after 40 years of success, as provided for by Galician Self-Government Statute itself? Why, after 40 years of self-government successes, does the Board of Gaulza paint nothing, absolutely nothing, in the crisis caused in the location of the Bridges by the closure of the thermal? How is it possible that, after 40 years of success of self-government, in the Ferrol River there are B zones, C areas and some unclassified ones, while the entire Mediterranean coast is zone A? How is it possible that, after 40 years of success of self-government and at the doors of a boom in the installation of wind farms in Galicia, Siemens Gamesa shifted the production of his Somozas factory to take her to Portugal? It seems, frankly, that the only success of self-government is to put PP's ex-counsellers in Ence or Greenalia. Tell us, please, what is the plan of the Government of Wales, the project of the Government of Wales to deal with the dramatic crisis that lives in the county of Ferrol, if they have it, and if they don't, immediately put themselves to work in collaboration with the comarcal society, which is asking them to do so. [[Applause]] And in the meantime, less celebration, less party and more work. By the way, it's in the press today that the Cantabrian president, Mr. Revilla, will chair a visit to the Astander yard to celebrate, "he does," literally says the chronicle, that "the ship Ebrima, of Barreras, will end in Santander." Finally, neither at Barreras nor Navantia, an entire success of the Galician Union. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, claim the BAM, we all agree, but do so and account for the results of that demand. Give explanations to the county of Ferrol. They also claim to join the Navantia Board of Directors, claim to end restrictions and be able to compete in all markets. Get involved in the future of Navantia, which is the same thing to say be involved in the future of Ferrol. And they demand for the adjudication and initiation of the works of the Galician ship, the only one that can guarantee the current workload. They unlock the development of the fair transition agreement for The Bridges, and engage with their own resources in the transition and reactivation of the village. They unlock the works to re-regine Ferrol's laugh, they exercise their powers. That's the least I should have ever done any government; while they don't, really, we have nothing to celebrate. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u47	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u48	Thank you, President. To wash the wrong conscience, you started very well asking for forgiveness. I think I should apologize not only because the German senators had gone before this motion but also because of the Socialist Party's attitude towards the naval sector over the past 40 years. If he had, we would have applauded, but he didn't. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Bad conscience is that they have others. [[Applause]] And we didn't put the F-110 projects in the drawer. You say we don't know about industry. Home!, I don't know if you've ever visited Navantia, I'd like you to come to a visit, check what's a boat and check how a yard works. [[Murmurs.]] To get a contract, you have to work for years, be civil, be military, be of any kind. You have to work for years to get that contract. And you have to compete with other shipyards in other parts of the world, you don't seem to know that. The F-110 had to work in Defense too to get ahead of that project and it took a long time. Do you know why he left? Because there were people who were from the yard, who knew what was in his hands and could keep going, and that's why he got into Mariano Rajoy's budgets. At three days' approval of the budgets there was a motion of censure, of course the order was not signed! but if it did not give time!, three days, Mr. Voice of the Socialist Party. What do you say is the opinion of the unions? What I was reading here before the unions said didn't say it by the People's Party, the unions tell it, and that's what they're saying. What is clear is that the Galician Union has been working with Navantia for these years, all the requests that Navantia made to the Galician Union have been heeded. There were two research units where there was also the university, where there were many other agents, and the unions were also present. And it came to a series of conclusions that were later reflected in the strategy plan of Navantia, which the Socialist Party put in a drawer. In that strategic plan, we studied how it had to be the yard of the future so we could continue to be competitive in the world. They visited all the shipyards in the world, they saw what their way of work was, and they were trying to modernize the yard to take out Navantia too; and they agreed with the unions, they said it, I don't say it, they said it. And what did the Socialist Government do when it arrived? Stop. Stop, Mr. Seco! Stop! The Socialist Party! Don't talk about what you don't know, don't talk about what you don't know! And don't read what they put on or what they command you from your party. I really do appreciate it, but don't do that, and I say it for you. [[Applause]] What is clear is that, politically, the Socialist Party is completely useless in defending the interests of Galicia and Ferrol in Madrid, which is totally useless. [[Applause]] It's like it's not for nothing, Mr. Seco! [[Murmurs.]] And look, Mr Spokesman of the BNG Parliamentary Group, Ferrol's situation is dramatic, so we agree. No one here celebrates anything, I don't know what you mean, no one celebrates anything. What I can tell you is that we will continue to bring these initiatives into this Chamber, because they are not sterile debates. These are debates in which it is essential that people, the neighbors know what the position of each group is. And this is a place of debate, of bringing initiatives and asking for things. It's here, it's here, it's not in the street behind a sign. The money is the money that Rajoy put in the budgets, the money that Rajoy put in the budgets, and you should know it, and the board, and the board too. [[Applause]] But look, he said it's hair jackets. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, what's hair takeover is what BNG does. I know that the BNG voting this initiative bothers you, it bothers you. Yes, yes, yes, it bothers you. In fact, all the amendments presented by the BNG never talk about military naval construction. The military naval construction involves a complicated situation. So, when they talk about workload for Navantia, they talk about the Galician ship, they talk about removing the limits of civil naval construction, but they never talk about construction -- yes, of course --...they don't talk about what is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u49	Quiet, quiet! No, no, please. Mr. Fernández Alfonso, you've already had your turn. No, no, but this is the debate, this is Parliament's interesting thing, to know how to speak and how to listen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is Parliament's greatness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u50	I took it too, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u51	That's why everybody's here, but this is the problem, and then you have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u52	Look, you guys, every time they bring an initiative, they always try to sidetrack. Then, of course, there's no other remedy left to vote because if they don't vote, they're portrayed. And when you get to Ferrol like me, then you have to explain the vote. That's why they always try to diversify stories. No, look, the situation is extremely complicated, complicated. And the first thing you can do, the easiest thing you can do to win, I don't know if weeks, months or a year, the first thing you can do, not the only one, the first thing you can do is to burden the yards with work. It's fundamental. And who can give the shipyards an urgent, rapid task force, is the Ministry of Defence or, ultimately, the Government of Spain. They're the ones that can give you the immediate solution, why? So that a lot of people in the auxiliaries don't go to the streets. And you know that. That's the immediate solution, not the only one. In the rest of the solutions, we all have to get involved, including the Galician Union. Of course, we're not denying that here, we're not denying that at all. What we're saying is that right now, in this situation, we have to give that bridge ship. By the way, the Navy needs those ships. In recent years, many more ships have been removed than have been discharged. Today there's a news about the Patiño ship in the press, which seems to be that the Portuguese Navy might be interested. Perfect, perfect. Another Skateship is built immediately. In Ferrol they can start with a ship like the Skate or an AOR or a BAM in two weeks, or in three, when the iron arrives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u54	When the iron comes. So here's what we're going to do and what we're doing is to say that in this dramatic situation that we're living -- finished, president -- in this dramatic situation, we have to give you a solution, that this solution has to give you the party that was guilty of conversion and that, ultimately, that's what brought us here. And you stop having that condescension. The president said it very well in Question Time: "Hey! here we criticize the PSOE, we criticize everything and then we rule everywhere with them. But what are we talking about? Mrs. Pontón has already said, what's this about is that the PP doesn't govern, the rest doesn't matter, and that's what there is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u55	About the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u56	No, we don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u57	Thank you. Marina, it's you, it's your turn. It's your turn. It's your turn. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the recognition of the degree of disability reviewed in the years 2019 and 2020 and the telephone ratings that are being carried out for their obtaining
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u58	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presents the following amendment to this non-law proposal: Amendment to amend the first subparagraph, which would be drawn up as follows:"1.- To refer to the Parliament of Galicia a detailed report on the number of disability assessments carried out in 2020 by each of the Evaluation and Orientation Teams (EVO) indicating the procedure followed in each of them (presence or telematic), the waiting time until recognition of the degree of disability, as well as the waiting list existing by provinces."Additional amendment Add in point two the following text to the end: "Strengthen, if necessary, EVOs with the personnel necessary to ensure the presence and compliance of the legal deadlines established in access to disability assessments."]] To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u59	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the percentage of disability is not only a number, but this is what will determine access to many of the rights that belong to the part of the citizenship that you have or will have a disability or diversity in the future. The process that a person goes through to receive the degree of disability resolution is long and hard. Those people who ask for it because of acquired health problems come on many occasions of hard and long processes, pending diagnoses that sometimes have an obvious difficulty of acceptance and adaptation that the person himself has to face in complex moments of assuming within the life cycle of a person who acquires a disability. But all this is necessary to achieve the degree of disability resolution, that role that is the umbilical cord that gives rise to certain rights to which a person with disabilities or diversity has access. The request for recognition of the degree of disability is the formula needed to obtain the degree of disability certificate that guides people in such circumstances to access to rights or benefits. The valuation guidelines, according to the competent administration itself, are based, above all, on the effects of the ability to carry out the basic activities of the individual's daily life. This recognition is made through the EVOs, Guidance Valuation Teams, dependent on the Board and, in particular, the Social Policy Council. The people affected, as well as the professionals themselves of the matter, know perfectly well that the numbers on that paper often condition access to certain rights or benefits. In these resolutions, reaching 33 %, for example, or 65 % are key figures that will determine access to a number of tax, labour, economic, educational or social benefits. The EVOs are multidisciplinary teams, trained by medical staff in the field of psychology and social work, who perform specific actions, the evaluation and qualification of disability, as well as guidance for the empowerment, rehabilitation and measures aimed at favouring people with disabilities. And here comes the problem. Currently, assessments for the recognition of the degree of disability are being made to a large extent by telephone valuations. In view of the case-law to be dealt with, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that, immediately and with all precautions, and in compliance with health legislation, present assessments by the Joining Valuation Teams should be resumed. [[Applause]] It is clear that the assessment of a question that will determine certain rights to persons with disabilities, which will condition these rights, has to give optimally, in a face-to-face manner, with all guarantees, which will optimize the quality of persons with disabilities. How do I evaluate the basic abilities of a person's daily life by phone? How can I evaluate, for example, a visual disability or a deaf-blind by phone? This is happening in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen. And what's more serious is they're solving files with a decrease in grade after the phone ratings. We're asking the German Government to stop this now, right away. On the other day, in Commission 5a, the Director-General for Integral Social Health Care answered a question by the Socialist Group and informed that the suspension of presence appointments by the Disability Assessment Teams was total from the beginning of the pandemic. And he acknowledged that disability assessments are now usually carried out on a telephone basis, except, as he indicated, when it is not possible to determine the degree of disability by these methods. They'll tell us if you see it as possible, for example, in a case of deaf-blindness. Even so, it provided the following data required by our group: the percentage of non-presentative grade resolutions, i.e. telematics, in 2020 was raised to 37% of the total. And it must be borne in mind that in the first quarter of 2020 there was not yet the declared pandemic. And second, the percentage of file reviews decreased by 2020, which is the year in which we have data. In this 2021 the situation remains the same, but we have no data yet; in 2020, a total decrease in telematic calls by 15.62%. Only one and a half points of difference with regard to the pre-cavid year, the year 2019, and once again considering that the first quarter of 2020 does not count on this. Given this data, we're talking about how many people were first reviewed or evaluated by a telephone call, and that this event resulted in a percentage of disability or a decrease in review cases, either on their own or on their own initiative, in a 15.62% of the files. We're not just talking about numbers, ladies and gentlemen, but about people who are behind names and surnames, with complex circumstances for their daily lives, because on many occasions they have permanent disabilities for their professions, so they can't work. And the fact is, if you reduce the percentage of disability, you can charge not only a decrease in rights but a decrease in income, economic benefits. [[Murmurs.]] In order to humanize data, it is necessary to simplify the context, so today I come up with an example of the many who exist in this sense. A woman I personally met -- she's a young woman, she was born on January 15, 1987 -- she's diagnosed with Usher's syndrome, one of the leading genetic disorders that cause deafness, which currently has no cure. This Galician has recognized a permanent disability since the end of 2019 with a resolution of Social Security dependent on the ministry. Similarly, the Galician Board-dependent guidance assessment team resolved in 2017 a 53% degree of disability for it. And by means of a telephone review, this year under it, that same orientation assessment team depending on the Galician Union, at 39%. It has names and surnames and a life forward, and it is part of that 37% of Galicians and Greeks who had to be evaluated telematically during 2020 and which at this time 2021 remain without the Government of Galicia rectifies. How is it possible to come to take something, be able to make meetings of non-community, go to the gym, go to the cinema and not be able to receive recognition of degree of disability in a face-to-face manner? Ladies and gentlemen, what is the impediment, what is the reason? [[Applause]] The guidance assessment teams are made up of multidisciplinary teams with professionals from whom we have no doubt of their great professionalism, as it is obvious that the guidelines comply with political criteria. That's why we are here today, from the Socialist Party, to this House, to urge the Government of Greece to immediately assess persons with disabilities or dependency in a face-to-face manner and with all the guarantees that they can evaluate people's capabilities in relation to the basic activities of daily life, in the fairest way possible and taking into account that what is at stake is the rights and benefits of these people in many cases. The Greek Government must resume to 100 % the face-to-face of the valuations, except exceptions, and we also ask them to review those files of initiation and even those of part- and part-office revisions that have reduced the percentage of degree under criteria of telematic valuations. Please review these files and resolutions. It doesn't make sense to make normal life within the restrictions, to go to a restaurant, cinema, gymnasium, theater, and not get an assessment that will condition the rights of people with disabilities in a face-to-face manner. Why don't you gentlemen? What's the real reason? Stop this injustice and optimize valuations. Where's the little sentinel, ladies? These people play a lot, so we ask them to accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u61	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Today morning, reference was made to the fact that even today one year and one month of the alarm status statement, which we've been trying to combat the biggest health crisis and a global pandemic, which is probably one of the greatest challenges not only in terms of health but of the social and economic aspects of recent history, of course, but of the last century in our country. And indeed, Mrs Ortega said in her speech that, progressively, since the process of defining began, with many limitations, with many restrictions, with goings and lives in the limitations in people's movements, it has gradually been recovering the presence activity in many areas. He was referring to Mrs. Ortega's possibility, with many, many restrictions and limitations, of course, to go to the bar, to go to the gym. I was bringing a more specific and even more similar example -- if we can say so -- that ratings -- saving distances -- than team ratings to determine the degree of disability. It was gradually recuperated, after the psychotechnical revisions were suspended, for example, to renew the driver's license or to issue that driver's license for the first time. It seems to us too, since the BNG, that there's actually no justification for a year and a month after it's started, legally or formally, everything that has to do with the Covid-19 pandemic, those evaluations that EVOs do to determine the degree of disability of a person if they do, in a percentage, 30, 40 percent, if they do it on the phone. Because, as Mrs Ortega pointed out, it is very difficult, when not directly impossible, to determine the level of ability that a person can have to develop his daily life when he has a deaf or blind, for example, to be able to evaluate, to make that assessment of which is the ability to develop his daily life autonomously through a telephone call. That's why, as Mrs Ortega also said, we agreed on the importance, in addition to those assessments, and that this assessment is as correct as possible, because it will determine the degree of disability and with it the rights or the possibility of access of those persons with disabilities to assistance or services, I insist, to those who have the right, as it collects the Vigilant legislation. Since the BNG, what we have done with the amendment we tabled, which is an amendment to change and another amendment to add, what we intend to do is to increase, enrich and update, if Mrs Ortega allows me, as far as possible, the decisive part of this initiative, which, as she herself pointed out, was debated not long ago or just a few fifteen days ago, I suppose, a little more, as much, in committee 5th, in the Committee on Health. We have introduced, since the BNG, the amendment to the amendment is precisely the part which refers to providing to the House the data of those assessments made in a non-presental or telematical manner and to the reductions in the degrees of disability that could be produced in 2020, as it itself indicated and provided the data. What seems to us to be important, interesting, is that a report is being sent to this House to have a broad vision, a general vision of the degree of disability assessments that have developed in the last year, matching this pandemic of the vault-19, to be able to determine which procedure actually followed in each of them and whether it was present or not. But also that waiting time had these people to be able to access the rating team and be rated and also that waiting time to be able to see their rights and all the services or benefits linked to it, in addition to the data being given to Parliament in Galicia as well as the waiting list that there may be provinces to access those rating and guidance teams. And we also add, in that sense, that the Galician Union strengthens, wherever necessary, those assessment and guidance teams, precisely, to comply with what the legislation has to do with the legal deadlines established to access both the valuation and the recognition of the rights attached to it. They know that the legislation currently in force in the Spanish state as a whole sets a period of three months, 180 days, as a maximum waiting time, to access an assessment, and the fact is that in many cases in our country it is not being met, neither in disability assessments nor in dependency assessments. We, since the BNG, have recognized that in recent times an effort has been made to reduce those waiting lists, which have been much bigger in the past, not many years ago, have not been significantly reduced, but we are still very far from the deadlines that determine the law of dependence on both dependency and disability assessments. Of course, we are far from meeting the legally established deadlines to ensure access to resources that they need, and above all what people with disabilities or people with a degree of dependence, whatever the law establishes. I brought the data from the last report of the social services offices and agencies, of the state as a whole, for the year 2020. In Galicia, what this report from the Association of Social Services Directorates and Powers is that ratings linked to the unit were reduced by 4%, which was estimated at 3,243 people less in our country for the same period in 2019. Obviously, it's a pandemic year, a total year marked and absolutely by the coward-19, but this is a reality to put today's brake and solution. We can't keep feeding those waiting lists. Teams and services will need to be strengthened so that this valuation reduction is corrected, and there are also 2,625 less people with recognized rights linked to the dependency law that in 2019, 4,923 pending, in limbo, as this association says, pending, waiting for access to the rights that have been recognised by law. A list of expectations that neither is outside nor is there the pandemic situation that we have been living in the last few years, and the report itself recognizes that 21.8% of the people who have left the waiting lists in our country, linked to the dependency, have done so for the death, because of the pandemic of the coward-19. One more record that puts us in front of the seals is the most dramatic and most terrible face, in human terms, of everything we've been living this year and a month in our country, and in the whole planet. It seems to us that it is perfectly assumed by the group that proposes this initiative to accept the amendment, we try to update it, I say, and enrich it also to try to have a larger picture, together. We agree that we have to regain this face-to-faceness in evaluations, that, just as we are going to the psychotechnical with all guarantees in order to renew our driving license or in order to access that traffic licence, we can do it too and we must do it in people with disabilities so that they are assessed, that there is no justification, that by putting more resources we can perfectly guarantee all health control measures and at the same time ensure that people with disabilities in our country can be valued, recognized and access rights legally recognised, but also not only in health matters, but that they will actually be valued as they deserve and therefore access in time and form resources and assistance, income, benefits or other services to which they have rights. For our part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u63	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Ortega, I have to tell you that I was surprised at your explanatory statement. I have also been listening 15 days ago to the Director General of Sociosanitary Care to expose the disaggregated data of the disability assessment files of the years 2019-2020-2021 and explain the roadmap of the assessment and guidance teams to achieve the full presence of citizens in the processing of these procedures based on health developments. Look, you gave here today some data, the data that you were most interested in, that you told you the other day or that you gave you with complete transparency and rigour the other day the director general answering the question posed by the Socialist Party. In no case did he give all the data, Mrs. Ortega. So I have to tell you that it's at least surprising that you use the data that suits you in this full room. Just like I'm surprised at the amendment presented by the Galician Nationalist Block. I don't know if you're going to accept it, Mrs Ortega, I just saw you now negotiating there. You'll see, and I'll tell you with total affection. A few months ago they relived, 23 years later, even though with another Knight, the historical collapse of the Galician Nationalist Block of the year 97. I don't know if they're already recovered from fear, and perhaps now they're also going to allow the Galician Nationalist Block to totally distort their initiatives. You will know, but the Greeks and the Greeks have memory and, seeing their positions in recent times, perhaps within three years in this House, instead of three political groups, we're left in two. In Galicia, during this year of pandemic, we have been pioneers in a lot of things: in conducting diagnostic tests from the car, in saliva tests, in the launching of the passenger register, in collaborating with the pharmacy offices, and we could go on. But we haven't been pioneers, Mrs Ortega, in the operation of the assessment and guidance teams, and I have to admit it. Humbly, we did exactly the same thing that other autonomous communities did, such as Castile-A Mancha, Mrs Ortega, where she governs her party, which incorporates the telematic evaluation to speed up the procedures of persons with disabilities. Or what they did to state entities like the INSS, who also processed tele and telephone services. And we did it, Mrs Ortega, to benefit citizens, to agitate, to protect their rights to benefits and preserve their health. [[Applause]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are being recriminalized, to the German Government, for a treatment that is being generally done in all administrations, always to the benefit of the health and safety of citizens. They should be more consistent in their discussions. Look, especially because you know that when a person asks for an assessment of the degree of disability, they have been, they will continue to be, Mrs Ortega, an indispensable requirement for medical reports. Reports that believe your illness, reports that believe your functional limitations and that prevent you, to value, the possibility of developing your professional activity or the basic activities of your daily life. Look, a year ago, on March 13th, the German Government declared the health emergency, a day after the Government of Spain, the state of alarm. The exceptionalness of the situation, Mrs Ortega, and the state legislation that has been adopted led to the suspension of the present citations programmed for the recognition of the degree of disability and to contemplate telephone and telematic appointments as a way to expand the information present in the dossier, so that, whenever and when Mrs Ortega, you do not turn it around, the degree of disability could be resolved without a need for a face-to-face evaluation. What was pursued and what benefits did we get? We've been able to speed up assessments and avoid unnecessary displacements of the most vulnerable people so as not to subject them, Mrs Ortega, to a greater risk. Because look, Mrs Ortega, the appreciation of disability is very important and gives fair rights, you said it, and I think that we all agree on this, but don't forget that the priority these months have been and remains the health protection of the entire Greek citizenship. Save lives, Mrs Ortega. In Galicia we didn't give a life for loss and the data are there. Despite being one of the communities with the highest population aging rate, Galicia came out of the third wave with the lowest death rate on the peninsula. But in Galicia, and that certainly did not happen in other territories, once the state of alarm, on June 2nd, gradually resumed the degrees of disability and the face-to-face citation in the cases that were necessary. Because in June, Mrs Ortega, we had not yet won the virus, contrary to what Mr Sánchez said in the Congress of Deputies, who had to dissipate shortly afterwards, and on that line, in the anticipation and prevention line that during the pandemic is, has been following, is following the Government of Greece, the EVOs resolved to determine the degree of disability of the people and avoided, when possible, that face-to-face citation. And do you know what the target was? I repeat, I insist, to preserve the health of the collective of people with disabilities. And in those cases -- the least, by the way -- when it's not possible to determine that degree with the information working on the file, there's no doubt that a face-to-face evaluation has occurred. Mrs. Ortega, do you really believe that a management technician is issuing and signing a dictation when he does not have the tools, when he does not have the reports or when he does not have the data needed to do so? Really, Mrs Ortega, do you think a technician, if he needs to make a face-to-face assessment, won't he? Look, do you guys think a technician really is going to solve a file under a political mandate, like you said here? I mean, not acting on technical criteria? Look, what has to be very clear, ladies and gentlemen, is the professionalism of multidisciplinary teams. Mrs. Ortega, you, in your intervention, first handed them a hand in the back, but then you said they would solve, rather than on the basis of technical criteria, on the basis of political criteria. As I said at the beginning, strictly and with complete transparency, the Director General a few days ago gave him the data on disability assessments; all the data, Mrs Ortega. And I don't have any inconvenience in facilitating them again today and every time you need to have them all, not just those you later bring here to this plenary room. What I'm asking you is that you point if you need to. See, the improved review files that reached a lower percentage of disability after their review in 2019 were 2,231; and in 2020, Mrs. Ortega, 1,562. In percentage terms, in 2019, 17 % of the revised; and in 2020, 15,6 %. This is the data. By 2020, there have been fewer people who have seen their percentage of disability reduced after the review, without which that means anything else, Mrs Ortega, as much as you involve it and try to divert it. Because the fact that a degree of disability suffers increases or decreases is due to its provisionality. There are degrees that definitely turn around and other degrees that do so provisionally and are subject to periodic review. Precisely, this review serves to see the evolution of the user and to provide reports that believe them or their worsening or improvement in their situation. Mrs. Ortega, I know you know what we're talking about. And you know perfectly well that the fact that you change that degree in these cases is not influenced in any case by the face or not assessment, but by the evolution of the disability of the affected person. There's no trap or card, look, nor is it true they're not doing face-to-face ratings, nor the exceptionality in attention I assumed less rights for citizens, nor has there ever been a decline in quality of attention. No matter how persistent you are, there is no kind of prejudice to any Greek citizen who presents a disability. If an error has occurred in any rating, the Administration has tools to override it. And with regard to the second point, which you suggest is that the present assessments are resumed, I told you, the presence was only suspended between March and May 2020, and Galicia never left, and you said if it had been done a while ago. What is true is that it has been reduced because of the pandemic, because I told you before, the first is to preserve the health of all the citizens of Greece. And I finish by thanking them for bringing this initiative, Mrs. Ortega, to bring it to this plenary, because it gave me the opportunity to explain what is being done. What is being done right, Mrs. Ortega, and reaffirming the commitment of the Greek Government to persons with disabilities. Look, the reinforcement of evaluation teams in the different areas of Greece is a reality since 2019, and by 2020 they have been strengthened again and you are aware of that reinforcement. See, in addition, in the budgets this year -- which I know you don't like to hear, but these are the highest budgets in Galicia's history -- disability care funds have increased by 10% over 2020; 10%, ladies and gentlemen, over the past year. Today we have EUR 115 million to consolidate Galicia's opportunities, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 77% more than you were investing together in 2009. And I'm done. In case they haven't seen it yet, five days ago the board of directors gave green light to the agreements with disability care agencies: 8 million euros for the attention of more than 50,000 people with disabilities in our country. In short, what I've been telling you for a while, the work of the entire Government of the Union, because it's not just the Social Policy Council, the whole Government is involved. Because disability is transversal to all councils and it's consolidating a much more inclusive Galicia and much more just for everyone. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez López. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u65	Thank you, President. Now I would say my dear companion, Isaura, who knows very well what she is talking about in this sense, that it is not what suits the Socialist Party, nor me personally, but what suits people with disabilities, who have the right to a dignified and with full rights. [[Applause]] Let me make it clear, Your Honor, representative of the People's Party, because you spoke a lot but you didn't answer me. Are they going to resume their presence immediately in the ratings with disabilities, yes or no? They're going to check the files they've lowered their grade for a telematic evaluation, yes or no? That's the point. He talked about a lot of things here but he didn't really say what interests citizenship right now, which is, under these circumstances, concerned. This is what the citizen is interested in right now, who is awaiting this disability resolution or who has even been downgraded, by means of a telematic resolution, by a disability. He talked about many things, once again he assumed the electoral results -- perfect -- and I remind him how, for example... yes, yes, yes, he said that, to see, if they were in third power, etc., and they're always with that bullying. And look, good sportsmen have a fundamental question that never fails, that is, when they win a game or in sports, they never rejoice in the rival, they never brag about the rival of those issues. We must be humble, Your Honor, the prepotency leads nowhere. [[Applause]] We must be humble. [[Applause]] And once again, with that game of diverting political decisions under technical professionals... let's see, I repeat -- I said it and I don't know if you've heard me, you have to be careful when the fellows talk -- I repeat it in case you haven't listened to it, professionals do their job well. Technicians do their work perfectly and so we recognize them, but they are under their orders, the orders of the People's Party Government, and they have to listen to and swallow many complaints and injustices about the irresponsible decisions they are taking their Government in this matter, Your Honor of the People's Party. That's the point. [[Applause]] The general manager provided the data required by our group and facilitated the data that I transmitted here myself. I don't know what you've been talking about, what you're saying and what you're not saying, exactly, they say the data, textually... I don't know if you've been on that commission, you have to be careful next time to take good note. I took note and so did I. I transmitted the data as the director. That, by the way, I have to thank the Director General for the data, and, actually, it's a paradox that I have to thank, being my rightful representative of the Greek citizenship, having to thank this data because I'm not used to it, I have to say that. Because it is a systematic refusal of the German Government to provide the information to which it is obliged under the law itself, under the requirement of any Member or Member, who we are legitimate representatives of citizenship. But this is part of the dangerous loop game that's been practicing the German Government for over 12 years. And I do a similar thing because information conditions our lives, like when, for example, we can make the investment of our lives. For example, a person who wants to access a real estate and has to make the investment of his life and has to access a mortgage or seek funding, because the level of knowledge that that person has on the subject will make the best decision. But in the absence of knowledge in the subject matter, the best salesman will win the customer; and there are two types of sellers or traders, those that offer all the information to their customers and a good product -- including the small letter -- and they're worth their own charisma, and so the customer accesses that investment, that mortgage. And then there's the commercials that take over the customer unduly omiting the data and the small letter that they don't care about. As a citizen's representative, I have requested in writing, orally, in plenary and committee -- and in particular by Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure -- the data of contagion and death by cod in the residences of the largest broken-down center; and I have not received a reply, Your Honor, of the People's Party, being the citizenship I have the honour to represent a genuine omission of their duty as Government. [[Applause]] That's the same thing -- going back to the simile -- that commercial which improperly appropriates the client by omitting the small letter; that's what you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party want to do, to appropriate the confidence of citizenship by omiting data to citizenship, data that we are claiming as legitimate representatives of citizenship. So I hope to get that data after many months since last year we've been asking for it. But, in addition to the omission, Galicia is also going through data manipulation, because the Social Policy Advisor and also the President of Galicia said in this House that senior residences were free of charge in 99% months ago, when that data was manipulated and cooked by adding disability centres, which were not only infected. [[Applause]] And that, by the way, it felt very bad to the disability collective in this sense that they included them; that data cooked so that it seemed that fewer cases existed in the homes of older people. Look at these issues and have responsibility! We look forward to the positive vote of the groups that represent Greek citizenship in this House, considering that requesting face-to-face disability assessments is the most logical and just at this moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u67	We wait for the turn of the People's Party, since it would be hard to explain to the citizen whether or not to something so logical. So, for example, it happened not to elaborate, by the PP, evacuations of all positive residences covered months ago. They also said not to an unwanted loneliness plan with a specific observatory. They also said that not to a protocol of banking entities for older people with difficulties in adapting to banking digitality. I hope they're rectified, and right now they're not saying no to something so fair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u68	About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u69	I have to talk to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u70	Is a transaction pending?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u72	Okay. Perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u74	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece on the proposal for the abolition of the patents of the products in the fight against cod-19 and the acquisition of vaccines that overcome the precondition health controls
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u75	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesman and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal: Amendment to amend paragraph 1 of the non-law proposal, which will be drafted with the following content:"1. Support the measures geared towards international social equity in access to vaccines through:a)A contribution of EUR 75 million from Galicia to the fund that the Government of Spain has for the purchase of vaccines for states with less resources.b)Support for the most ambitious measures that the Government of Spain defends within the EU on Intellectual Property Rights in the fight against COVID, in order to ensure equal access in the international context in the fight against pandemic."Additional amendment must be added in paragraph 2 of the resolution to the following content: "Between: "...sanitary..." and "...and that..." add: "from the European Medicines Agency".)]] To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u76	Good morning. BNG brings here today an initiative that proposes extravagance, and it's that everyone has access to goods, medicines, vaccines to be able to fight against cowardice. A question, really, an occurrence. Since the beginning of the pandemic caused by coward 19 more than a year ago, the search for treatment for patients or vaccines has been an urgent necessity. That in less than a year we have vaccines to immunize the population is the result of an effort, but not only of pharmaceuticals but of an unprecedented collective effort. It is the result of strong public investments directly or indirectly, that some sources account for more than 25,000 million euros of direct public resources, funding with public money for the advance purchase of doses, funding for research in technology, drugs and vaccines, the effort to recruit thousands of people for clinical trials, to reduce the procedures for the approval of medicines and vaccines, which in other conditions would take years to happen. So a collective effort that reduces, and very much, the risk of pharmaceuticals, which have millions of benefits. Own statements by pharmacists: Pfizer, for example, plans to generate benefits in 2021 of 12,460 million euros, and considers that it is increasingly likely that the flow of income through the covid-19 vaccine is lasting, due to the need to regularly vaccinate, to maintain high levels of immunization, and the threat of emerging strains. Moderna also reported that it plans to bill more than 15,000 million euros in 2021 for the sale of roads. Pharmaceuticals that set the dose price according to their interests. Thus, we see how Pfizer puts a price of 33 euros, Modern of 50 euros, AstraZeneca of 6 euros. This is variable, because the price is also depending on who they sell it to. So all that collective effort can't be put to the service of the pharmaceutical business, but we have to guarantee the full capacity of potential manufacture, make the greatest effort to multiply the production of doses. The important thing is to have vaccines, of course, but not just because we have to ensure that these vaccines have accessibility and equity in distribution. And in that sense, the removal of patents here today by BNG is fundamental to ensuring universal accessibility. The current production capacity of vaccines only covers a minimum of the vaccination needs. If we don't speed up their production, their distribution and administration, it'll take years to reach group immunization worldwide, and therefore it won't be possible to leave the virus behind. The pandemic of covid-19 requires exceptional measures to respond to this health emergency, and of course at BNG we are very clear that the law of the market, supply and demand cannot be determined by how many vaccines are produced, how and how they are distributed. So we have two options: vaccines all over the world or you know who you can, and of course, BNG joins vaccines all over the world, we point to vaccines all over the world in a very clear way. And that's why we join the existing initiative at the international level, an initiative that demands to support the exemption of intellectual property rights, related to trade, for drugs, vaccines, diagnostic tests, technologies, related to covid-19 while the pandemic lasts, and until it achieves global group immunity. And it's not an occurrence of the BNG but it's a proposal led by South Africa and India, presented in the World Trade Organization, which is supported by more than 100 countries of the 164 that form the World Trade Organization, by over 400 social or ethnic organizations, trade unions, and by the World Trade Organization, that is, it's a majority proposal. [[Applause]] It has a small problem: that it is the majority of those who have the least, because this majority proposal opposes? They have the most: the European Union, the United States, Australia, Japan, for example. I mean, it's not about whether this initiative is fair but who has the power to put their conditions in place, and the European Union is favoring the "salves whoever can", making a whole series of decisions that, rather than favoring that as soon as possible people count on the means to be able to cope with the virus and immunize themselves, what seems to be responding to geopolitical interests far away from the needs and health of the population. The Spanish State shared the decision to centralize in the European Union the whole issue of the purchase of vaccines and is therefore complicit in all the action of the European Union, which, of course, in the BNG we qualify as scandalous, negligent, and carried out with total obscurantism. Hide the specific conditions of contracts paid with public funds with pharmaceuticals. It was impossible to know what the small letter of these contracts is. Inability to require multinationals to comply with the agreements signed and, in a very important part, paid. There was no concern about following production processes, checking whether they were working, whether the ability to produce in pharmaceuticals, and on the contrary it seems that they sat there waiting for the vaccines to arrive, letting the pharmaceuticals themselves be managing in their own air. There was no reaction, only a warm reaction when it was seen that the dose agreements that had to come up were not being carried out according to the agreement. Those breaches continue to be maintained today, without any action being taken beyond statements to the media. Of course, it is surprising that, when what is at stake is the health and life of millions of people, there was no proactive position, as I said, of checking the facilities of companies, to make sure that the number of doses needed could be produced. Nor is it understandable that only three countries in the European Union have been producing, that no action has been taken to ensure the highest level of production, that companies with the ability to do so, to see what they could do, and to make the most of that capacity. We have an example in Galicia: the Cendal biopharmaceutical, located in the Porriño, has the ability to produce active substances of human vaccines, which is somewhat scarce, or there are companies that produce vaccines for animals that can be converted, but none of that effort is made because the interest of pharmaceuticals is above the general interest. And to this we have to add the refusal to acquire, axillize, vaccines that are not NATO territory, in a clear example of what interests they defend. We can talk about the Russian vaccine, verified as high efficiency, or Chinese or other, that the European Union does not want to negotiate with them, and therefore does not want to increase the number of doses that can reach the population. These are just a few examples, and therefore the initiative presented by the BNG also calls for the non-restriction of any vaccine that has passed the mandatory health controls and therefore for all those who have approved the procurement processes to be incorporated. Of course, at the BNG we are very clear that public administrations have an obligation to take responsibility for the health of their population, and not to outsource that obligation and leave it in the hands of pharmaceuticals. Of course, it seems shocking to us the opacity with which the European Union manages all these issues, and the hypocrisy of, on the one hand, seems to be outraged by the failure to comply with pharmaceuticals, but on the other hand, to do absolutely nothing to solve it. That, however, is against the European Union, the countries of the European Union, including the Spanish State, for the liberalisation of patents, and hence the increase in their production and the democratization of access to them. We, of course, have very clear that, instead of being let down, what we have to do is to act, because in front of a pandemic worldwide it is necessary to ensure that everyone has access to medical products, protection, medicines, existing vaccines, and save as many lives as possible. That has to be the objective, and it's the occupation and concern of the Galician Nationalist Block, because what had to be an absolute health priority has to become a pure economic transaction, it has to become a cost-benefit issue and not to dominate in a clear, nesting and transparent manner the general interest, the interest of most of the population in accessing vaccines as early as possible in order to end the pandemic and, therefore, in order to be able as soon as possible to recover the social and economic situation that we so much need. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u78	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. If I may allow Mrs. Prado, I'll devote a second to something that has nothing to do with the initiative. Yesterday -- sorry, this morning -- Mr. Feijóo said that he was proud of the vaccination certificate, that we are going to be the first, in this matter of being the first ever, for not getting into much debate, eh! March 1st, Andalusia, vaccination certificate. February, Castile and Lion, vaccination certificate. But in case you don't believe the papers, Feijóo said that we would be the first, or you wouldn't find out or find out and you're a compulsive liar. There's a vaccination certificate from Castela and León on February 12th. [[Applause]] It's just that it's so desperate for someone who believes in institutions to see a president lie more easily than he breathes, which is spectacular. What happens is that then, in addition, as a mind and we have to applaud him, because some will even believe he tells the truth. Vaccinal certificate of Castile and Lion of February 12th, and today he said here we were the first. Anyway, we're the first, except for something, that said. Finally, we are going to the debate, which is very interesting. [[Applause]] Well, what the BNG is proposing today, which is an initiative, as Mrs Prado has said, which has to do with a clear and notorious claim, and which is a deep debate. If you don't mind, I'll keep talking about the initiative, the other one has become clear that Feijóo is a liar. With regard to vaccination and the release of patents, we believe that there are two things on this initiative that obviously have to do with their relationship and that they have to do with the validation and liberalization of patents. We present some amendment that has to do with our opposition nuance. On validation, we argue that the scientific criterion that vaccines should validate in Europe, at least, is EMA, will be FNA in the United States, but in Europe it is the European Medicines Agency. Mrs Prado said the Russian or Chinese vaccine is validated. I don't have to discuss the Russian or Chinese health authorities, I don't have the ability to know if their validation is sufficient, but it's not like that in the European Medicines Agency. The Russian vaccine is still in review, and the Chinese, as much as they were asked, I think they haven't brought any data for it yet. So we in the amendment, although we understand that BNG was going around, we specified that validation is by the European Medicines Agency. From there we don't go in, we don't share the speech that there are NATO and not NATO vaccines, we don't understand. If they're validated by science, yes, if they're not validated by science, no. That's our criterion, and we expect it to be shared. On the liberalisation of patents, on this issue, we believe that it has to do with two main issues. In the first place, the ultimate objective is that all organizations, governments and groups that defend them... we understand that the goal is to vaccinate more, develop more vaccines, distribute more and distribute better, and guarantee equity. There's no one to put on that target. If we don't get all vaccinated in this world, we won't solve the problem. There's no other way. This is one of the things that came to my mind when I heard those delusions of the obligation to vaccinate. See if we're going to force everyone to vaccinate in Galicia, but as the others don't force them to vaccinate, we can't let anyone in, it won't be. Well, we'll be the first to do Galician vaccination certificate, even if the rest of us do it before. I mean, take localist measures, in this case, because we don't share it. So this objective is absolutely laudable, fully shared, and there is no discussion, and we believe that this is clearly what this initiative is about today's BNG and which, as you say, starts several countries. About the mechanism. We believe it's a perfectly legal mechanism, it's collected in the Marrakech agreements of the International Trade Organization, in the vaccine agreements itself, in the general agreements of EMA with the companies you sign with. It's legal, there are clauses that allow it, and so there's a way to do it. We believe that we must also go to the rigor of the matter, to be able to do it right. [[Murmurs.]] And why would we consider this? Because being legally viable doesn't mean it's as easy as getting in front of a door and "exhale"; that's not the mechanism, which is not what we understand is putting the BNG. There are some questions in favour: if 25,000 million euros are calculated of public money invested in vaccines, a fairly powerful reason for defense states of public interest to have some criterion about how things are doing and how they should be done in a space, in addition to what we need to take into account many variables, or at least as many as possible. And there are a hundred governments, or something more than a hundred governments, a hundred governments, who propose it, initiated by South Africa and India, as Mrs Prado has said. What we also see is that there are issues against it, because we believe it is a danger that we propose in this debate in terms of good or bad. I have my impression for myself of how pharmaceuticals work and my concept of their vision of collective ethics and common good. And I'm sure it's shared by many people, and not the other way around, but I think it's reasonable, I don't like how it works, but that doesn't invalidate them, I don't have the ability to delimit. So we believe that we have to go to a matter of substance to be rigorous in this matter because there are questions against it. First, it's a slow process. If the goal is to vaccinate and vaccinate quickly -- safely and quickly -- quickly we wouldn't do it, it's a slow process, because pharmacists also have their legal right to resort, to go to court, to defend their right, because we are guaranteed states in a global way. And so it's also in that sense that you have to recognize it, even though it was a debate against each other -- which I think will never be the solution of problems facing you -- but even if I was, I always think that in front of you should have the same assurances as me at least, and in that sense pharmaceuticals would have them as well. It doesn't mean that I personally see them well, another thing is that we want them to withdraw their rights to defend themselves legally, which is already more complicated, not impossible. You have to pay compensation, because the agreements are so signed. We can liberalize patents, but we have to pay compensation, which is inescapable to a state, it would have to be a matter for the collective of states. Could we withdraw the legal way of defending ourselves from the pharmaceuticals and also refuse us to pay their compensation? It's getting more complicated. So the experts say, there is still some possibility that this happens, quite small but still exists; the question then is where to manufacture? Because this debate is not the same as what happened, for example, with another very well known, sadly, like hepatitis C, where that debate existed and the speculation of pharmaceuticals existed but because not all of them had that patent and then we had to liberalize it. And he allowed others who weren't working on it -- because they weren't in time and they didn't get to it -- they could use their ships, their production mechanisms to manufacture. In this case yes, all the pharmaceuticals that have that capacity are working on it, with different ways, but are practically all of them. Some more resources may exist, but actually, for the volume we're working on, in fact, liberalizing the patent wouldn't make us produce faster, we'd produce at the same rate. That's more, who would take the costs? Because, of course, we're in a situation where we liberalize, withdraw his ability to claim it, not pay compensation and assume that they still have to produce and pay the costs. And we're still in an increasingly thinner legal field, which is the so-called compulsory license. Is it viable? It's harder. But we have a problem, what happens if next year -- we don't want it -- the Pakistani variant appears -- sorry for the Pakistani, it's any country -- that we have to investigate whether vaccines are worth it or whether to innovate about them? Who's gonna do it? Because the pharmacists will say: we won't. And we may have our impressions or opinions about their collective ethics, but that's not gonna get us out of the way. So, who investigates afterwards? And who makes after the rest of the vaccines? And that's also a problem. So what do we understand, that this mechanism, which is still viable, should first be an international agreement. And here we come to a question that can be questionable, but the countries that have funded vaccines are providing -- insufficiently from the global world -- so that there is more equitable distribution; but they defend their ability to benefit from their investment because citizenship is also providing their resources. By setting an example -- allow me, I know in the meantime that it's absurd and always using nonsense is a problem that can be decontextualized, please, understand me -- some citizen can say why we're going to pay for vaccines from countries that instead of researching science put money to have a nuclear weapon? North Korea. And it's an ethical debate, too. It would cost me too. Of course, I think about the people of North Korea and I say yes; but if I think about the country, I say, well, it's not that easy either. So we defend through the amendment that we must make a common policy with this, that if this is the solution we agree with, but it has to be common, we are Europeanists. And, therefore, so that EAMA can guarantee it and so that the European Union can liberalize vaccines, we want it as a common policy. Nor would we liberalise it, because we didn't produce it either, because pharmaceutical companies here have the capacity to do so, they went to Portugal because there's an industry advisor here who must make everything less industrial policy. But, in any case, beyond that, as we cannot do a common policy, we cannot solve it. And also because we think it's important -- and there we already put our amendment -- to bring up a solidarity issue, to make it possible for all of us to solve that situation, because that's the way, that those we have most of us put in so that those who have less have as much as we do. Contributing as you have, receiving as needed. But that principle -- Marxist at the end -- it talks about contributing and then it has to be contributed. The question is, are we willing to give? because it will cost money. Are we willing to give it to everyone? We argue that it's viable, but that's the solution. Liberalizing the patent does not change anything, the next day we have to continue to contribute and contribute much to it; and we are in favour of it: the debate is good, but the rigor of the matter is to contribute. If we want to liberalize patents, there are legal channels, but let's be as supportive as it is, because it's very easy to be communist with the money of the others, but let's give. And that's our proposal: let's be ambitious in the joint plans, let's be ambitious in the defense that fairness must be the fundamental principle, because if we don't all leave, nobody comes out, and let's do it through the mechanisms we have. But we don't create a world of good and bad, because it's not true, and because even if we have the worst opinion of what pharmaceuticals are doing, we need someone to produce the solution; and, therefore, we're in a game that's not of zero sum but it's collaborative, even though we don't like the one we have to collaborate with. For another world it will be to discuss whether we should have a public pharmaceutical that makes the vaccines, but since now we don't have it, it's not the possibility that we have before us. Maybe it was a good way to get into that debate on another occasion. I hope I've helped define our position. And we present our amendment with the will that it be understood that it is to build in the same direction and in the same objective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u80	...and through it trying to approve a common idea. Because the goal is fully logical, legitimate, ethical and worthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u81	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, I don't know who lies; of course, President Feijóo doesn't lie. I don't have coverage here on my phone, but if I took a picture of a news story that I just searched on the computer and said, "Policy between the Government of Galicia for the local vaccination certificate Feijóo wants to implement in April," news from April 6. "Kinges Maroto asks the President of the Union to coordinate with Spain and does not announce measures which he cannot implement." "Implementing the purely informative certificate this month would not be binding on mobility." So tell me if there are more autonomous communities that have this vaccination certificate, what's the problem with... [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u84	...Minister Reyes Maroto with Galicia? What's your problem? Why forbid Mr. Feijó to make the vaccination certificate? [[Applause]] We don't understand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u85	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u86	Well, and going to the initiative, which is true that it's very important, we often talk about this pandemic in this Chamber. And you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, the confusion that produced this virus that we knew almost everything from; confusion in all of us and confusion in scientific circles as well, the mechanism of transmission, pathogenicity, the period of incubation... the first wave ended with many deaths and many people who still continue to suffer the consequences of this disease, the patients we know today as long-lost cowardice. The vaccine has arrived and thanks to it in Galicia it is already immunized about 29% of the population, and the most optimistic forecasts would count on it a year ago. It is true that the rate of vaccination is irregular, the good news -- as are the reduction of deaths -- overcome by bad news such as delays in supply, first by Pfizer, by AstraZeneca, and now by Janssen; and complicate the vaccination plans of all European countries. But don't get confused, BNG gentlemen, the problems we're having with the provision of vaccines don't have their origin in which they develop themselves by private initiative, but quite the contrary. This private initiative, in addition to public-private collaborations, enables large-scale projects to be developed on a global scale to obtain vaccines in record time. And it's true that there are vaccines like Moderna that have basically public funding; others, like Pfizer's, come from a mostly private investment and with public backing that is guaranteed by contracts signed with it. And it sent all these resources to accelerate the research process and clinical trials of a vaccine with spectacular results. We met him yesterday with the study in the residences in Catalonia, published by The Lancet magazine: "Spain adheres to the centralized purchase of European vaccines". The Greeks, of course, are well aware of the advantages of centralized purchase, the guarantee of vaccines, the availability of vaccines in sufficient numbers, the most efficient purchasing processes. And we would avoid what happened to the case of the breathers of a Persian market, that each one offered more money to the others. And thanks to this volume of purchase from Europe, competing in that world market of vaccines, we can have them in Spain. And it's true that possibly in the purchasing and trading strategy there were errors in the agreements signed with the companies, and from there come some problems with the supply. What we have to demand is that these authorities fulfill the contracts, but they are also due to the difficulties in producing those millions of doses -- millions of doses, ladies and gentlemen -- in such a short time, in less than a year. What makes no sense is to question the system of industrial property, which allowed us in less than a year to have not one but several vaccines against the coronavirus, in a market process where public projects, private projects and public-private collaborations coincide. The coronovirus health crisis has led to the greatest research effort known to date: more than 1,000 clinical trials, more than 130 medicines, and more than 100 vaccine projects, despite the fact that, by the large number of projects, the pharmaceutical industry has no guarantee of success, as few of the drugs and, at least, vaccines become safe and effective. And this level of risk for a company would be impossible without an innovation system based on intellectual property incentives. This is the same, Mrs. Prado, that what happens with the artistic creation market, with copyright, is the same. Property rights ensure that pharmaceutical companies around the world launch this uncertain career of researching drugs. A career that is very long, has an average of 10 years, and above all a high risk, because almost 10,000 compounds start in basic research -- and you know it -- just one becomes an available drug. A very expensive process, which in the matter of health we don't care about the cost of things. A process that ends with more public control over product safety and which, in addition, contributes to scientific knowledge, because when a company discovers a potential development, patents it and makes it public, it makes it public to the entire scientific community as it has arrived there. The solution that BNG offers is not going that way, it's going to destroy the incentives for research. And we're not surprised that a party that always talks about modernity and R & D+i questions these intellectual property mechanisms. You present an initiative that satisfies the large number of people who don't know the bottom of the problem. If so, who's gonna investigate the next vaccine we're gonna need? Or who will investigate any other medicine of the diseases we have today, from Alhzeimer, for example, and others? The State alone? Are you going to invest 1 million euros in projects that so many -- as we just saw -- are going to be broken? We need to stimulate companies and companies that actually develop a vaccine. We don't have to penalize them, do we? What we cannot see is that we find ourselves in a context of tension between the manufacture of vaccines and the demand for vaccines. And they planted us a dichotomy. On the one hand, poor countries win and pharmaceuticals, which are bad, bad, lose. And it's not true either. Clear patents that are compatible with public research -- we have the case of the Sputnik vaccine and the one that CSIC is investigating right now -- and diminishing the innovation of the private initiative, of course, would not benefit developing countries. These kinds of expropriations would also not diminish the revenues of the multinational pharmaceuticals because they already have the contracts signed. In any case, it exposed the European Union to multi-millionaire demands of these companies. The problem of access to vaccines is not solved by patents, they are related to insufficient production capacity, and experts talk about other possible mechanisms to solve this problem: collaborative contracts, as this would also affect less innovation. Modern -- we knew yesterday -- you signed a business deal with Rovi so that the pharmaceutical company could make the vaccine in Granada, more than 10 million doses. And on this subject we agree with what the Foreign Minister says, in an interview with a German newspaper, who asks him about the need to review the patent system and says, "The problem we now have is not as much patent as productive capacity, and that is not resolved by raising the patent. This is resolved with a public-private collaboration where public funding helps the private company where there are bottlenecks. This is a little what the European Union has sought to do, and that is why we in Spain have worked with several pharmaceutical laboratories." To tell Mr. Torrado that we are always against the central government! You see, no, that we fully agree with the Foreign Minister. As for what they say on the initiative to negotiate the purchase of vaccines, you just said they were not NATO territory. Mrs. Prado, there is no NATO territory here. What we are is citizens of the European Union and we manage vaccines that exceed health controls, but public health controls. At the moment, the European Medicines Agency has not yet authorized the Russian or Chinese vaccine, but there is no refusal to do so. There's an evaluation process for those who ask for it. In fact, these days we read in a newspaper that Agency technicians are visiting Russia to review clinical trials and make a determination. The Russian Minister of Health informed him. The Porriño de Zendal factory cannot produce the vaccine until that vaccine is authorized and is not safe for us. I believe that we, all the Greeks, agree in that sense. We want safe vaccines. And the Galician Medicine Agency, as we have seen these days with AstraZeneca, is characterized by being extraordinarily scrupulous and cautious in all its decisions on vaccines. Decisions which are known precisely by the European Pharmacovigilance Committee, which works, as in Spain, very well. That's the criterion and not that of NATO territory yes or no. We, of course, believe in the private initiative and freedom of scientific development, and in the responsible and rigorous performance of public authorities in monitoring these processes. We believe in the European Union and how it acts, because it is solidarity. The European Union is one of the main funders of the COVAX mechanism, a global initiative aimed at ensuring fair and equitable access to safe and effective vaccines against curfew-19 in middle and low-income countries, bringing them up to now more than 1.3 billion doses. Galicia, within Spain, and within Europe, is therefore collaborating through the COVAX mechanism and sharing vaccines with countries with lower income. Something we fully agree with. We believe in the European institutions, we believe in the European Union that guarantees free market and freedom of innovative initiative. A European Union which guarantees the safety of vaccines, in a European Union which acts jointly for the Member States and in solidarity for non-member States. It's a wonderful thing that today, thanks to being in the European Union, to buying vaccines and those aids that Europe has given us, we can have all over Spain over the age of 80, the largest of the residences,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u87	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u88	...to all people who are in health homes, with resources, no resources, all of them, vaccinated. And that's what seems to us to be the easiest thing. And that -- and finished, Mr. President -- that kind of open, solidarity society is the society we want to live in. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u90	We're facing a global pandemic that needs global action, because as long as there's no worldwide immunization, we're not going to win the virus battle. So it's not good against bad, but what it's about is, even from a selfish point of view, to vaccinate everyone in order to destroy us from that immunity as well. And I say it because it's issues that, in order to justify the argument, you don't need to reach certain levels of demagogy. There's one thing very clear: the liberalisation of patents for drugs, vaccines, diagnostic tests, technologies related to covid-19... it's necessary, it's possible, it's legal and there's precedents. That's the reality you don't want to hear. What is needed is political will to put it into effect, what is needed is political will for everyone to have access to those benefits. And you have precedents. In 2001, the Doha declaration, within the World Trade Organization, actually allowed the liberalisation of drug patents to combat, at that time, the entire HIV epidemic, AIDS. So, there are precedents, it can be done, what you have to want to do. I have, of course, heard here questions that are not easy, that are very complicated, that must respect market freedom. It turns out that in order to fight against the pandemic, steps have been taken that have led to the elimination of fundamental rights, the confinement of millions of people, the prohibition of freedom of movement, of assembly and so on, and it turns out that the patents cannot be eliminated to multinationals because that is a lot of sin, that is a lot of sin. You can't play there. [[Applause]] You can't play because the pharmaceutical business is ahead, can't vaccines be declared good for public interest? Why can't vaccines be declared good for public interest? What if we make a clear bet for public research? Because I'm really sorry -- well, I'm not sorry, I made it clear, right? -- that the People's Party and the Socialist Party add up to the interests and discourse of multinationals. It's the pharmaceutical industries themselves that say that if patents are now eliminated, who's going to investigate in the future? What would you bet on for public research? No longer being precarious for researchers, putting resources in public research instead of putting billions of euros on private pharmacists who then only benefit from that issue? At least EUR 25,000 million, at least. [[Applause]] Because then there's the direct, the indirect, all the ahead. So make up for the release of patents, but on the basis of the clear justification for the cost of that investigation and those results, because we don't want to go in there for anything. I, of course, we at BNG, are more than just giving them the fish we gave each other the cane to learn how to fish, which is what we're talking about here. Because questions have to be validated by science. What science? Only the science of Eurocentrism and the rich is valid, because the other science is invalid? Because I was saying the honourable Member of the People's Party that EMA was in Russia looking at the characteristics of the Russian vaccine. Why don't you go to the United States and look at the characteristics of the U.S. vaccines before your approval? Why are they all trapped in one direction and not in another? Because, if there's no NATO territory, it certainly looks like a lot. If there isn't, it looks like a lot and I'm done with the tests. [[Murmurs.]] I insist that the proposal brought here today by the BNG not only favours the poor, developing countries, but favours all of us, that we are facing a global pandemic that -- I insist -- while not vaccinated everyone is not going to be safe. And besides, the sooner you get vaccinated, the less risks there are mutations, the more complicated the variants and we have problems and we have to go to other vaccines that immunize us in front of the new variants. This initiative basically means that everyone can produce vaccines, each state, each nation, depending on their abilities or agreements to which they can come. And not the alms that we can give them from the rich countries, because in front of this proposal, endorsed -- I insist -- by 100 countries, 264 of the World Trade Organization, 400 non-governmental organizations, the World Health Organization, that is, all of this support and support this initiative. I know what the positions are, the one in the pharmaceutical industry that, if patents are removed then you see who's investigating, as if there were no more options and as if in this private research there were not always a lot of public resources, or that of the rich countries that propose funds, to allocate equal resources. He was speaking to the deputy of the COVAX project. The goal of the World Health Organization was that in the first 100 days of the year 2021 they began vaccinating all the countries of the world. There are 14 who haven't arrived and many others who just... that is, started in a very witness way. That's the result of that COVAX project, which is, of course, failing enough Why? Because it's giving them the strawberries of what's left and it's not about that. It's not about giving the strawberries, but it's about everybody having access to something so fundamental that it's about being able to fight against a pandemic that is declared a global pandemic. So if we're faced with a global pandemic, we're going to have to act globally to solve it. And, of course, that's not what you're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u92	I therefore regret that PP and the Socialist Party, instead of being on the side of the majority, once again stand aside from the interests of pharmaceuticals. We can't accept the Socialist Party amendment because what I'm proposing is a fund to buy them vaccines, and we're proposing that everyone have access. And then the second part we could accept without any problem, but we're not going to take the vote by points...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u93	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u94	...and I'm afraid you won't accept the whole initiative as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Ms Da Paloma Castro Rey, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the marine-industry-food sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u96	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr. Arangéna Fernández has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. The initiative that we are presenting today has as its object the defense of our coast and the economy of our coast. Yesterday we even know that an internal report by Ence obtained by the press alerting mercury spills to the Pontevedra River coming from an old branch of the Ence itself and warning you of the risk to the health of workers and the general population. While the Board, which seems to know the report, ensures that it is the presence of an element on the ground at a concentration above the reference level and does not have to pose a problem. But the case is that it's not any element, as it seems to suggest, carefree and cheerfully, the Union, but one of the most toxic elements that exists, like mercury. So it would be important for the Board to report urgently on this issue. And I'm talking about this because it's an example of how industrial activity on the coast is not harmless, it generates all kinds of externalities. It can generate serious pollution problems and therefore has to be regulated and orderly and monitored, and also adapted to the effects of climate change, because the Union itself has calculated, at the beginning of this year, the damage that will cause climate change on our coast in the next 20 years. In any case, the proposal we present here today is intended to urge the Galician Union to do several things that we consider to be of the highest priority, given the importance of the coast and sea in Galicia. First of all, consider the food industry to be of a strategic nature and of maximum economic and cultural interest for Galicia. And therefore give you the highest consideration and priority in your current and future policies, including those associated with reconstruction after the pandemic we are currently suffering. Because the president of the Union recently listed seven projects linked to the marine food industry, of which five have some company behind them and two have behind the self-government itself. Seven 354 projects that you say, according to the latest official version they have, when the marine food industry has an importance in our economy far above what these seven projects represent, which is 2% of the total, which gives the idea of the reasoning and scarcity of ideas and support of the Union in the event of betting by the sector. That's right, to mount fuckers and disinformation are always rough, fast and willing. [[Applause]] Secondly, to defend before the Government of Spain and at any instance, including the European Union, this strategic character and peculiarity of the sector and our coast, as well as the need to take account of any particular public policy related to the sea that Galicia presents, and hence to make compatible the preservation of the coast, the environment and the landscape with the maintenance of jobs and activity on the shoreline. Because it's essential that you do so to Junta, but always since the responsibility and institutional loyalty you've completely lost three years ago when the Central Government changed, and Mr. Feijóo decided to embark on a process of genuine political filibuster -- never better said because we're talking about the sea -- that leads you to say in May last year that you couldn't extend the state of alarm because it was almost dictatorial, to say in October that the state of alarm was demolishing and generating alarm -- that I think it's going to happen to the years of political history -- and now that you have to extend the state of alarm. And yet, including the coast, our coast, as I shall report. Thirdly, it defends that any regulatory changes that may affect the sector in particular, in particular any changes in coastal legislation, are made in open and fluctuated dialogue with representative entities, as well as local and autonomous administrations, reaching the highest level of consensus possible. Because we need dialogue as Galicia has the largest coast of Spain and Galicia's coastal economy is the most important in Spain, and it certainly has its peculiarities, which must be taken into account in any modification of coastal legislation. Fourthly, to uphold that the concrete application of the present legislation and any future changes should be made taking into account the importance, strategic character, specificity, singularity and peculiarity of the Greek coast. Because these singularities exist, beginning with the geographic peculiarity of our rivers and their privileged productivity. Fifthly, leaving an economic area as important as the food industry sector out of any partisan confrontation and, therefore, informing, true, transparent and objectively, of all that affects that sector, avoiding doubts that can discourage investment and discourage people and families who depend on the sea in Galicia. Because on March 24, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira, the environmental spokesperson of her group, said in this chamber, nothing more and nothing less, that the Government wants to destroy the coastal industry and leave the coast -- and I quote literally -- "the edge of all activity." And I quote literally also, "by taking over several thousand companies and dozens of thousands of jobs." That's what he said and it's recorded. Several thousand companies and dozens of thousands of jobs, when Mr Feijóo, in May 2020, said that 100 companies and 3,000 jobs were at risk, who lied: Mr Feijóo or you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira? Because Mrs. Díaz Mouteira, in less than a year, says that it's not a hundred companies but several thousand, not a hundred, several thousand, and that it's not 3,000 jobs but dozens of thousands, that is, it multiplies what was already a falsity of origin per cent. [[Applause]] What's more! you think they can say anything here for free, but it's not free, it doesn't matter, because to say these things is complete irresponsibility, total and absolute irresponsibility. That's right, it's recorded, it's all... hemerotheques, recordings... then, of course, or lie to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira or mind Mr. Feijó. In this case they both lie: both what the Board says and what Mrs. Díaz Mouteira says is a genuine irresponsibility. Because if the Government of Galicia says that the Central Government wants to destroy, nothing more and nothing less, it wants to destroy the marine food industry, the normal thing is that the sector believes it is. If you predict the apocalypse of a sector, you cause the apocalypse of that sector, I don't know if you understand. And I don't think that there is, frankly, no civilized country, no minimally civilized country, where the Government of a Territory, in its frenzy, in its war on its political blindness, in its absolute irresponsibility, is willing to say that the Central Administration wants, for some reason, a minister's whim, to carry a whole sector of its economy, for the simple reason that this discourages investment,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u98	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u99	...capital escapes risk and produces all kinds of negative economic effects. And if you say there's a central government that wants to wind up thousands of businesses and dozens of thousands of jobs, the normal thing is that the capital is out of control, but not the central government, of its predictions, which would be an example of self-fulfilled prophecy. Recently, hundreds of companies have been relocated to Portugal. What happens is that in recent years approximately 600 companies have been relocated to Portugal. So it seems that you say it's going to be a hundred more, in this case provoked by a minister who seems to be very intransigent. That's why I ask them to reconsider their attitude, to feel with the ministry to tell you that the future reform of the rules of the back, if it happens, has to have as much consensus as possible. With the utmost attention and openness of mind, the food industry sector must be heard and the specificity of our coast must be taken into account. And there is no better way for the Union than having the backing of this Parliament, which represents the people of Greece, to seek the greatest dialogue and consensus. And that's exactly what we propose here today, which is clear, the commitment of all the political forces of the Galician Parliament to the Galician coast and its economy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Group of the Parliamentary Block of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Yesterday Mr. Arangüena, by the way, in a dissertation on the right to decide from the cradlers in particular and from any people in general -- a dissertation that is already for the study and research of experts in the subject -- said history is to learn. Well, by paraphrasing it to you, I repeat, indeed, that history is to learn, and add, moreover, that history is to tell it all and not by dogs. The story is not about deleting it and making it disappear when we're interested. Such, Mr. Aranguena, as you do in this LNP. The PSOE PNL tells us -- textual -- of the thousands of jobs linked, directly or indirectly, to the marine food industry, and their defense. And your main problems -- those in this sector -- you limit them to changing the 2013 Back Law and its 2014 regulation, and even the 2003 Public Administration Heritage Act. All that legislation that we have just cited, indeed, bears the stamp of the People's Party. But then you tell us that, given the problems caused by this legislation in the Greek industries located on the coast, the Government of the State, in 2019, the PSOE and the United Nations We can, decides -- textual -- to address a new back regulation. And finally you give up this processing, you give up, by the way, tell us also in the LNP that Mr. Arangüena -- it's also textual -- in which the position of the PSdEG was taken very seriously. Congratulations, Mr. Arangüena, because it must be the only one to take into account the position of the PSdeG from Madrid. [[Applause]] And even here comes the story for the Socialist Party, point, here ends the story, in the year 2019 and in its great success that they paid him attention in Madrid not to address a new back-to-back legislation. They want us to see, Mr Aranguena, that nothing else has happened, and that today, April 14, you propose five agreements that we can support, because, among other things, we still claim, indeed, that the situation of the traditional Greek coastal nuclei is changed, which is not of interest in Madrid. But you want to stop the story in 2019. And we, of the five agreements that propose us, want to stop especially in the last one. The latter says -- you have already read it, but to refresh the memory -- : leave an economic area as important as the food industry sector out of any partisan confrontation and therefore inform, true, transparent and objectively, of everything that affects this sector, avoiding doubt that can discourage investment etc. etc etc If, indeed, Mr. Arangüena, they want to inform, true, transparent, objectively, avoiding doubt, they begin by recognizing that history has not ended in 2019, and much less the history of the sea-food industry. That between 2019 and 2021 it has been announced, it has published and approved a bill of climate change, which you delete from the map, which legally places the sea-industry chain at the worst moment in your history, Mr. Aranguena. That between 2019 and 2021 the Government of Madrid has despised -- and now you talk to us about dialogue here -- the contributions of the sector, it has expanded three times the deadline for tabling amendments, right up to the day before its end, despairing the rest of the House's political groups and the sector itself. That between 2019 and 2021 the Socialist Party of Madrid and Galicia have held an absolutely twisty and opaque speech, a speech and a position which, even here, Mr. Arunguena, was rejected by mayors and mayors of the Socialist Party, of their own party. That they approved these mayors and mayors of the Socialist Party in their Town Councils to reject -- so clearly, in their Town Councils -- article 18 of the bill and forward a new proposal to Madrid. That, by the way, that proposal by socialist mayors and mayors ended up in the trash hold of the Ministry of Ecological Transition of Madrid. An absolutely incomprehensible position that even stood against the ruling of the Council of State, which clearly held that articles 18.3 and 18.4 were de facto -- and I read textually -- "an amendment of the Law of Back", and offered doubts against legal security. [[Applause]] From 2019 to 2021, in this confusion ceremony, unfortunately you weren't alone, they counted on the invaluable collaboration of their middle political orange, the People's Party -- Mr. Abalos said so this weekend --. The People's Party that took advantage of -- as it could not be otherwise in them -- that of the river revolted, and even dared to supplant the Board of Directors of Encen in the acremonial defense of this clock bomb in the Pontevedra stream. He even commissioned the production of a video that was, from the beginning to the end, a joke and a burda and talisman manipulation of reality. , a monumental lie. [[Applause]] The People's Party, in the defense of this watch-bomb in the Pontevedra River, even announced that they would claim the competitions on the coast; it is a pity that he only wakes up at this time, when we have to defend the absolutely polluting industries in our rivers! But the People's Party campaign didn't stop there. The same Councillor of the Sea, who, at the plenary session of March 8, joined the bull -- set without any prevention -- launched on the networks by a member of the PP of Pontevedra in Congress, said and reiterated that the BNG had voted in favour of Article 18 in the presentation, when the BNG was neither in the presentation, and we would also present amendments to the deletion of Article 18, which, of course, were not supported by the Socialist Party or by the People's Party. The counselor said textually here that day: "The day they pick me up in a lie I'll present my resignation." It's already taking the sea advisor, isn't it?Oh, my God! It's too late! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr. Orange, from 2019 to 2021, there's a story, which you want to make disappear. And in that history from 2019 to 2021 BNG has always maintained the same position, we have always maintained that article 18 of the Climate Change Act is a blatant modification of the Back Law by the back door. We tabled amendments to the deletion of the article that both rejected, we were not present in the presentation, and in view of the incomprehensible closure of the PSOE and the People's Party's trap campaign, whose objective is what is -- we all know -- we present a compromise. By the way, Mr. Arangüena, a transactional amendment that is clicked on the same one that presented those mayors and mayors in 2020 and that ended up -- as I said earlier --... yes, yes, yes, in the trash can of Mitech. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We presented this transactional amendment... I don't know, Mr. Arunguena, ask the mayor of the island, the mayor of Cambados, the mayors and mayors of Muxia... of Camarinas... [[Mr. Aranguena pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We tabled a compromise and we would like to see you explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks and to the sea industry why the Socialist Party and the People's Party rejected it. Because here everyone defends what they defend and each one is with his book. We said from 2019 to 2021 that back legislation is uniformizing, not just from 2019 to 2021, we said it many years earlier.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u103	And we complain -- I'm going to finish -- that competences, actually -- but we've always claimed it, not now for the defense of Ence -- we claim that competences have to be Welsh. It's over, Mr. President. And now, Mr. Aranguena, you propose -- textually -- "let the sea-industry sector out of political confrontation." Are you serious, Mr. Aranguena?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u105	Are you serious about this? They're proposing "strategic consideration..." -- I'm reading text -- "...and of maximum economic and cultural interest to Galicia the sea-industry sector."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u106	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u107	Are you serious, Mr. Aranguena? I'm done. You said yesterday, in that already unforgettable speech about the right to decide, that experiments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u109	...with gas. Apply the story, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u110	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u111	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mr. Orange, you hide this LNP as a defense of the sea-industry chain, but you come here to attack Ence, and you said it in the first five minutes of your intervention. The Board expressed its willingness to appeal to the Constitutional Court the State's Climate Change Act, which is contained in it, on the Law of Back, is finally passed with the current wording. The appeal is justified by two reports which cover it unconstitutional -- report of the Legal Counsel for the Board and the Advisory Council -- by articles 18.3 and 18.4. We regret that the Central Executive and the Members who voted in favour of it underestimate those dictates. His vote was given after the Minister for the Ecological Transition himself recognized the issues that this parliamentary group and the Galician sector have denounced in recent months. First, that the rule excludes the current regulation of the extraordinary extension of concessions, whereby the 75 years of this extension would count from the initial date of the concession rather than from the request of the extension. Secondly, this goes against what the Law of Back provides for all concessions prior to 2013, leaving them with absolute legal insecurity. That concessions, both those which already have the extraordinary extension granted and those which may still apply for them, will be reduced in their time. And this goes against the literality of the 2013 Back Law and the one marked by both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court. We support the Union's willingness to make use of this text after its final approval -- it still has the Senate's processing -- if it keeps, as I say, its current drafting. Having said this, this PNL that you present today is a hypocritical attempt to save your face and whiten out a cynical PSOE position in front of the sea-industry chain, in front of the most intense sectarian and dogmatic attack you have received in recent years. And yes, I say sectarian and dogmatic in how to legislate; and I say hypocritical and cynical this PNL because these five points you can solve them quickly by making a call and telling your minister and his group in Madrid to withdraw Article 18 of the Climate Change Act. Look, the People's Party in Congress abstained in order to acknowledge that it is necessary to move forward in the fight against climate change, and we do the same in the Parliamentary Group of Galicia as in the Parliamentary Group in Madrid. There they maintain their opposition to the drafting of article 18, and they will continue to defend in the amended Senate that curb this juridical disguise and its impact on the sea-industrial chain. Yesterday, I read in the press to someone affected who still hopes that you will recapitulate in the Senate and that this article may be withdrawn. BNG attacked the People's Party after the prosecution of the law for not supporting its transactional amendment, as Mrs Pérez said here today. But it is that the amendment of BNG was a continuity and makes complete follow-up to the arbitrariness that the Government of Spain plasma in the initial text, because that really is the problem, the arbitrariness that is embedded in the initial text. The amendment submitted by the BNG is vague and technically diffused and wanted to determine the possibility of the continuity of companies with terms as sustainable, linked, related to the chain of sea-industry... but it did not clarify, did not enter the bottom of the matter, did not clarify the duration of the concessions; and it also left out many other public infrastructures, because it is not only those that affect the chain of sea-industry. I mean, a light is also washed in the face. You guys in the Galego Nationalist Block made a joke because they tried to separate Once from the rest of the industries, but they realized that they had kicked and that because they wanted to throw Once out they could load a lot of the Greek economy. I say, you here make a difference between the jobs of Ence, which are the bad jobs, and the good jobs, which are those of the sea-industry chain. But with this law both the PSdEG and the Nationalist Block Galego eliminate all jobs, both one and the other; so I think that this way of legislate is totally against Galicia. So they don't have... even though I was alone, because Mr. Arangüena also got into a story of a difference of numbers, whether it's so many jobs or not so many jobs, that it was one job we'd be here in the People's Party in Galicia to defend him. Look, if the minister says in an interview that you can't make laws to save specific companies, we also say that you can't make laws or amends to attack specific companies, and that's why this matter is. And we were already worried about this law in 2019, and you said we were freaking out. You said it was a campaign of lies, and they said we were just defending Ence, and today we're all worried. Today you present here a non-law proposal to defend the sea-industry chain with five points that are, in addition, to laugh. Look, the Ministry of Ecological Transition leaves this sector at the foot of the horses. Mayors of the PSOE have put forward motions to save the jobs and to save their villages, it is they shut down the marine villages on many occasions with this legislation! It's not understanding anything. You, in your LNP, speak of maximum public protection. We are not against moving forward in the protection of the coast, but if the Galician coast has reached this point today, with a good situation in general, it is partly because of that sustainable incardination that marine-fishing activities, precisely, have come showing over the decades. And to make this law in these terms and to approve that article 18 is to understand nothing. A sailor, the other day in an interview, said fishing and the sea is not a job, it's a way of life, and it really is in many places on the Greek coast. Look, administrations must watch over our coast, which is everyone's, which has great environmental value, but administrations must also ensure that environmental values are respected and also done in agreement and in balance with the social and economic spheres. That's what they don't understand, because they establish an absolute dichotomy and they don't understand it. Look, why does it contribute to the fight against climate change and the rise of the sea level by removing the affected plants from the coast line or by cutting their concessions? If even the affected industries never got to the sea by harming them, nor are they expected to do so, why move them off the coast? If those industries are sustainable and won't have any problems, why move them off the coast? If these industries are not greenhouse gas stations, nor agents, nor climate change correspondents -- which is at the base of the bill -- why move them off the coast? From behind, with an article put on a shoe? This isn't the Mediterranean, this, really, is a reality of a kind of industry that exists in Galicia; and yes, it's true that it's a specific topic. Why do you want to move and close the entire Greek coast? That's what I want and we want you to explain it to us. The arguments based on half-truths are worse than lies, and the question to be asked would be the following: Why did the 2013 Back Law and the 2014 Back Regulation not apply to the rigidity, restriction and radicalism they now find? You were talking here about the minister's whim, you said so. Well, look, maybe your subconscious made you say here what the reality is. The PSOE had already pointed out ways of all forms, because it had already revealed its letters when in 2013 it brought the Law of Back, promoted by the PP, to the Constitutional Court. That, by the way, specifically, was not ahead of the limitation of concessional deadlines. The PSOE did not want such broad deadlines and lost the resource, Mr. Orange; therefore, it does not try to change the speech or convince us of what it is not. Because, look, in addition, the five points of his LNP are full of hypocrisy. At the first point, they call for us to consider the marine food industry strategic and give it priority. It's just that this is to take the hair of this House, to take the hair of this board and to take the hair of this marine Galicia, Mr. Aranguena. Because if it's now 33,000 jobs, 35 % of the sector, a bill of nearly 8,000 million euros, it's for this union's bet and support, and the People's Parliamentary Group's bet and support. [[Applause]] You can... this point you solve with only one action: withdrawing Article 18 from the law. Point 2: "to defend this strategic character before the Government of Spain and the European Union". And that sounds even more insulting to me, because you're asking us to defend ourselves, or you're defending Junta, something that... Bah!, you don't even listen to them then their partners in Europe, the ministry itself. This point 2, do you know how to solve it, too?: withdrawing Article 18 of the law. Point 3 -- that's funny now: "defending any regulatory changes that may affect the sector in particular, in particular any changes in the rules of the coasts." Ask for dialogue, something that the affected didn't find in the ministry, they didn't find that dialogue. Look, there's a solution to this third point, Mr. Orange: withdrawing Article 18 of the Climate Change Act. Point 4 calls for the concrete application of the present legislation and any amendments, taking into account the uniqueness of the Galician coast. It's just that they didn't take it into account at the time of law enforcement, Mr. Aranguena, whatever you did. So this has a solution to this point too, you know what it is?: withdrawing Article 18 of the Climate Change Act. And the last point is, "to leave the sea and food industry out of any partisan confrontation, and to inform, true, transparent and objectively, of everything that affects the sector." Look, the sector reported in 2019, true, transparent and objectively, to the board, to the ministry and to the politicians of this House so that we didn't legislate in those terms, and you did everything the opposite. So you have another solution to this point 5: withdrawing Article 18 from the law. So, Mr. Aranguena, with that action you solve these five points you're asking for. And besides, they're messing up with this law and now they're trying to hide it by asking the Galician Board for a series of shares that have neither feet nor heads. Look, I'm going to finish by saying that the Observatory of the Coastal of the University of Coruña has also manifested its inconformity with article 18, and there's an article by the director of the Observatory at La Voice of Galicia on Monday whose reading I recommend, impartial and non-partisan, Mr. Alangüena. And look, I have to tell you that it was the minister himself who recognized that the purpose of article 18.4 of the future Climate Change Act is to eliminate the extraordinary extension of all concessions on the coast. Who lies, therefore, if the minister himself ends up giving us reason? We defend the sea-industry chain, the coastal villages, the jobs, all!, and our lifestyle, and therefore we do not accept Article 18 of this law. And since this GNP does not change it, we will not support this GNP, Mr Aranguena, full of cynicism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pérez, I'm glad it turns out, as you said, that my reflection on yesterday's right to decide. We'll talk at any time, if you want us to talk more about the right to decide. We talk today about our coast and I do my own words, when he said and spoke of the burda and gossip manipulation of reality that makes the group on my right. Because, in fact, it's ugly and lame. I haven't talked about article 18 of the Climate Change Act today, but I have to tell you what article 18 of the Climate Change Act says is that the limit of concessions is 75 years. If by 1988, date of the Back Law, we add 75 years, give us 2063. Therefore, 2063 is the date set in practice, and by that deadline that establishes previous laws, it confirms it, 2063 is the date when, in theory, they would have to start worrying, according to that article, not according to the rest of the legislation, which is what I'm talking about here. They would, in any case, have to start worrying about our concessions. And Mrs. Pérez says that our mayors have tabled an amendment. Well, as you know, mayors don't present any amendments. So I'd ask you not to manipulate yourself, either, and not to report. Because, I insist, mayors don't have any amendments, and our mayors didn't present any amendments. Instead, you say yes, they have tabled a transactional amendment. Indeed, they presented a transactional amendment proposing to exclude the whole food industry sector from the application of a general law. That, as anyone knows who has studied right first, is totally and frankly contrary to the principle of legality, you cannot establish a law but exceptional for certain groups or people, because that doesn't work that way. From there on, a fine that is very good but which is directly illegal, contrary to the principle of legality. And you say I'm attacking Ence. I'm the only reflection I've ever thought of was that there's a report from the Ence itself that says that a mercury spill is being produced in Pontevedra's creek. If that's why you think I'm attacking the Ence, then what I'm attacking the Ence is me and not you. And the mercury that you seem to be allowing you to spill into Pontevedra's laugh, that doesn't attack anyone, but I'm attacking Ence for saying that Ence has a report that says there's mercury in Pontevedra's stream. Well, and you say you have a report from the board of directors. On 24 March, the Environment Adviser here offered this report to the parliamentary groups, the opposition groups. I asked him specifically, going out the door, to the counsellor, three weeks ago exactly. I am still waiting for that report from the Board of Trustees to be made available to us. If you can do it this afternoon, I won't wait another three weeks. But the curious thing about all this is that, after all those diatrics and all that they say about the Climate Change Act and article 18, the PP abstained in Parliament, they are not even able to vote against when they put frogs and snakes on article 18, and about the Climate Change Act, and then tell us that the hypocrites are us. [[Applause]] In short, this PSdeG initiative demonstrates our commitment to the coast, to the coastal economy and to the marine food industry, which we hope will be extended through its approval to the rest of the parliamentary groups. What we're not going to protect is demagogy and irresponsibility consistent in that for political reasons our coast is unreported from the autonomous administration itself, which should do the opposite. I insist again, I insist again, even though you seem funny, that it is not to be received that on June 10, 2020 the Union says there are 100 companies and 3,000 jobs at risk and on March 24 Mrs. Díaz Mouteira says, not since they are at risk, but that the Government will take thousands of businesses and tens of thousands of businesses ahead. She talks about 100 companies, Mrs Mouteira talks about thousands of companies, and she talks about 3,000 jobs, and Mrs Mouteira talks about dozens of thousands of jobs. You don't care, because you say that with a job you've been at risk... I mean, from that moment on, it doesn't matter what you say, that's absolute irresponsibility and a government can't do that. It's from the banana republic. A ridicule to the intelligence of citizenship, a maximum irresponsibility on the part of a government that would have to create confidence, instead of sowing alarmism in our economy. It's unheard that we have an autonomic government that, instead of putting out fires, is going to burn. As I told you, the only thing that establishes article 18 is a 75-year term that was already in law. If we apply that period from 1988 onwards, the result of that amount is 2063. We'll see where we're all in 2063, even in 2063, companies can re-ask for a new concession. The same applies to all concessions in the marine food industry sector on our coast and in the public maritime-terrestrial domain. So you stop misinformed, do things right, get to work and if you want to approve this proposal, and prove that you have something more than hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Állado Filgueira and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the Royal Decree Law 5/2021 of 12 March, of extraordinary measures to support business solvency in response to the pandemic of covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u115	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of Mr. Daniel Pérez López, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presents the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal:Additional amendmentAdd a new paragraph to the resolution with the following text:"The German Parliament urges the Galician Council to urgently develop, adopt and implement a Plan of Support for the Pemes and Autonomouss of Galicia which, together with new direct aids, includes:a. A set of measures or actions aimed at reducing the costs of operating the activity (energy, telecommunications, water, etc.).b. Mediation with the owners of the real estate where Pemes or autonomouss perform their activity aimed at reducing income relative to the times in which they exist or there were restrictions on activity, contemplating a possible partial assumption by the Galician Union of the amount of the previous income.c. The conduct of management directed at the termination of the interest due for the period during which the exercise of economic activity was limited, as well as the application of a period of deficiency for the payment of loans and credits linked to the commercial activity, as well as the paralysis of any legal action for the demands thereof."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u116	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. One year and a month, today it takes exactly one year and one month from the entry into force of the first state of alarm which began to manage the pandemic of the cave by the Government of Spain. A year and a month has been exactly waiting for the companies and professionals of this country for the support of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. And now that the Central Government's response finally arrives, a year and a month later, we find ourselves with an absolutely insufficient plan, infra-dominated and that does not benefit some of the sectors most affected by this health crisis, such as the fisheries sector, bookstores, dealers, workshops, hairdressing halls, aesthetic halls, service stations and a long and so forth. And if this were enough, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, once again, takes the opportunity to discriminate, as it could not be otherwise, with an unfair distribution of these funds, which means and represents a loss of 110 million euros that would correspond to Galicia and that the Government of Spain is interested in it. Of course this is nothing new, Galicia is always prejudiced in the territorial distributions of the Government of Spain, the Socialist Government. Galicia lost in the distribution of the territorialized funds of the general budgets of the State for this year, Galicia lost in the distribution of the copper funds, Galicia lost in the distribution of the European RECT-EU funds, Galicia lost in the first allocations of vaccines, and Galicia now lost in the distribution of these aids for self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises. All these distributions were made with different criteria but which, incidentally, always, always, absolutely always, harmed Galicia. Our community would receive nearly 700 million euros more than the common criteria of the system of self-financing of the last allocations made by the Socialist Government, not 280 million more, as Mrs. Ana Pontón said this morning, trying to whiten out the socialist punishment in Galicia. No, no, 700 million that we lost because of that capricious and always discriminatory division of the socialist government. But the distribution criteria used by the State are never the object of negotiation with the autonomous communities. They are not the criteria for funding agreed on in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council; they are always defined, in any case, in a continuous and repeated manner; they are always defined in a discretionary manner; they are changing, and they are always very inequitable. And they increase, you have to say, the gap between more and less dynamic regions, promoting a two-speed Spain. Finally, criteria, which apply the Socialist Government, which always punish and discriminate, with the complicity of the BNG, must be said, they always punish and discriminate Galicia. Unfortunately, the comparative aggravations in the distribution of funds are only the tip of the iceberg of the socialist government abuse to our community. Pedro Sánchez is the president of the Government of Spain who has treated Galicia the worst in his autonomous history. He lives in a permanent attack on our community, an attack, in addition, continuously justified and repeated by PSdEG-PSOE. They live in a permanent attack on our community: by attacking budgets, by approving the worst budget budgets for Galicia for Galicia for the last 15 years in terms of territorialized investments, by overcoming, of course, their own record of a permanent attack on our community: by attacking the budget budgets: by attacking the budgets, by approving the worst budget budgets for Galicia for Galicia for Galicia for the last 15 years in terms of territorialized investments, by overcoming, by, of course, their own record of agragragras record, which has already been established in the failed budgets of the year 2019; by attacking the Galician industry, by attacking the Galician industry, by saying what Mr. Arangüena said in the last 15 years, by dismantling the industrial fabric of Galician industry, by forcing the industrial fabric of Galician industry in Galicia, by forcing the closure and march to close and march to move to Alcoa, Siemens Game, Siemens Game, by refusing to build a bridge ship from the year of the year of the last 15 years, by living live in a permanent attack to our community: by attacking, by attacking our community, by attacking the budget, by taking the worst budget, by approving the worst, by approving the worst budget, by approving the worst budget, by approving the worst budgets of the worst, by adopting, by approving of the last budget, by approving of the last 15 years of the last budget, by approving the last budget of the last the last budget of the last 15 years of the last budget of the last budget of the last budget of the last budget of the last budget of the last the last 15 for the last 15 years in the last 15 years in the last 15 years in the last 15 for the last 15 for the last 15 for the last 15 years in the last 15 years in the last the last year in the last the last the last the last the last the lasts in the last the last the last year in the last the last year in the last year in the last the last year, by means of the last year, by means of the last year, by means of the lasts for the last year, by means of the last year of the last year of the last year, by means of the last year of the investments of the investments of the investments of the territorial of the territorial of the territorial of the territorial of the territorial of the territorial of the territorial of the territorial of the territorial of the territorial of the territorial Without a doubt, Pedro Sánchez is the president who has treated Galicia the worst in our autonomous history. Ladies and gentlemen, comparisons are hateful and it's true, comparisons are hateful, but the best way to denounce Pedro Sánchez's lack of support for professionals, self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises is to compare it with everything that has been done since the German Government in the last months of the pandemic and from the first moment, not a year and a month later. Just a month after the outbreak of the pandemic, the Galician Union launched an economic recovery plan that mobilised more than 3,000 million euros and already contained the first aid for self-government and business, such as the interest-free credit line or the cheque for digitization. But during this time, two rescue plans were put in place and in record time for self-employed and small businesses that totaled 160 million euros. Two plans that, in addition to having investments that represent approximately the same annual budget of the Conseilerie do Mar, or which meant the construction of a comarcal hospital, have had direct aids that were paid swiftly, with simplified and complementary processing with other types of aid. In addition to these two plans the Union is already profiling, within the social dialogue and the Self-Employment Bureau, the third rescue plan, which will be activated with the money that the Central Government brings to the autonomous communities. These were the main lines of help, but I can list a long list of measures that have been developed since the first time. Help to support the packaging of terraces and home services, 3 million euros; specific aids for the establishment of nighttime leisure, 650,000 euros; credit lines to bring liquidity, more than 10 million euros. Plan Galicia secure destination, to support the packaging and equipment of tourist and hostel establishments; platform Safe trade; programmes to support small trade and dynamisation campaigns; training and counselling programmes through Igape, Law of reactivation and administrative simplification -- to which you have given your back -- and a long et cetera. In view of this situation, ladies and gentlemen, we are now presenting this initiative, which has three fundamental objectives: firstly, to demand greater speed and agility on the arrival of these aids, in addition to facilitating the requirements for the justification of expenditure. Secondly, to demand a fair distribution between autonomous communities and not to prejudice Galicia; what the Government of Spain proposes is to reduce EUR 110 million to autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises in Galicia. And thirdly, to expand the sectors benefited so that the aid can reach more professionally. We want to make a call to the responsibility of the parties that make up the opposition in Galicia and that are, in addition, government and government partners in Madrid, in the Government of Spain. They have to decide, the PSdeG has to decide if they keep applauding their party in Madrid, and the BNG has to decide whether they continue to support the president they put in front of the Government of Spain in a complicity. They have to choose whether they continue to applaud Madrid or if they once stand by the side of the Greeks, who vote for us, who voted for us. They have to make that decision. We don't ask for any more funding from the German Government, we don't ask for funding from the German Government, we ask for more funds from the autonomous and small and medium-sized companies in Galicia. We do not ask for ourselves, we ask for them all, we ask for more agility, we ask for less requirements, we ask for more sectors to benefit and we ask for more funds; what Galicia corresponds to it, what Galicia needs. They are fair claims that we hope all the groups that make up this House will be supported unanimously. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pérez López has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u118	President. Thank you. Good morning to all and to all. Let me begin my intervention by conveying my deepest sympathy to the family of a neighbour of Carballo who died yesterday in a violent event in my village. And to extend that pity to all those people who, directly or indirectly, were affected by this terrible event. Nothing justifies the loss of a human life, there is always another way, so today more than ever it is necessary to shout not to violence. [[Applause]] Already entering the initiative presented by the PP, through Royal Decree 5/2020 of 21 March, of extraordinary measures to support business solvency in response to the pandemic of the Covid-19, the Spanish State finally and among other measures articulates direct aid to self-employed, entrepreneurs and professionals affected by the pandemic. From the BNG we again and again denounce, from the beginning of the pandemic, the absence of direct aid lines to the most affected sectors, in particular, autonomous and pemes. A large number of these professionals saw how the health measures established to try to control the pandemic prevented them from working normally. The different and necessary decisions taken by the Spanish Government and the Galician Union to control the pandemic have led to the temporary closure, time and activity limitations, or the prohibition or limitation of movement of most of Galician self-employed and pesos. All these measures, which restricted or directly impeded their professional activity and therefore directly affected their invoicing, were not accompanied by corrective measures either by the Spanish State or by the Galician Union for months, namely, 9 months. He didn't arrive, in the case of Galician Union, Mr. Tellado, a year and a month that you spoke, but 9 months ago. Months in which the billing was drastically reduced or was non-existent, depending on the activity sector, but what was not reduced were the fixed current expenses, which continued to be incurred. Costs that, after nine months without direct aid from neither the state nor the board of Galicia, and without being able to work normally for the epidemiological situation, have led many self-sufficient and committed to an unsustainable situation because of the lack of liquidity. That, in most cases, because that lack of immediate and coherent direct support for restrictive measures of activity was leaving a stream of blinds down across the country, and I assumed the closure of hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises, most of them family members, our people and our cities. And the lack of help during those nine months, which led to the definitive closure of thousands of businesses in Galicia, of course it has the responsibility of the state government, but also of the Galician Union. From the BNG we have claimed, from the very first moment, those aids, which could inflate the air to thousands of Greek businesses, and we have claimed them from the Spanish state but also from the Galician Union, which has powers and budgetary capacity to articulate them. But for nine months the PSOE and PP have dedicated themselves to speculating from a political point of view on this issue. The Union, demanding state aid that did not arrive but that did not articulate either, despite the drowning of the autonomous and pesos of our country; and the Socialist Party of Galicia, demanding help from the Union, but without doing so also from the state. Absolutely irresponsible positions of both the Spanish State and the Government of Mr. Feijóo, because while the Union and the State played this shameful and sterile political tennis party, 17% of the Galician business fabric has disappeared, 1 out of every 6 job generator businesses has closed -- according to INE data -- and 2,200 autonomouss have left their activity since the beginning of the pandemic. Demolitional data that, given the performance of one administration and another, show that neither of them were aware of the circumstances and of what they were legally required by the Greeks and the Greeks. The measures articulated by the Union in the so-called I and II rescue plans, starting in November 2020, 9 months after the onset of the pandemic, were not sufficient. Welcome because this time they did ease the situation of drowning from some sectors, but it wasn't enough and they didn't reach all. And more help and performance will be needed, as it has already slipped from the German Government. As will not be sufficient the aid lines opened by the State in this royal decree 5/2021. All aid for the sectors concerned will be needed. At the end of March, according to data from the Ministry of Social Security, 25,597 were the Greek professionals who were charging the benefit for cessation of activity. And according to the barometer of the situation of self-employed in April 2021, carried out by the ATA, by the National Federation of Self-employed Workers, 4 out of every 10 of these professionals will be discharged when the aid disappears, so May 31 could be the expiry date of nothing more and nothing less than 10,500 businesses in our country. Independents and Welsh pemmes need clear, continuanced and appropriate policies to the Greek reality, and unfortunately Royal Decree 5/2021 presents important ones. The first, concerning the amount that Galicia will receive and the distribution criteria employed by the State. The same distribution criteria apply to the React -- EU funds, which are clearly harmful to Galicia by not taking into account our particularities, or even the number of autonomous people in our country. And they assume that we receive less money even than we would have to apply the usual criteria for the distribution of the interterritorial system. And as it is well said in the popular initiative, many activities seriously affected by covid-19 are excluded, so we also consider it logical to extend the CNAEs provided for in the norm to determine the beneficiaries of such aid. We share that it is of vital importance, given the lack of liquidity in these sectors seriously affected by the pandemic, that such aid comes as soon as possible to the beneficiaries. We can therefore clearly support the request of the State to reconsider the requirements for the justification of expenditure and to review the criterion for the exclusion of aid, which is indeed very strict in this real decree. Because that review meant that many more companies could benefit from those aids and that would be good for the situation. According to CEPYME, the Spanish Confederation of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, only 96,000 Greek companies would be eligible as beneficiaries of these aids, or half of the Italian productive tissue. And the amount to be received, about €2,400 of the average, which will not cover even fixed expenses. As I said before, help from all administrations will be needed to save what's left of our productive tissue. And we have no problem in supporting this initiative in which the PP calls for more State aid for Galicia, which, however, for 9 months -- in fact, it did not take a year and a month but 9 months -- Mr. Feijó's government refused to articulate, despite its ability and, above all, its responsibility to do so. Here would have felt the saying of "counsels seeing that for me I don't have," and for that, understanding that the Greek Government asks of the State what legitimately corresponds to Galicia, it also has the Greek Government to exercise its leadership in Galicia to get the best possible way out of the situation we live. And that is why we tabled a amendment to add to the resolution a new paragraph, which the Italian Parliament calls on Galician Union to immediately develop, adopt and implement a plan to support Galician women and self-employed people who, together with new direct aid, includes, among other extremes, a set of measures and actions aimed at reducing operating costs of the activity -- current costs -- mediation with the owners of the property in which the pemens and the self-employed operate; the conduct of management directed at the interruption of interest due to loans and credits linked to commercial activity. And in view of the situation that I have already described of the pemes and autonomous Greeks and the evasa of the Royal Decree 5/2021 of the State, we present this amendment, which is a plan of support for these sectors, which, in addition to the aid, is supposed to exercise the leadership that the Council of Galicia must assume in order to try to overcome the serious situation. Leadership that would lead, basically, mediation work that would rotate over three basic pillars: mediation with the providers of energy services, telecommunications, water or similar, to moderate or free the costs these services entail for autonomous and pemes; mediation with the tenants of the places where pemes and self-employed develop their activity to achieve a reduction in income; mediation with financial entities to reduce interest and increase the shortage of loans. From the BNG we understand that these actions are necessary on the part of the Union, tending to alleviate the grave situation of pemes and self-governing in our country, and that it would be possible to exercise the leadership that is required by the Government of Greece in the face of the serious consequences caused by the crisis of the cowardice in our productive fabric. Finally, saying that this Royal Decree 5/2021, with a breakdown of funds that are harmful to Galicia by applying criteria that do not take into account our reality, is the consequence that Galicia is not present in those forums where the decisions that affect us are taken. And that's why the BNG has already held Mr. Feijóo's Government in September, to reach a consensus and to form a genuine position of country, firm in the defence of Galicia's interests in the relationship with the Spanish State. In order to be able to get out of this crisis, Galicia needs all the tools that it can have, to achieve economic and social recovery, a fair distribution of European funds or to avoid the industrial crisis that we are suffering, it is necessary to start a bilateral dialogue with the Spanish State for the transfer of all pending competences. Or it is the same thing, to move towards a real self-government that allows us to be in the forums where decisions are made that affect our country so that we can decide for ourselves. Only then will the Government of Greece have all the tools needed to make the necessary decisions for the reconstruction of the country. It's more necessary than ever. Mr. Tellado, the BNG has been, is and will always be in favor of Galicia's interests, don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u120	Thank you, President. First of all, good morning to all, good afternoon now. Indeed, after Mr. Tellado's intervention, as always, we respect these kinds of initiatives, as it couldn't be otherwise, we didn't agree with the diagnosis. Indeed, we are faced with a very complex, very difficult, dramatic situation, which has its cause in a public health issue and which has social effects, in the economic sphere; a dramatic year in 2020, where the expectations, indeed, of improvement in public health, with a massive vaccination of the population, will be able to strike a way out of the question and the economic and social crisis that we are experiencing. In fact, it's not going to be all that easy, so the studies and the official institutes show it, the IMF, the independent authority of tax responsibility itself, which puts the exit of the slower crisis than we all would like right now. What is certain is that, indeed, in the face of a situation like this, a situation of global crisis, which affects consistently in Europe and Spain, the Spanish State specifically and autonomous communities in an asymmetric manner, not all in the same way, the Spanish State has reacted in conjunction with European institutions in a way that we believe is positive, although everything is, of course, better and all is critical, of course. Year 2020: the Spanish State mobilised EUR 20 billion, 20% of GDP, to alleviate the economic and social effects of the pandemic in the Spanish state as a whole. Year 2021: approximately €29.700 million is what moves the State to alleviate the economic and social effects of this pandemic. Obviously, this shows that there is a way out of the economic crisis from the state, from the European institutions, absolutely alternative and contrary to what was done in 2011 and beyond. An output based primarily on the expansion of public spending, the injection of liquidity in economic activity, in productive sectors, measures that are totally expansive and have nothing to do with the outcome of the crisis that occurred in 2011 and beyond, based, as we all know, on fiscal adjustment, on the contraction of public spending, which caused what we all know in the middle classes and, essentially, on the working classes. And in this sense, we must positively value the security network that the Spanish State has woven into the whole of the citizens of this country. A safety net that effectively avoided the collapse of the economy and injected ingenious funds into the productive fabric, also in Galicia, Mr Tellado, also in Galicia. Because you were talking about what the Galician Union did, that I'll kill you after some questions, but I'll tell you some questions you don't know, because you put Mr. Pedro Sánchez as genuine Leviathan and Galician enemy, when the data don't say that. You have a fixation... finally, I understand it from a political point of view, from confrontation and permanent erosion to the government of the state, but in this case I think you're wrong and I'm going to give you data. EUR 5,520 million mobilised by the ICO in Galicia, which allowed liquidity and the survival of 36,520 companies. In addition, 207,000 Galicians benefited from ERTE benefits in Galicia in 2020. Today, 34,000 Greeks still receive this benefit. 96,000 self-employed received a State allowance in Galicia that allowed, at least, to have at the end of the month a payroll to satisfy their lives. Total mobilised: 1,596 million. In addition, in 2020, the state, as you know, transferred EUR 735 million to the Galician Union, the famous hedge fund, of which, indeed, 418 were to alleviate the effects of the pandemic on health, 93 in the field of education and 224 million in order to alleviate or compensate for the economic downturn. Moreover, the State, the one you and the Government, the one you hate and the one you hate, has been able to take important measures from the social point of view, adopt a vital minimum income that also benefits Galicia and benefits the Greeks, for 24,000 Greeks are benefiting from that social measure. He was able to adopt measures in the social field with direct transfers to the Union, 17 million in a specific fund. Finally, in the year 2021, expansional budgets of the Union, of those who so much like to speak to the leaders of the People's Party and the members of the Government, expansional budgets of the Union, which are essentially fed... 1,500 million more spending capacity, 685 million more from a state transfer, which assumes 1.1% of the deficit that is allowed to the Autonomous Community; hence, more than 430 million from the real fund. And in front of that we now have this real decree -- you say it's late -- where, in fact, there's a mobilization of 11 billion, 5 billion for aid to self-government and pemes in the whole of the Peninsula, Ceuta and Melilla, of which, in fact, Galicia will directly manage 234 million. I mean, he's going to attribute or adjudicate to self-government, with the management criteria he sets up for Junta and the controls he's going to set up the Galician Union, autonomous and pemes, 235 million. In addition, of course, out of 3,000 million for recapitalisation of companies or 1 billion for debt restructuring, which will also benefit the whole of Galician companies. And in front of that, indeed, what is the action of the Board? You were talking about a plan of 3,000 million. I think that three billion-dollar plan exists only in your imagination, in your imagination. What the board really did you just said after talking about the 3,000 million. There's a package of aid that arrived in December, actually, about 80 million, and a package of aid that was approved this year, in the year 2021, and that did not receive the beneficiaries. It is absolutely verifiable that even today the beneficiaries of this kind of aid have not received the aid. From there, everything else is permanent confrontation, disloyalty and eruption to the Government of the State, to place the Government of the State as an example of all the mismanagement of the pandemic, excluding the absolute responsibilities of the Council of Galicia in what it has powers. That is to say, by placing the debate outside Galicia, by placing the debate in Madrid. Mr. Tellado, the initiative, you speak... at last, everything is better, so I don't doubt it. Including this royal decree. You speak at your first point of urgent signing the agreement. Hey, you have to read the royal decree. The royal decree is published on March 12, which comes into force on the same day as its publication and establishes 30 days to sign the convention. If the Galician Union has not signed the agreement at this time, then, hey, you ask Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Count. Ask him, because ten days after signing the convention, he has at his disposal the €235 million. [[Applause]] Second question: allocation of funds. You say the criteria for self-financing must be applied. Well, in the end, it's your criterion and your... there could be another kind of criteria. Here, basically, these are the same criteria that the European Commission uses to distribute funds to all countries. That is to say, the impact of the pandemic on GDP, in this case of the Greek economy, which, as you know, and also constantly brag about it, the Greek economy is much less impacted than the average of the state economy; unemployment, than you also assume, and I am glad that there is less unemployment in Galicia than in the average of the state; and youth unemployment. Those are the criteria. Could you have others? Of course I do. They're taking those. I think they're objective criteria, because here we're talking about is taking action against a pandemic rather than self-financing. As for the others, I agree with you, indeed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u121	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u122	--Yes, I'm done in a minute --. CNAE, if, if certain activities are left out, there is an annex containing 95 codes of activities benefiting from such aid. I can absolutely agree with you that it is necessary to extend the beneficiaries of this kind of help. I believe that there is already an open debate in the state as a whole, and Minister Nadia Calvin himself has stated that he is receptive to this change. Justification of expenditure. Listen, but if there's any help you've approved the Galician board of the 2021 package that's not yet paid. And besides, the royal decree, which needs to be read, Mr. Tellado, you have to read it, which states is that it is the Council of Galicia which sets the mechanisms and which sets the controls. So you apply the story.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u124	If we have to justify the expenditure and we have to simplify the requirement to justify the expenditure, it'll have to be Galicia's own board, because that's who has the competences. And the last point, indeed, of what you refer to in your initiative in relation to how this kind of aid could benefit also companies that had a negative result in the year 19 because it is necessary to read again the real decree. This is going to help viable companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u126	...those who have economic viability, logically those who have had negative results...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u128	...in the year 2019 as it will have to be established...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u130	...other kind of help, but this goes to viable companies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u132	I'm glad -- a little bit, simply -- that this pandemic, with its obviously dramatic consequences on all the EIDs, is managed -- with all the eves -- by a progressive government, because the data I'm sending myself, in relation to the exit of the crisis in 2011 and the exit of the crisis as it is happening this year 2021. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u133	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u134	Thank you, President. Mr. Pérez López, we would like to thank you and add to the condolences you expressed at the beginning of your speech in connection with yesterday's speech in Carballo, which also affects a member of the People's Parliamentary Group familiarly. We added to that rejection of violence, as it could not be otherwise. Thank you very much. With regard to the amendment put forward by the Galician Nationalist Block, what we have to tell you is that we believe that your amendment raises a number of issues that do not address the bottom line of this initiative, which is, in addition to very concrete. On these funds, we are asking for a fair distribution by the Government of Spain, and in what affects the Government of Greece I think it is not by receiving to urge someone to do what he already does, so it looks like he does because you say it, and therefore I think the support programs by the Government of Greece are under way in that sense. Mr. Francisco Rivera, you're upset with my vehemence, I'm disturbed by your favor. You are Muslims in defending Galicia's interests, and when it comes to defending Galicia's interests, I will always defend vehemence in front of your purchase and that posilianism spirit that characterizes the entire Group of the Galician Socialist Party. Sorry! [[Applause]] They have to choose and you have already chosen, we can't count on you. You say, well, there are criteria and criteria. All those who use always go against Galicia, what a coincidence! You have criteria and criteria. But it's no shame to go out in the street and tell people the things you say here! I guess on the street you don't dare do this kind of analysis. You do an analysis of the economic crisis as something from above, well, looking at, there's a social network, a security network. Yes, a security network that finances Europe and distributes its government discriminatoryly, always punishing Galicia. Go with the security networks you're playing with! [[Applause]] You speak of the ERTE as if the ERTE were a gift that we must thank Mr. Pedro Sanchez. But if the ERTE figure we approve the People's Party in our work reform that you wanted to derogate! By the way, the exception you didn't make because you didn't even keep your own promises. You're talking about the minimum living income, they charge 8,000 Greeks, and they have to charge 40,000 gales. But don't fuck people, Mr. Francisco Rivera! Less goodwill and more vehemence in defending Galicia's interests! In the last allocations of funds from the Government of Spain, Galicia has sized 700 million euros, 666 to be exact, and you applaud in a complicit way. His catechism, the catechism of the PSdEG-PSOE, is all of it. It's very clear, they're never gonna face, because they're never. They're never when they need them, you applaud Madrid and they think that's all done. Look, don't talk about autonomy, because where you could support them didn't do it: Vigo Town Hall, Pontevedra Deputy, what did you do? Nothing. By the way, you're from the PSdEG-PSOE of Ourense. In Ourense, what did they do? To make use of the self-help of the Provincial Deputy in the courts. Shame on you! But I think the PSdEG-PSOE has reached an absolute level of shame. Today we read in the press: "The President of the Lugo Deputy rejects accusations of machismo.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh But again, but we're back! It is that Mr. Gonzalo Caballero has lost the opportunity today to apologize to the House of All the Greeks about these words. No, no, not only did you not apologize in the House, is that now you -- by calling it something -- confirms the words and you look elsewhere, and that's the truth. We appreciate Mrs. Ana Pontón's solidarity with Elena Candia, but the truth is you're still standing in front of the Deputy of Lugo to a cave. That is indisputable, Mrs. Ana Pontón, and that will remain in your political curriculum. [[Applause]] Gentlemen of the PSOE, you continue with this attitude of official palm trees, because this attitude of official palm trees, of course, is very critical, but today it is authentically ridiculous, because, while Mr. Caballero in Ferraz prepares the pine box, you continue to applaud to see if you earn minutes on the playground. Frankly, lamentable! And Mrs. Pontón, we do not accept that permanent attitude of the Galician Nationalist Block. You are complicit and co-responsible for what the Government of Spain does and that it damages and attacks Galicia, because you put them there and because you keep them and because you co-govern with them where they can, in all the municipalities and the deputies in which they are added. But in addition, his attitude is also critical because in the face of the continuing attacks by Sánchez to Galicia, his answer, Mrs. Pontón, is to blame the attack, which is Galicia,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u135	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u136	...to exempt the aggressor, who is the Socialist Party and the Government of Pedro Sánchez. That's why he can't look at who he's talking to. [[Applause]] There you are, Mrs. Pontón! Enough of double games, enough of double speeches, enough of excuses, enough of smoke curtains. If they want to support Galicia, they're on Galicia's side, but they don't teach anyone what you don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u138	...in none of the institutions in which they are present. You are only useful to yourself, to keep your money in the Town Councils, in the Deputies or where they are with the Socialist Party. And that's why, when the Socialist Party punishes Galicia, what does the Galician Nationalist Block do? See, hear and shut up. Sorry, sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u139	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u141	We proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, initiative of Mrs Maria González Albert. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms. Ana Pontón Mondelo and Ms. Maria González Albert, on the performances to be carried out in Galicia in order to recognize the Bierzo as a province When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 52. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u142	We now vote on the People's Parliamentary Group initiative by Mr Calvo. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the German Nationalist Block are not accepted. Voting of the motion for a non-law of G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on the shipyards of Navantia, in the Ferrol River The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u143	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Da Marina Ortega. The amendment is accepted, which is a modification to the first point. Vote of the Proposal for a Non-Law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Marina Ortega Otero and Mr Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the recognition of the degree of disability reviewed in the years 2019 and 2020 and the telephone ratings that are being carried out for their achievement The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. It is therefore rejected by this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u144	We voted for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Ms Maria Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the proposal to eliminate the patents of the products in the fight against cover-19 and the acquisition of vaccines that exceed the mandatory health controls The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 40; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u145	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Arangénana. Vote of the Proposal for a Non-Law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Fr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández and Ms. Paloma Castro Rey, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the marine-industry-food sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. It is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u146	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado's initiative. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Vote of the Non-Legal Proposition, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Cristina Sanz Arias and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to Royal Decree Law 5/2021 of 12 March, of extraordinary measures to support business solvency in response to the pandemic of the Covid-19 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; abstentions, 12. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u147	I'm going to read you an institutional statement that brings the groups to me and says, "The Galician Parliament wishes to express its support for women who were attacked at the Maruxaine festival in 2019 and expresses its strong rejection of the recordings of which they were objected, broadcast on websites of pornographic content. These over 80 women, among them underage, were victims of a masquerading and denigrating act that attacks their dignity as women and as people. For this reason, the House is calling for the facts to be investigated in depth so that they are not unpunished. No context, whether in public or in private, justifies aggression against the intimacy and fundamental rights of women or anyone else. Even so, the Galician Parliament will support the development and momentum of those measures which the competent authorities have at their disposal to prevent such situations from happening again." [[Approved by consent.]] We're still on the agenda. We move on to the sixth point, interpellations. Interpellation by Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in connection with school harassment To formulate the plea, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u148	Well, let's talk about cohabitation, which is a good necessity. President, Counsellor. Laura is 13 years old and she's the one who points out that since she's had use of reason she's felt displaced and isolated in different centers. He grew up blaming himself, and even thinking that he deserved those insults and those contempts that he suffered every day. You just thought it was your fault -- I was saying -- and, suddenly, there's some kick, intimate photos on the networks, and until, a year ago, a date message appeared to you in your app to commit suicide. Mary is 15 years old, she says she has never suffered physical blows, but, as she says, "my body was my hell." "I have suffered insults from my body, even in front of the teachers, who were sometimes unable to see the levels of pain and suffering that this involved." Mary evolves favourably today, after her second hospital admission with anorexia diagnosis. Leo, on the other hand, was 12 years old when he was diagnosed with TDH, and this is the third center of what happens and, as his psychologist says, Leo fluctuated between the role of stalker and stalker, something very common in these cases as well. The system has never been able to take effective measures with Leo, who is now suffering from severe depression and agoraphobia. Laura, Mary, Leo, the hundreds of children who, as soon as we celebrate this plenary today, went to their teaching centers with fear, have in common the anguish that they suffered because of these circumstances, but I think they have something more in common that should make us reflect on everything and everyone. They have in common that we failed them. We fail them as administration, we fail them as an educational community, also in so many cases, because on too many occasions we even lack tools and training to discern what is harassed of what is not. And that's why we came here, after dozens of meetings with various collectives, with all the constructive will and all the hand held to put everything in our hand so that no more students like Laura, like Leo and as many and as many children as are suffering from this problem will ever see themselves in that situation. And that's why we think it's essential to talk, listen and work; we all work together, listen to what they're telling us in these weeks of ANPA federations, what they're telling us to UNESCO, what they're telling us about families and what they're telling us reports, for example, like Amnesty International -- what I'm going to make reference to later -- that they're demonstrating, that they'd move that it would make no sense that on a subject like school harassment we're turning this debate into a new confrontational exercise. Nor would it be understandable for the Government to debate itself as an exercise of self-comprehensiveness and "and you more". There's a lot to be done, we have a lot of work ahead of us, because the cases we're detecting are just the tip of the iceberg, and that's exactly what comes out of this Amnesty International report: making a lookout, school harassment in Spain, a human rights issue of the year 2019. A document that we must also pay particular attention to in our country, because much of that fieldwork, that data collection work, has been done in this country. And from that report there are statements that I think deserve a reflection of all of us here, because I have no doubt that giving these dramatic situations is the goal of all of us here. There are statements such as the following: the necessary measures are not being implemented; important ponds remain to be covered if we want the rights of children and children to be respected and protected in educational institutions. Assents such as: harassment at school is not a problem at one or another center, it takes much more to ensure that children enjoy their rights. Statements such as: the authorities are not taking all necessary measures to protect and prevent school harassment. Or statements -- and I think this is something that must be central -- as we should also pay special attention to non-physical forms of harassment, such as insults, social exclusion, which often go unnoticed and are not documented in official channels. This report is black on white that many of the tools we currently have -- and we have no doubt that the administrations, on the part of the educational community, are trying to tackle an objective, real and undersized problem -- are lacking. They have shortcomings such as that Decree 8/2015, of January 8, of coexistence, which develops Law 4/2011, does not present a specific paragraph to address the problems of school harassment, as, on the other hand, if it presents -- in the third chapter, if I am not mistaken -- the law that it intends to develop. As documents that emerge from this decree, such as the Protocol for the Prevention and Detection and Treatment of School Harassment, or the School Cooperation Council itself, which has recently met, present a series of evasive measures, in the case of the protocol -- apart from a unanimous complaint by several of the groups working on this issue -- a bureaucracy that slows down and prevents in many cases that work can be done with the necessary agility. So let's get an idea: of the 100 pages that have that protocol, almost half, 47, are templates to cover, 23 attachments that involve a bureaucratic work that ultimately does not happen in actions -- in so many cases -- real ones that are imperative to the fundamental tool in which I think we all agree, which is prevention. But, for example, there are and ponds like in the School Council for Convivence -- advice that, also denounces some participants of that council, meets with a manifestly improved periodicity -- is in the decree itself, in article 10.5, when the issues of this council are developed, there is terminology such as coexistence, school, conflict resolution,... but there is also no "challenge" in the functions that grant this council. And all of these people put us in a data that I think deserves a reflection of all of us here, and that deserves a reflection because they show contradictions that I think they place that statement -- which said Amnesty International's own report that we're just looking at the tip of the iceberg -- at the center of the debate. For us to come up with an idea, UNESCO points out that one in three children suffers from episodes of violence or sometimes harassment in their lives. If we collect this data from the data given by the Ministry of Education and Culture -- the last published ones are from 2017 -- we're talking about only 71 cases being activated in the German case. But there's a new document, a document from the Galician Board itself, as is the diagnostic report of the school coexistence strategy itself, developed last year, which I think we should address and focus on and do an analysis of these data, because I think they're giving us information that must be central in order to be able to clarify the reality that we have in the case of harassment. In that report, 21.8% of children suffered school violence on one occasion. One out of five children is saying that they suffer from this, but the problem is that, by the dynamics of questions themselves, we can't discern that episodes of violence constitute school harassment and what they can't be. Because, for example, you're asked by episodes of marginalization, episodes of defamation on social networks, episodes of violence, and then, in another section, you're asked about school harassment. Would anyone understand -- and I am glad that agreements have been reached in this Parliament, for example, against the violence of the masculine population -- that someone would distinguish a woman from being subjected to violence or discrimination from being abused? I think that's the focus we should be on in the case of school harassment, and that's the project so, from this group, after meetings with several agents involved, we make a call. Because, even if we go to the specific data in the report of the Welsh strategy itself, with reference to the case of school harassment, we are talking about that 5.8% of children, omitting episodes of violence, obvious episodes of defamation on the networks, obviating episodes of isolation that go on in another paragraph, but 5.8% of children in compulsory education and 6.2% in post-war show that they have suffered, perceived, episodes of school harassment. The numbers should make us think: about an educational community of about -- gross figures -- 250,000 students, we're talking about that 15,000 students in this country show that they have experienced episodes of school harassment in that report. Logically, this requires tools, this requires reflection, and it requires us to counter to another fact that I think we should also make a call to our reflection: that in view of that 6.2 students who perceive this reality of harassment, only 1.33% of families perceive this data of harassment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u149	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u150	... finished, president, we're talking about 12,000 children manifesting themselves in this situation without families knowing they're suffering from this situation. Go ahead, Counsellor, that we bring this initiative -- finished -- with the will, absolutely constructive, with the tending hand, after months of dialogue, work, with involved agents, with families, with ANPA federations, and many of the conclusions or approaches that we intend to incorporate are consistent with these sectors. What we ask of him is that we focus, that we work, because we have a lot of work ahead of us, and that, of course, this hand is held here, and that at the time since the Education Council, if we set a date and an hour, it will go ahead of us so that we will never have to see as students like Laura, like Mary, like Leo, as many children who are suffering from this situation, have to suffer. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Lourenzo Sobral. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the stage]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u152	Very good morning. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. There is no doubt that we are facing a tremendously serious problem, a very worrisome problem and that, above all, it is very serious and very worrying for the victims, both for the children and for their families. And I am also sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the fight against school harassment, or against any other kind of violence, is a shared task in the whole of Galician society and, by the way, well deserves, well deserves, a constructive debate in this Parliament. We all defend zero tolerance, absolutely zero, in the face of any situation of harassment at school, there is no less doubt, in the face of any kind of harassment at school or discrimination against a student. In this matter we must involve ourselves absolutely all, adults and children, families, teachers, with the whole educational community, being also aware that, as a society, we have gone along, we have made a lot of progress, but that there are also many things to do, and until there is, in some way, no case of school harassment, because we have to keep working. We have to keep working, and the answer you give will never be complete, will always be incomplete while there is only one case or one case of school harassment in our educational centers. The approach with which the Council works in relation to the fight against school harassment has an integral character, which also involves the set of resources of the Greek education. It works continuously for the improvement of the climate of coexistence, and this climate of coexistence is perhaps one of the fundamental guidelines that mark the quality of teaching provided by educational institutions, and which is fundamental to favoring or pushing everything that has to do with learning. And for all this, the truth is, I really appreciate that this interpellation enables us to highlight the policies that have been developed in recent years in relation to the prevention of school harassment, ultimately, with regard to the coexistence of educational institutions. As you know, Your Honor, Galicia has been a pioneering community in the state as a whole where it has to do with the commitment to coexistence and participation of the educational community. You quote, in your interpellation, Law 4/2011, which was developed through a decree, Decree 8/2015, of 8 January, and you also acknowledge that from these two normative texts, initiatives such as the Welsh Strategy of School Coexistence 2015-2020, Educonvives, and a series of protocols, for example, the Protocol for the Prevention, Detection and Treatment of School and Cyberacoustic harassment. Or the Galician Council for School Survival is also created. The truth is that we can understand that these documents are insufficient for the BNG. The truth is that Greek nationalism did not support them, it did not support them as a party in 2011, and it was against the Law of coexistence and participation, and also in 2015 it did not want to support what was the Greek Strategy of School Coexia, Educonvives. The truth is, behind this lack of support, there is one that does not support a great job and an enormous effort that makes all the members of the educational community to improve the environment and the climate of coexistence. However, we also have to say that these steps have taken, they have served to ensure that a strategic plan of school coexistence has also been adopted in the State as a whole. This was in 2016, with Minister Íñigo Méndez de Vigo, who even recognized that he had inspired himself in Greek, and also gave a new boost from here to the State Observatory of School Covivencia, which had been created in 2007, in this case by Minister Mercedes Cabrera. Well, the Galician Strategy of Coexistence, what made it possible? Well, he's made it possible to have cohabitation plans in all the centers. What's also possible? Design, plan, organize a series of actions, formative actions for conflict prevention -- in families and teachers --, dissemination of experiences and good practices, homogenization of documents to have standard models to speed up conflict management. There are no two equal conflicts, there are no two equal conflicts, and it's very difficult to standardize intervention about them. Power of conciliation and coordination with actions with other entities or institutions that work for coexistence, because normally these problems are not just a school problem, but that the family, the environment and the environment also have a direct impact. Also from this strategy, two macro-enquises were designed and pushed, one from 2015, one macro-questioner, a macro-enquisition that was updated in 2019, and I think that these two macro-enquisitions come out with results that at least set a scenario and an overview in which we are working and what we have to work on. What do they tell us? Well, without any kind of privacy, eh!, without any favor, but it's data of the macro-enquisition that has been done to families, to the professor, to the whole educational community, around half a million people. 85% of the collectives, families and teachers believe that there are no conflicts of coexistence in their centres, or that they are punctual, but obviously while there is one that we have to keep working. We are also told by 60% of those who respond to the survey that there has been an improvement in the climate of coexistence from 2015 to 2019. I also want to mention the data on the perception that the educational centre promotes or supports everything that has to do with coexistence and peaceful resolution of conflicts. For example, when it comes to compulsory education, 79.4% of the educational community believes that the centre, with an integral perspective, intervenes in the concrete and direct improvement of the school climate and the climate of coexistence. Just 3,4% doesn't understand that. In postobrigatory data are very similar: 76.5% understand that the center intervenes at the best of cohabitation, and only 3.3% believe that it does not. Obviously, it's always interesting, to have a shared vision -- because if you don't have comparative data at Spain level, we don't have that data -- see some indicator or some state data. For example, there is a telephone service from the Ministry and the Anal Foundation, which tells us that in Galicia only 3% of the calls are made to this state service, for one student around five percent and peak. And we're talking about calls, not cases, because one thing is a call and another thing is that it's a real case, and that for that there's to be followed, to some extent, the channels that are the educational centers themselves, and that's also the educational inspection services. We agree, Your Honor, that it is difficult, by its own procedures and because there must be tremendously guaranteed procedures, to have specific data of school harassment. Why? First, because we are faced with a tremendously complex, sensitive phenomenon, which must be very prudent, very cautious, and which must be trusted in the work of professionals. First the centre intervenes; if the centre, through its conciliation measures, does not solve the problem, inspects the inspection; and finally, if the inspection is unable to mediate, the state's security forces and bodies intervene, and to some extent there is also a need to assess something so sensitive with an integral perspective. It is very important to know the diagnosis and to have information about the perception and concrete actions that develop within the educational centers and within the educational communities themselves. I'm sure you know that last week the third survey, or macro-enquisition, of coexistence, was launched. It's very important, to have information, there's no more reliable source of information than this one, and it's the one that allows us to act or that allows them to act in the centers. With a commitment to be made on a multi-year basis. The centers have until April 29th to do it. There's no better information, because it's true that there's a lot of reports but they have different methodologies, collected from different information, different display scenarios, different assertions and diagnoses, and what we want with this is to have a biannual temporal sequence in Galicia, where we have a concrete, specific and very clear response to the whole educational community. I think this is very important to have a vision of coexistence, and when I talk about coexistence, I also talk about school harassment, as one of the cornerstones of bad coexistence, or as one of the most important elements of bad coexistence. From then on, all educational centres will receive the results, the Council and the inspection service will have information to be able to intervene, to put together plans of coexistence, and to be able to act in those areas where we can start, with strict traceability, different actions. Obviously, there's a lot to do, and there's a lot of work to do, but undoubtedly this survey will give us the basic information to plan, prevent and act, and obviously, the improvement of recent years is not infuse science, there's a work behind, a work of professionals in different aspects, for example, what it has to do with the implementation and follow-up of protocols for prevention, detection and intervention against harassment, and, of course, against cyber-racous, increasingly important. Of course, the reinforcement of the teacher's training or the schools of mothers and parents who train us. As I said earlier, we must all defend zero tolerance in the face of any situation of harassment, violence or discrimination, and while there is only one case we will have to keep working, and do so in an integral way, with an integral and participatory approach, where the centre is the first element to mediate, which has to intervene, which has to provide solutions to different cases. And the last point must obviously be to pass this on to the judicial field...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u154	...or to the police field. Finally, I think I'm questioning the commitment... I understand that you didn't, but I don't think you should question the commitment of the Greek education system to face school failure, you shouldn't question the effort made by the professor, the inspections and the centers. There is a great deal of work to reconcile and solve these kinds of problems within a framework set by the Autonomic Administration. And look, when there is a case, it acts promptly, with absolute readiness, and with great caution, always respecting the rights of the affected people. And this has to be always for the student's whole, it has to be very special when it comes to minors, and I think that we have to be tremendously rigorous, tremendously prudent, and continue to develop with an implication as there is up to the moment, very powerful and very strong, of the centers, of the inspection teams, of the guidance teams, detect, intervene and prevent the harassment problems from causing some kind of prejudice to the children, to the children, to the people affected by them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u155	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u156	I don't know if you didn't listen to my intervention, if you didn't pay attention to which were the objectives we explained, but the fact is that I was reminded of a British teacher, Tom Hodgkinson, who follows the theses of slow and non-violent education, and who was also a rugby player, and said that in rugby, as in education, it was very important, it was fundamental, to win the parties, to look at the sides, because if we just looked forward we ended up losing the perspective of what's going on in the field. You what you came here to do, Counselor, was to explain to us what measures were being taken. I have to tell you that yes, I have noticed a certain self-comprehensibility, but, in any case, for the sake of the constructive spirit and seriousness, the pain and suffering that we are having in the educational community, I'm really going to keep trying to find agreements and the search for us to work with all the organizations that are reporting that many of the tools that are on the table are not giving the expected result. And it's not something I'm saying to BNG, it's something they're saying about Amnesty International reports, it's something they're saying about so many families affected, it's something they're saying about ANPA federations. But, Mr. Rodríguez, it's something you're also saying about Galician board reports, for data I just put on the table. One of the issues that is criticized, and I wouldn't have time to explain all the eves that are transmitting to us the specialized collectives about the diagnostic report of the Greek strategy, but precisely one of the eves that transmits to us is that it does exactly the same exercise that you've just done here: to present the data in a positive way. We can say that there are 94% of children who are not being harassed or who have the reality that we have 6.2% of children in post-war education who say they are suffering from this reality. We're talking about 15,000 pupils and students from the Welsh educational community, should we take this to a reflection or not? Should this take us to a reflection when, in addition, if we collect this data and put it in relation to the latest data published by the Ministry, we get 71 cases of open protocols? When, if we put them in relation to the data you're giving to UNESCO, do you know there's 1 out of every 3 students who show that they're in a position to suffer from this circumstance? And then I didn't come here to question protocols, and I know the motivations that on many occasions there were opposing positions on the part of this group. But, I insist, I wouldn't want to go into it. But, basically, it was for a principle that we didn't share that it had to do with that authority of the professor. And you know as I do that a teacher or gain authority in class or you can put it on 20 official papers that that authority won't be effective. It was a question of a pedagogical nature, if any, and of an approach. In any case, I don't think that's the end of the debate; the term of the debate is that, just as teachers' representatives are transmitting, for example, it's the difficulty that you have to implement a protocol that has an absolutely brutal bureaucratic burden when we have centers with shortages of personnel and resources that prevent these files from being handled in so many cases with the speed they require. And the consequences, on so many occasions, of this lack of agility -- and a person who participated, as I understand that many of us here, in protocols like that, and we know what we're dealing with -- the consequences of that lack of agility are on dramatic occasions. And he was talking about the difficulty that teachers have on so many occasions to identify these cases, to implement solutions. And that is exactly another one of the demands, the presence of specialized groups to address these cases. There are agreements with the schools of psychologists, for example, to address other issues of violence, and there are agreements in this Parliament so that the schools of psychologists can implement measures and help these people. Why not take steps on that line too, so what are the specialized agents demanding? I'm done, because if I'm out of time, insisting that what the educational community demands from us, what society demands -- because I agree that it's a problem that goes far beyond the educational field -- is that we get to work. Because all the cases that are taking place, because the conflicts that are taking place with the figures are drawing, as the Amnesty International Report says, that we are only perceiving the tip of the iceberg. We need to work on awareness-raising, we need to work on training, we need to work on resource allocation, we need to work on child protection. And that we have to work together all together because, if there's one subject that should not be susceptible to confrontation in any context, but much less in one such as the one that deals with us, it's the topic of violence, and much more when it comes to violence against minors. The data is on the table, the data from Galician board itself, Counsellor, are data from the board itself, we're talking about 15,000 children and girls.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u157	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u158	If that doesn't deserve an agreement, you'll tell me what it deserves. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u159	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation. Councilman of Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I think I was quite explicit in the previous intervention saying that self-comprehensive zero, and that while there is only one case of school harassment, we have to be there to try to avoid it. I think I said it twice and I say it for the third time, self-comprehensive zero. But I also tell you that there is also a sin that is the sin of exaggeration, and you're here bringing the collation a series of reports, of data that, said so, in abstract, are sometimes really surprising. Because, of course, you're comparing data and information, but we should talk about methodologies, we should talk about the typologies we're proposing. And we should talk about what the Ministry understands about harassment, what it is about harassment, what phase is harassment, when it's prevention. And that requires a lot of caution and not trying to create a sort of climate of social alarm on this subject, because we would do the abusers a favor to make expressions as cheerful as you do here, that would be the worst we could do. And I'm sure you do it unconsciously, in your pursuit of attacking this government, perhaps by moving messages that may not come into logic or much less what you mean. But you have to be extremely careful about this because -- as I say already -- it makes the feeling that more than a thousand professionals, for example, in the field of orientation, because they don't do anything. Or that those who develop their work in mediation in educational centers, without being mentors or professionals -- teachers, let's say, normal -- do nothing, and that's really unfair to these professionals who do a great deal of work. And I think, in that sense, if it's true what you say about having your hand held, it's best not to go into that exaggeration or this transmutation of information or to transfer messages that do not correspond, as we just saw with the information, with the real situation. In any case, we -- I told you and I repeat it -- we have the absolute vocation that school harassment is zero, being aware that it's very difficult or impossible, but we have to work on that line to minimize the impact. And really, it's not like the advisor says it at a particular time, we have it in our own electoral proposal. In our electoral program we say we need to update the coexistence strategy to have real information about what's going on and not talk about perceptions. And secondly, within this strategy, to develop a plan to fight school harassment with the objectives that we obviously all know and that I'm sure we share. And, obviously, this is going to be done with dialogue, it's going to be done with participations, it's going to be done with an active presence of the Galician Conseil of Convivencia, where are all the educational community agents who have something to do, something to say in this area. And, of course, we're going to work primarily on three lines of work: first, prevention, most important is prevention, identifying behaviors that are contrary to coexistence, identifying them and acting on them. And what's the most important thing? First, having tools, what can be improved? Of course, but having tools. Galicia is a pioneer in many tools against harassment, cyber harassment, LGTBI students, with many protocols; and secondly, teacher training, to detect, as an educational community and the whole educational community, these cases. Another key aspect is the improvement of professional skills, with specific programs in social mediation, social skills, emotional education, etc. And, of course, it's also very important that positive measures and conduct are perceived in society, it's essential to set an example; good practices and good examples, put them in value. We're going to push for a prize, the Convivio Prize, which basically wants to highlight the good practices of school cohabitation, which is very important. So that we don't think or see only the negative repercussions on the social level, but we see them all. And I think this also has to start with that we have to involve the whole of society in this process, not just the educational center, which of course is itself, but experience tells us that a great majority of disruptive behaviors, of harassment, etc., have to do with social aspects, family, neighbors, that sometimes exceed the purely school. And we all have to act there, and we are going to create in the province, in the provincial area, commissions that assess case by case all possible matters or events linked to school harassment or school will. And that there are not only educators -- that, of course, there are educators -- but that there are health professionals, that there are municipalities, that there are professionals in the field of social policy. Finally, that there is an integral vision, because this isn't just a problem within the classroom, it's a problem that transcends the classes and we must be very prepared and worried to give it a solution. And, well, in any case, as the honourable Member well said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u161	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u162	...come with the tender hand; and I suppose this plea will give rise to a motion. We hope that the motion will be made in constructive terms, that it will allow us to integrate the approaches of the various parliamentary groups and we will see if their good words materialize in fact. And in the meantime, we are allowed to doubt the offers that often make the Nationalist Block Galego when it makes a pact. But in any case -- I insist -- you have an opportunity, when you present the motion and when you discuss the motion, the Parliamentary Group, to evaluate, and there we will do that desired goodwill that you bring us to the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u165	Thank you, Counselor. Change in agenda development We proceed with another change of agenda, in this case a question to the Government. Question by Da Paloma Castro Rey and three other Members, by G. P. of the Galician Socialists, on the objectives set out in the Galician Urban Waste Management Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u166	Question by Mrs Paloma Castro Rey of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u167	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. This Government approved in January 2011 the Galician Urban Waste Management Plan, which was subsequently amended in 2015 to adapt it to the PEMAR, the 2016-2022 State Waste Framework Plan, setting targets for recycling and preparation for reuse and in compliance with the Community obligations and obligations of state legislation, which also expanded the monitoring of the Greek plan until 2022. Among these objectives to be met before 2020 were qualitatively prevention and recycling and strengthening the principle of hierarchy in waste management options. And quantitatively, the amount of household and commercial waste for the re-use and recycling of paper, metal, glass, plastic, bio-waste and other recycling factions was established, which should reach at least 50 % by weight as a whole. Thus, from the Galician standard stock exchange, the forecast of quantities to be used for the re-use and recycling by 2020 of this organic matter had to be 245,261 tonnes/year. The Gallaga Environmental Information Platform (GAIA) in its indicators -- the latest published in 2019 -- says that the amount for recycling and re-use preparation was 46,095 tons, a lot away from the targets. On the other hand, a temporary development scheme was also established for the plan until 2022, which included three phases: the first, the beginning of the plan from 2010 to 2013, the urgent start of the first measures and the improvement of existing plants. The second, the consolidation phase 2014-2017, expansion of existing infrastructures and first local plants and large composting capacity. The second, 2018-2020, review of the progress of the previous measures and the deployment of the rest of the planned infrastructure and installations. And a final phase of evaluation, which would be the 2021s and 2022s -- that is, where we would have to be -- where the reality would be analyzed. So we don't have much to analyze, given the previous ones. These targets, in addition, were realized in an investment of 31 million and a half euros and a network of treatment plants in particular, in addition to the improvement of existing ones, which are Sogama, Nostián, Barba and O Morrazo, 11 new infrastructures with a management capacity each from 500,000 to 10,000 tons/year, as well as an aid to financing small plants of 2,000 tons/year. I was also talking about this plan of a network of infrastructures that would respond to the principles of efficiency, efficiency, proximity and self-sufficiency and, above all, the optimal and fair locations of these infrastructures. We're in the initial phase, we're currently scheduled for 2013, now announces 3 new plants that would have to be finished, so in 2017, so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u168	Thank you, thank you, your time is up. Then he's got another shift. [[Applause]] Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Mrs. Castro, we've been applying the Urban Waste Management Plan in Galicia for over a decade now, it's our roadmap and the results are in sight, but these are not the results you just proposed. It's a plan that has two goals. One of them is to help the municipalities, the municipalities in the exercise of their powers, we're doing it. And on the other hand, we have collected absolutely all the recommendations and demands from the European Union, but also from the central government as regards sectoral legislation, which we have indeed been reviewing and updating because that is what it is to do. It was ten years in which everything changed: the way to consume, but also the way to treat waste and its management, and in which, thanks to this plan, we invested more than 84 million euros. This budgetary effort allowed us to act in all aspects related to urban waste management. And I'm going to give you several examples: We act in the dumps, we eliminate absolutely all the illegal dumps, closing the last in 2013. He went to Negueira de Muñiz. We extend the net of clean points; 90 % of every German citizen has close to their home a clean spot. We're fighting the uncontrolled spills. We eliminated a total of 1,114 uncontrolled spills, with an investment of 7.5 million euros. And we have reduced -- the most important -- by 98 % the landfill, from 311,479 tons in 2011 to 5,463 in 2020. I think it's good to value the effort that the Administration has made since the Galician Union, but also the effort that the municipalities have made. [[Applause]] We advanced on bioresidues: a total of 5,000 brown containers were delivered to the municipalities, with an amount of €556,000. We pushed demonstration projects into 30 schools. We also added Sogama's domestic composting program. We're in 18,300 individual composers divided. Days about the management of bioresidues, with the first tables of waste, in which you missed your absence. And we've made plans against food waste. That was done with the hosts in the four provinces. We're also working on equipping Galicia, as you say, with the new infrastructure. Three new composting plants: Cervo, Verín, Vilanova de Arousa, which means...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u170	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u171	...investment of 25 million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u172	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u173	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you say the plan is the road map. For they must have taken another route because in these years they have not put a minimum interest in meeting the objectives set out in this plan. And that's not a personal appraisal of me, it's not an assessment of my party, but it's perfectly evident with data. With data such as that they only budgeted 20 % of what was planned in the plan and, in addition to this 20 % budgeted, which is a very lower amount, they only executed in the year... the year 2020 was the most executed and they executed 23 %, in 2019 11 %, in 2018 1.5 % of the budget, and in 2017 the record, 0 % of the budget. So data like in 2021 didn't start a single of the 11 plants that were planned to end in 2017, data like in 2019 were collected and revalued 46,000 tons/year, when the plan was planned 245,000 tons/year. Thus, 19% of what was planned in the plan. And, therefore, this one, his roadmap is another other than that which was established in the plan. And besides, you can't throw balloons out in relation to the municipalities, because you're the ones who have worked out the plan and those who haven't met the targets, it's not even far away. The Galician Union has to make policies to equip the instruments and meet these objectives. At this point, there is no doubt that the People's Party in Galicia is a negationist with climate change and a follower of Rajoy's cousin theory, so don't fool the paper. [[Applause]] They just passed a month ago a law of waste with fictitious, fictitious targets, because they're not going to carry them out as they didn't do the plan. They were talking about this plan of principles of proximity and decentralization, and now they're re-regulating a law that centralizes everything in Sogama. They are working on waste management policy because it is a great opportunity to create jobs, to take advantage of this environmental sector and the waste sector, and to help overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Castro, thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, Environmental Advisor, Territory and Living.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u175	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Castro, listen to her once again about the Climate Change Act, especially with regard to articles 18.3 and 18.4 in Galicia... well, the truth is that she has enough to wish. Just like he leaves much to want and lessons none, because if he wants to talk about PSOE models, I'd tell him that when they had the opportunity to rule in Galicia, you made a draft, unique and exclusively, they didn't even put him into action. But I'll also tell you, for example, that they sent over 410,000 tons of waste to the dump in 2008, the highest figure of the last 13 years, Mrs. Castro. Therefore, little can be said about it. And now you are, from the central government, with a waste law, which, by the way, we had to move the autonomous communities forward for approval without having a basic, and what do we find ourselves with? [[Murmurs.]] That they put taxes and more taxes on waste that the citizens have to pay in the end. So instead of investment, you're taxing. Balance over the last 10 years, Mrs Castro: EUR 84 million of investment by the Galician Union. He said we certified zero euros, that is, we didn't do anything at all!... But do you think someone will believe her, do you really believe her? Well, from there we minimized the shipment of waste to the dump, which is what we have to avoid, what is buried is what we are minimizing. The waste dump has dropped by 98.5% in the last ten years, Mrs Castro. We push domestic composting and bioresidue management. We increased reuse and recycling of waste. We are strengthening the collaboration of the Galician Union with the municipalities. We bet on social awareness as well as environmental education. Of course we've also expanded Sogama facilities, reinforcing their model, which we already know you don't like, even though there's similar, a total of 11, also where you rule, and they haven't closed them. But they didn't close them either when they were ruling. It serves 94 % of Galician municipalities. At the moment of a health pandemic there was Sogama, he treated a total of 273,760 kilograms of health waste from the three waves we had. In other communities the Prosecutor's Office is opening files, there have been inspections in this community but it's done a good job and it's thanks to the staff and technicians we have in Sogama. The year 2022, of course, ends the vigil of the plan, we're already working this year for the next...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u176	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u177	...and we wait for their contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u178	Thank you. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u179	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. Da Maria González Albert and two other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in connection with the new eucalyptus plantations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u180	Mrs. González Albert has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u181	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we ask you about a matter that we are very concerned about in the BNG, which are the effects of the announcement of a moratorium on eucalyptus, a moratorium which seeks to introduce, as a self-amendment, into the Land Recovery Act and which today, as you well know, is not yet in force. A paroon that you yourself announced the bomb and dish during the parliamentary debate of the first review of Galician Forest Plan in this very chamber. And I wanted to point to you several things. This announcement, first of all, and as we already pointed out from the BNG, broke directly with the document that was being processed at that time, which was the forest plan, which predicts, and so it was approved here, an increase of up to 3% of the current area of the eucalyptus here to five years in the first five years of management -- between commas -- of the forest plan, but in time, a reduction of those masses from 5% to 20 years, i.e., and making the easy account, a reduction to twenty years of 2 %, which was also not the apocalypse of the sector. Is it clear that a first question emerges here, which is what serves a forest plan that matters so little that one can change in such an important aspect with such a change announced on the same day as it is approved? I mean, you alone passed a document that they announced in their own debate that they were going to fail. This is another one of many surprising issues -- not to say sometimes demeanor -- that is sometimes given, on some occasions, on this camera. That announcement might make an innocent listener think of an improvisation by the council; you might think that you make a decision on the basis of events as they rise in the morning. But since the Galego Nationalist Block we have clear no, we believe that they know perfectly what they do and what their roadmap is, both when they intend to sell in the press the reduction, of course, the reduction of 5% of the surface of eucalyptus, when they then sell in the same means this moratorium. [[Applause]] And, in any case, what became clear to us is that this first review of the forest plan, as we said here also on the day of its approval, fulfills a single purpose, which is to be able to compete with the funds at the RDP and therefore gives exactly what they put on, because they think to make it as little a case as the previous one. Moreover, you have even the boldness -- I don't know how to call it, I do not know -- to take as a motion some municipalities that urge the BNG to withdraw from the motions for resolutions that he presented to the forest plan, and that they demanded a return to legality ten years ago, because we what we asked for -- as a motion for a resolution, that you, of course, did not approve -- was that the 10 years from tomorrow, at ten years, the surface of the eucalyptus would come closer to the one that marked the forest plan that was in force and that approved, too, a government of the People's Party, not the Galego Nationalist Block. By giving this, which is what we wanted, therefore, an eucalyptus space in our country, which has to have it, it is obvious, that you have to have it, but not condemning the monoculture which you repeatedly claim to abhor but which they expect to miraculously disappear, we suppose, because specific actions do not take and someone said what by their fruits you will know them. What is our conclusion? That you've wagered -- you've bet or resigned, I'm going to give you the benefit of the doubt -- right now by a rural leader from the city, without the presence of the population in the territory and therefore without concern for the consequences of the rural nuclei and the whole of the inner Galicia, beyond the urgency issues determined by the forest fires themselves. They turned the council -- we have said it other times -- in a window, in a window display of measures towards the gallery, press hits that today have no real impact on land management, at least so far. So you've announced a moratorium that will in any case be restricted to areas that today have no area of eucalyptal, whether this is degraded or not, a pure surface or a mixed surface from 50 percent of plantation, all goes. This is, first of all, a legal depurpose for us, since it directly confronts the forest plan with the guidelines that are intended to be given through a transitional provision -- I remember -- in the new Land Recovery Act that is being processed. And that's how the country remains, in our view, in an obvious legal insecurity with regard to the management of forest masses and, in particular, on the eucalyptal surfaces. Since then, since that announcement, three versions have been given both from the People's Party's Parliamentary Group and from the council itself on which the conditions of this moratorium would be. His announcement, his own announcement in that plenary spoke of a moratorium until the publication of the continuous forest inventory in Greek. The second version, published in a press release by the board the following day, referred to a moratorium until a greater consensus was reached in the sector. And the third version, which is the one we have today on the table, which is included in the People's Party's self-amendment list for the proposed land recovery law, refers in a transitional way to 31 December 2025. And we found in this question a premeditated work of confusion in the norm. First, towards the representatives of citizenship, towards the political parties, because we, as I said before, greatly value their personal intelligence and therefore we are very clear that this is not an occurrence and if it is not an occurrence, it is therefore a work of concealment, because they do not include such an important issue in the text they present for law and now present it in the form of self-amendment. And second, and most importantly, a confusing work that affects the insecurity of the owners to plan a proper management of their mountains. This situation of insecurity is causing, and it is evident, an effect called, an axillization, of a band, of leafy stems and, above all, of conifers, with the subsequent new eucalyptus plantations of forest owners, who fear that this approval, the approval of this new standard, impeding eucalyptus plantations in their plots once approved. Its proposal, included in the land law, includes, in addition, a quite perverse aspect that goes beyond the fact, already symptomatic, that the amount of exceptions to the prohibition that it includes, practically, that you can continue to plant anywhere, and much more if you consider the new forestry models that you have just approved, and that you have stopped talking about prohibitions to talk about recommendations. Beyond this, I repeat, one of these exceptions includes the possibility of fully replanting plots that today have only 50% eucalyptus. So in practice, the moratorium will already allow the eucalyptal surface to continue to expand legally, as also happens with the permutation of locks so that the council will offer you an increase of 20% of the surface, as well as legal. This is also mentioned in the debate on the forest plan. Today we can also certify the increase in illegal plantations in areas where eucalyptus could no longer be planted, such as grassland plots, protected natural spaces and even agricultural land, an increase that has been produced since its announcement. On the contrary, we have not detected, in parallel, an intensification of the control and follow-up tasks of these illegal plantations by the Union or a reinforcement of the resources for this purpose, with the gallon of enforcing the legality and claiming a replacement of it in illegally forested plots, which would have to be the logic. In fact, we are told that, after the approval of the forest plan, you personally made a round of visits by particularly conflicting areas on this issue, such as the luxury mountain, to reassure the owners, ensuring that the eucalyptus plantations would continue, that the moratorium would not have an immediate effect and that it could be planted in certain circumstances. And I have to tell you that you didn't lie at all, that this is exactly what's happening. Trade unions, groups of ecologists, the Galego Nationalist Block, we have warned of this situation of the boom of the eucalyptus, without until today no one, no political leader of the Rural Environmental Council has publicly gone out saying anything, neither you, Counsellor, nor your general director, nor any other political representative has gone through this problem to advance possible settlement measures. And, of course, if we were wrong thinking, that we are not, or in this case we have to be a little bit, a little bit yes, we would think that this was all about it. It's quite true that it's a very busy way of reaching an increase in the surface of the eucalyptus, if we didn't have enough, but it's also true that it's a formula, the least harmful formula for the public image counseling itself, it's a [...], you pay the round, you don't spend a weight. I listened very carefully yesterday to his appearance in this Chamber to see, among other things, if I had to devote a couple of minutes to a problem which began as a musical and which today has become a cry that even the press wants to hide. But you didn't say anything, you didn't give a clue about the issues we brought here today. If it seems to you, given in perspective, with the announcement, as you did and as you did, it was done, what caused this effect was called. If they worry, because maybe they don't care, of course, then all I'm saying is nonsense, then I'm quiet now because if they don't care and what they want. Well, then, everybody's happy. Are there any exceptional control measures being taken? Is there any suggestion that these plantations are being carried out in agricultural areas, protected areas or leafy areas? Are there any measures being taken to restore the legality in such cases or, not to go back, but to paralyze the actions before such plantations are produced? We didn't listen, I repeat, anything; yesterday he didn't say anything and, like he didn't say anything, we might have to start talking... about disloding counseling and starting to talk about convicence or planning of the Union's own government to make this happen in this way. We, as I said at the outset, are deeply concerned about this issue. Among other things, because we have nothing clear that since your department there is an interest in taking over the problem and acting accordingly. I remind you that I am the Government of this country. We don't understand it, because in all these years they've been practising politics to let go, a policy that has led us to this situation in which we are now. Today they couldn't plant more eucalyptals, there was an effective forest plan that said they couldn't plant. There were, there are hundreds of files of sanctions open, much less than there should be in any case, without having returned the legality in any of these cases, what would now change with this moratorium? In this context, in addition, the perfect storm is given: it rises the price of the paper folder; it increases the prices of the tonne; the nurseries, up to the top, cannot serve plants, are collecting charges in advance because they cannot serve the plant that is claimed to them. A country lying in the eucalyptus plantation and in the coniferous cuts that woodlanders don't attend either. This is the situation we have today. And my question is whether they've planned to lead the solution or they think they're still part of the problem. For now, more and more thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u182	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. José González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Albert, listening to your intervention, it seems that the plea to be presented yesterday at twelve o'clock in the evening, and we did not know, when I had my appearance, that today, precisely, we were going to talk about this subject; and also telling him that I think the appearance... I apologize if it was too long, but in fact, we dealt with many subjects of great importance, we knew that today we were going to have this interrogation here. I must begin my intervention, of course, by showing my astonishment at the harsh welcome he had between the opposition and, in particular, in the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, this initiative. And they're telling us about legislative inconsistencies. I'll try to clarify them, as I always do, but nothing speaks of the incoherence of their exhibitions. Look, since I've been in this Parliament -- the year 2016 -- I've counted five, six, seven initiatives from your opposition group and opposition groups on which this measure is requested, the moratorium. I'm going to give you a data: December 1, 2020, PNL number 6,000 of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, point 1: "The Council of Galicia is holding a moratorium on eucalyptus nites plantations." You're welcome, Mrs. Albert. And yet above all we're talking about a species, when we're determining a temporary suspension of the new eucalyptus plantations. Let us also remember that the forestry plan, Mrs Albert, is not something that is approved by Parliament, is a decree by the Galician Council that was voluntarily brought here; that is, by fulfilling a recommendation from the committee, which at the time has been brought here, but is not acceptable to this Parliament. But in any case, you voted in your motion for a resolution against this moratorium on the eucalyptus. But, well, let's be ordered, let's try to answer the questions of interpellation. I think there's little concern on the part of the Galego Nationalist Block to listen and join efforts when it comes to talking about issues that come from the People's Party, in this case, sustainable and orderly development of our mountain. I can't find it either, nor did I find it at that time, no sign of attention as to Galician Forest Plan, read it and see exactly what it brings there. There is this habit or habit of doing opposition politics and, in this case, in our opinion, there are no arguments. And let's talk about arguments. We, last March, presented the Galician Forest Plan, which, as you all know, is a long-term planning tool for our mountain, 2021-2040, and I would like to remind Mrs. Albert that the 1992 forest plan does not set legal regulations for limiting amounts of planting, but rather collects, as it cannot be otherwise, in long-term planning, guidance. If there was an orientation and if it is not done, there is no illegality, but there is obviously a failure of that orientation. Just like now, the Forest Plan can only collect directions. It's true that the magnitude of the forest sector -- 2 million hectares, a forest sector with a tremendous economic activity and an impact also on the extraordinary Greek countryside -- has a lot of strengths, but it also has weaknesses, and here we should all be working, precisely, to deal with those weaknesses. But it's also true that there's a diagnosis of the mountain, of our mountain, of the forest sector, which is in line with the sector. And when we talk about the sector, we don't talk about a company or a multinational, it's consensual and talked to those who represent the sector on the Forest Council. And we can't see that this forest plan is born of consensus and listening to the sector. There is a first diagnosis, carried out by the working group that wrote the guidelines of the plan, which provides that eucalyptus plantations should not continue to increase and technical criteria and standards should be established to limit their expansion. There is a recommendation, within the Parliamentary Commission of 2018 -- that of the fires of October 2017 -- the number 14, which transfers the same position to the eucalyptus. Where is this confrontation or controversy? That diagnosis that led us to put in place a precise administrative control, to avoid increasing eucalyptus plantations, by the bet we have, and to collect in the Forest Plan, a multifunctional, diverse and sustainable mountain that generates wealth and jobs. And to the thread, on this first shift, about the first of the issues they expose, I have to move that there is no tangible evidence of an effect called. You alluded to the whole territory, and I'd like to see if in your reply you can clarify whether, indeed, you are filling with eucalyptus the area where you are, because I don't think there's any problem there. What if I can move, in the wake of that matter of effect called, is that we find ourselves in spring and that eucalyptus plantations, like any other tree species, are made between March and April, is an ordinary time to make new plantations. And so it's obvious that these happen. But, look, every year they cut into Galicia ten million cubic meters, and, of that, almost six million cubic meters are eucalyptus. Hey! Those eucalyptuses, if they're in areas that are legal, of course they can be replanted; when they're cut, they're replanted. So, with the data we have, if you can do the numbers, every year they're cutting off in Galicia about 20,000 hectares of eucalyptus. If we take into account that in 2020, at the time of the largest planting, which was March and April, we were all confined and could hardly be planted, because we have much of the explanation here. I repeat, we are at the time of the year when eucalyptus is planted and in Galicia much eucalyptus is planted from the areas where it is being cut and, in addition, in 2020 it is possible to plant much less than normally planted. As regards the times of processing, the entry into force as a provision of the future law on the recovery of Galician land, we, of course, present it as an amendment and we understand that there is a deadline, and if we all agree on the work we are doing in dictate the law will be passed in May. We're talking -- as we say -- about a temporary regulation, actually, until December 31, 2025. There were no other versions, but the only version is that it is written and that it takes control, first, for the temporary suspension of new plantations and, second, as far as replantations are concerned, obviously, but this does not have to say the moratorium, only one can do in those places where it is lawful to do it, and we all know that we are, say, there is a very intense legislation referring to sites where eucalyptus can be planted in Galicia. In any case, if there are illegal plantations, of course, it's the function -- and I don't doubt that we will do it and that we do it -- the Board denounces them. On the third issue, I have to say that the Galician Council is always watching -- in this case, the Rural Council -- for any action that violates legality. You were talking about hundreds of complaints, I give you the data: since 2016 we have been processed in the legal services of the territorial heads of the Rural Council more than 1,700 sanctioning files, and, most importantly, more than 7,400 alerts. What do those glimpses do? That people take away without needing to get to the sanctions. I think we will all agree that it is convenient for us not to cause prejudice, beyond that they actually have to take what is illegal. We're talking about an action that, far from diminishing this control, will be reinforced, because the implementation of the moratorium will also lead to a special plan to control new plantations that will ensure compliance with the approved temporary suspension. Look, there's nothing in the photo of the Greek mountain with the continuous forest inventory. So that's going to allow them to have much more suitable checking mechanisms than at the moment. As I said -- and it seems to me that this is very relevant -- any plantation that, with respect to the current legal framework, is allowed will continue to be allowed with the moratorium, because the moratorium refers only to new surfaces. But if you're now planting in places where it's illegal, of course that's denouncing, and we're going to work, precisely, so that those plantations can't or can't continue to be done or not maintained. Therefore, I think there is no debate, ladies and gentlemen, as to accusing the Board of what we are circumventing or allowing acts outside the law. And finally -- and already to finish, and answering the fourth question they ask -- I also tell you that, in your case and how I just moved, we will restore legality, when necessary, as always done. Look, aside from all this, and understanding that if you were ruling, it would be the first steps that you've decided, and instead of being working among all of you to see how we fit the best possible for that effect, we, if we move it, are going to continue working on the achievement of a multifunctional mountain in its diversification and sustainability. We will continue to give importance to what it really has, neither to stories nor to wishes, but to the management and management of the mountain. We're going to fight, no doubt, with the law of recovery, abandonment, we're going to try to improve the management and productivity of existing masses, we're going to reinforce -- as I just moved -- administrative control to verify compliance with the limitations and restrictions on new plantations, and we're always going to advocate for the multifunctionality and biodiversity of our mountain. They are targets that are collected in specific lines of action, with solid arguments and with sufficient budget; of course, also with the EAFRD, which can also be used for the forest sector. In all this, of course, and I can assure you, the German Government will continue to work very hard. Nothing else for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u184	Thank you, Counselor. Replica roll. Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u185	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not known to you that hundreds of plantations are being produced, both in areas where it can be planted until today and in areas where it cannot be planted. If it doesn't show you, really, look for another job, because you're the most responsible forest sector in this country. [[Applause]] How are you not going to tell him? Of course it's up to him! Go meet him and look the other way. That's why I'm telling you that we have to start talking about abandonment and start talking about convolence and promotion by the Rural Environment Council of this situation. We're at plant time, of course, even today there was news, I'm pretty sure you read it because you have some press offices that work very well, and I'm sure that in the mornings they make your corresponding file. I read some to her, in case she didn't have time to read them: Luís Díaz Casadiego, maker of Jupiter, Lugo: "Everyone wants to cut already to get rid of the pine, plant eucalyptus, but we see ourselves without time and we even had to give up lots." Miguel Vázquez, Madeirista de Souto, Lugo: "You see, especially in the interior of Lugo, a boom where the forest sector is lying in the coniferous cutters, we're all cutting down pine because the owners want to make quick eucalyptus plantations." Oscar Piñón, Madeirista de Ortigueira, La Coruña: "False plant because several factors have joined together, we are now in the middle of planting season and also the main factor is the announcement of the moratorium." Even Isabel Álvarez, president of the Galician Forest Livestock Association, who says that in her particular case, because she is from Ourense, she never trades the eucalyptus, but that there is so much shortage, because of this called effect, that they are receiving calls from all over the country asking them to plant because in the rest of the province of Greece they do not have. In just one week, from April 8th to 13th, the ecologicalist association Adega has registered 34 complaints of illegal plantations, plantations in places where eucalyptus cannot be planted because they are leafy spaces, agricultural spaces and spaces protected by the Natura Network. 72,2 % of them in the province of Lugo; 18,2 % in the Coruña and 9,1 % in Pontevedra. It's true that in Ourense province, so far -- to see what happens with nites from here to the future -- but for the time being, we don't have this problem. Obviously, of course!, it increases more where it is less covered by eucalyptus, which in this case is in the province of Lugo, which still had some gap, because in the Coruña and Pontevedra were already quite saturated. 32.4% of these warnings are autochthonous tree cuts for subsequent eucalyptus planting, don't they? Isn't this the situation in the districts of the Rural Council? How are you not going to show up? You just have to look at it, you're active in social networks, if you get to me, if you get to the Galego Nationalist Block, you, who always like to have a much wider contact with the whole sector, like you won't know? They don't care. I just got excited, I had a lot of interest in listening to your intervention today, and the truth is, for now, I don't know what you're going to say in the reply, but I'm pretty scared. I have... I could tell you, I'm not gonna do it, but I'm here... in fact, I'm telling you that we're going to ask in writing for access to the files. I have here sanctions files started in 2014 and some of them have been put economic sanctions, but the plantations are still there, they're still there, there are plantations on the Primitive Way, a carballo stem on Begonte to put eucalyptus, eucalyptus plantation on a meadow of more than 5 hectares in 2015, there are the eucalyptus, and I could follow, I have dozens of examples. As I have dozens, you, as I said before, have more than 1,000, but plantations are still there. I'd like you to tell me in the second round that percentage of these files end up with a repositioning of legality, beyond economic sanctions. How many of these files do you make a cut and ask for the recovery of legality before the cutting cycle of that wood, before you finish that cut cycle? I asked you a lot of questions and I'd like you to answer some of them, because until now you haven't answered them. We've told you that the eucalyptus situation has a very complicated inertia and you know it. And that inertia doesn't get rid of itself, it doesn't just disappear with cutters polygons, for example, which can be a good initiative, but it doesn't solve the problem of eucalyptus. If now the continuous inventory of Greek gives us a figure, I don't know, of 600,000 hectares, of 700,000 hectares, of 500,000 hectares, of eucalyptus, to this day in Galicia, what are we going to do with that data? Are you going to look like a barbarity because you 20 years ago -- 30 years ago -- they said there had to be 235,000 hectares and they're going to try to go back or they're going to be worth everything in this country? I thought I was going to give at least some picture of concern about what's going on in this country, because it's obvious that society is concerned. You made the headlines in the press, talking about the moratorium, the moratorium is very good, I asked you if it seems to you that the way to announce it was appropriate, if the exceptions that contain that moratorium seem to you that they are sufficient to prevent the rise of the surface of eucalyptus in this country. If it's real interest to make a moratorium, and not just a moratorium, for reducing the surface of eucalyptus, because you've been talking and talking here now again about multifunctional, biodiverse mountain, with different... and in the end we have a lot of monoculture. And as I know you and I know that, and what I ask you, and what we ask you about this interpellation, is if you've thought of making another kind of country, giving our lot another possibility beyond words and press releases, which are very good, but which have to be accompanied by initiatives that serve something. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u186	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. Wait, wait, wait, wait... Shut up, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u187	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Albert, it makes it very difficult to debate when you already have the default answer, because I -- it's safe and recorded -- I answered the four questions that were raised in the inquiry. If you tell me now that, in addition, I have to clarify 2,400 sanctioning files, 7,400 alerts, that percentage of them have assumed the removal of tree species, because you don't worry that as soon as you have the data I'm sure to transfer them. And it also makes it very difficult to debate when we talk here about what could be 500, 600 or 700,000 hectares, or a million, already put, because, in all, it doesn't matter. You've also seen that, without continuous forest inventory, Mrs. Albert, you've put on the table that would have to remove 200,000 hectares, already to begin with. Not to be overlooked that 200,000 acres are 2,000 million euros of money in the mountains, which are from all the Greeks and the Greeks. I think this subject should be treated with something more delicate, to the point that, by responsibility, we should be talking, precisely, about these things in the processing we are doing of the law, to improve, if necessary, the moratorium, because I also ask you, because they ask me questions, and now I also explain to you what you did to me... yes, but I also ask you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see, the Block agrees... well, I, as far as I know, as far as I know, ladies, here I have freedom to expose what I think, and you should listen, as I listened carefully. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I ask whether or not the Galician Nationalist Block is in favour of a moratorium on new plantations. We'll have to solve more things, but this is a first step, right? That's what I'd like you to answer, I can't do interpellations, but if you're right to tell me outside the House or, at least, tell me when you're not here moving and so on, whether you're in favor of the moratorium, because I think it's something -- we said -- it's a first starting point. We also talk about the fact that what is already planted has to respect the prevailing legality, and therefore the exceptions I would also like... and I encourage everyone who is not in the Commission to read the moratorium as it is. Where are those exceptions, Mrs. Albert, where are they? What you're talking about is that a 1,000-square-foot estate that's in the middle of pastures, and that we want to move it to give you facilities, that we can take it to the mountain area with 1,200 square-metres, and that's what you're going to do is generate that everything fills with eucalyptus... Man, I think it's a little hard to understand. But let's put this moratorium in context. Who also made this moratorium? He made it Asturias, there's a government in Portugal who did it, too. Let's think about how the Government of Portugal did. He did so, Mrs. Albert, with a decree of law, almost eight months since he announced that he would decree the moratorium until he passed the decree of law. Well, look for the data because I took it... by the way, thanks for the statement you made from my press office, but it's exactly who gave me that data. So we did, besides, a law, it had to be something that would give legal guarantees, because here we're talking about important issues that have to do with the owners' rights. I think there's no doubt that the forest plan clearly says where it wants to go, and among all of us we'll have to do the job so that this forest plan is not wet paper, but make its performance. We bet, as the plan sets out, for a green transition, for biodiversity, for climate neutrality and responsible consumption, and we do it in a consistent way with the sector, and you know that at the Forest Council this was perfectly talked to everyone, and there was no doubt. Then each one makes his or her own determinations of what you want to do or how you want to move. But at that moment, which was in the technical field, to express itself, no one expressed himself against. By the way, against guidelines that were also supported by everyone. Look, there's a reality: that the mountain, in addition to fulfilling the environmental function and the social function, also performs an economic function, and we can't see that the eucalyptus yields 80,000 families, which we can't be talking about here about big owners because, precisely, that's the defense that gives it minifundism; 200 million euros of wood on foot, 60% of what is being cut into Galicia is eucalyptus. We want more things to be cut off and that is why we want to redirect, within the work we are doing, precisely, the possibility that in the good pine areas in Galicia or of leafy plants and pine trees. With which, along with the moratorium -- and we're already working on this with the sector -- we're going to put in place a plan to encourage both the planting of green trees and the planting of pine trees, with the aim of it -- although, if you want, just, as I told you yesterday, for an economic matter -- that it's much more intelligent to have diversified the mountain from the economic point of view than to be betting for a single species. Ultimately, the temporary suspension, as I tell you, is planted as a provision that is collected with sufficient legal certainty through a law. At this moment, of course, plantations are being produced, I think I've already argued it before. They don't take me by the letter the data of 20,000 hectares, but it's out of the average yield of what's being cut every year, and those people, if you plant it's legal, then after the moratorium you'll be able to keep planting. So there's a lot of replantation, Mrs. Albert, this can't be said to be no. You can say it's all new plantations, but it's true that there are a lot of people who, every year they cut, then they replant, because they're dedicating these lands to the eucalyptus. I also remind you that in the year 2020, at the time of planting in March and April, we were confined, and there were many difficulties to do so. I'd just finish, because I'd like to highlight it, with which the continuous forest inventory remains, that we're going to have at the end of this year or the beginning of what's coming, and then we can start talking about real data. By the way, a demand that moves and causes the plan to be incomplete, and it was we who launched the inventory thanks, among other things, to the contributions of the Socialist Party when it voted in favour of the Commission's dictation. And I want to finish with a memory: we're in the process of amendments. This is an amendment to the law of recovery, if there is any difficulty and if they believe in the moratorium, we can still improve their drafting through the way of transactions. What this interpeleration shows, Bloc lords -- and I'm going to let you tell them -- is that after so many years they still don't understand Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u188	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the fit in the legal framework of the State of the amendment of Law 8/2008, of 10 July, of health of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u189	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Vice President. Every time we talk about this subject you tell me someone else, I think there are already five people who talk about it. I'm delighted, because at least we have different opinions, as you think something different depending on the day too! It's okay. [[Laughter]] Look, allow me... if we're still starting, man, it's almost a joke, man, it's not bad for me either, eh!, that's five o'clock Wednesday afternoon, man, it's okay. We're taking her; come on, there's little left. Mr. Rueda, I'm going to do something that's uneducated on my part -- but allow me -- that's self-incentive. That, normally, is kind of ugly, but I don't think it's going to go wrong in this matter. As you do not normally participate in Commission 5a, I give you a debate on February 11 this year with regard to the amendment of the Health Act. And I quote: "The intention of this law is not to manage the pandemic, the intention is to feel invested in absolute power, and -- and this is the important part -- to become the victim when it says it's not viable." Sometimes the rulers pretend to be predictable, and in some matters that's fine, the problem is when you're predictable in the meantime, knowing that what you're going to do is set up a problem. Because if one is able to predict it's going to set up a problem, and then it only meets the perspectives, bad thing. And this is what happens with this law, with Mr Feijóo, and with him dragging the whole Government, and indeed with this whole Parliament, which is the only objective with this health law that you have promoted without wanting to listen to anyone in a rather strange way to parliamentary mechanisms, legal but strange. The only thing they've done is to get us all into a problem, and finally to show that you care about institutions and the state relatively little, and that, of course, they quite prioritize the intention that you have to build this story that there is here a president who is more handsome, taller, more fantastic and first against everything. Today we know some of those things he says, like the vaccination certificate. But at last... Against all this, the important thing is that we have a pandemic -- it's over a year and it's peak -- and you're in this theater frivolity, because -- I'm going to repeat it -- this is almost two months ago that we said it was meant to be the victim when it was said that this law is not viable. And now what? And now what? Because you've assumed, too, right, that this is the first autonomous law. Well, if they want because they call it law, but regulations to manage the measures to be taken with the pandemic, they took many communities before Galicia. If it's not a career either, I mean, but what happens is to pretend about something that isn't. Anyway... But now what? The year and peak after the pandemic started, we still don't have any legislation that you say is essential -- they started eight months later, they could start before -- but the reality is that it doesn't solve anything. We've already said that I wasn't going to solve anything, and the truth is we didn't want to be so greedy, but you make it very easy when they do things to do. There are autonomous communities that have moved forward, not Galicia. You stayed in that cold theater to bring this to Congress, and you were alone, to bring it to Parliament and you were alone, we told you that this law was not viable, it doesn't seem like it was going to be at all. And we continue in the same, and you, far from assuming that you may have a controversial intention with the question, because you are on this question of feeling the victims, which is what you like because the debate this consists in that Mr. Feijóo can say I am very good but they do not leave me. But that doesn't solve anything from the pandemic, Mr. Rueda, nothing, nothing. There's no one who's getting help before, there's no one who's getting a faster vaccine, there's no one who's not getting infected for it. The only thing that is happening here is that Mr. Feijóo may have more pages of newspapers saying that he is the great savior, the great white hope of the West, but that everyone is against him. Soon the blame will be, I don't know, from Superman too, who's coming from Crypton to fuck Feijóo. In the end, it's a matter of finding guilty. But it's time for them to tell Mr. Feijóo to stop being a watchmaker, because you can't hold a system like this in which we're all pending the whole day on which is the occurrence to feel better. You've announced several things, they probably don't tell the truth by chance. In the end, today you said again Mr. Feijóo, this morning, that we were going to be the first autonomous community to have the certificate to vaccinate. I taught one here, from February, from Castile and León, a vaccine certificate already issued. You don't care about this. The truth is a relative thing for you, this... the truth, what is the truth? They could almost be shaksperians. What about the law we do? Because you insist that we're the first to do things -- that's not true -- because you insist that they make a law that they're going to discuss. By the way, I don't discuss anything but the Council of State. Mr. Puy says it's not true, I told Mr. Puy the last time, you did the first debate of this law here and then you didn't repeat it. I understand you don't trust Mr. Rueda, to see... between you and me, Mr. Puy, I don't trust Mr. Rueda much either, but, well, I mean, that's what you have to be doing in the debate, and I think you have to respect him and let him out here talking. [[Laughter]] I think, uh, let's go!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u191	He's making allusions, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u192	Yes, yes, yes, I am courteous and Mr. Puy calls me and I confess to him for courtesy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u193	You're making allusions, and then you're not surprised that they ask for the word, and then you know that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u194	I wouldn't be surprised. I wouldn't even be surprised if you gave it to me. Look at that!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u195	As I give it to you when it's appropriate, it's my duty to comply with the Rules of Procedure. I won't count the time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u196	May I, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u197	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u198	Thank you very much, at last... And we were saying this morning, Mr. Rueda, we were saying this morning, Mr. Counsellor, besides, this morning -- or yesterday, sorry -- said the problem with this law is that they have no mechanisms to shorten the pandemic resolution. It's funny, because you don't ask for mechanisms to build a true Galaga Public Health Agency, to provide more resources. They don't talk about mechanisms to be able to hire more extraordinaryly personally for the reinforcement of vaccination, they don't ask for mechanisms to participate in some decisions, because the Government of the State already empowers them in reality, they don't ask for mechanisms to gather all institutions. I remind you that you had met at CECOP and stopped meeting just when the elections came, by chance, for sure. They don't ask for mechanisms for that, you talk about mechanisms, but they don't explain why. We're going to talk about mechanisms, whether it was necessary or not a law like this. May of last year: "Torah, Ayuso and Feijóo refuse to extend the state of alarm." Torah, Ayuso and Feijóo, equipment, eh! October: "Feijó sees a state of alarm that loads consumption at Christmas and closes Holy Week." "He criticized the disproportionate use of the alarm state, because there is ordinary legislation to unscale it." There's ordinary legislation, Mr. Feijóo said, when he was supporting the state of alarm all over the country but you. Now it's announced that the alarm state will end, and what does Mr. Feijóo do? Request alarm status, because there is no legislation to do so, as counsellor said. I'm going to read again: "I've criticised the disproportionate use of alarm status, because there's ordinary legislation to unscale." But now he says there are no tools. We've already discovered that the mind is Feijóo, but do you explain to me today's Feijóo or last year's May? Because it is important to know the criteria, because it is important to have a criterion. I don't say... you pretend to be the first, I let them be the second, or the third or the first! But they're the first to have at least one criterion, to see if it's possible, and tell us if they're in agreement with the state of alarm because they allow the mechanisms, if they're against because they're disproportionate, or whether they're able to have any criteria more than discuss what others say. Because in the end -- and I come back to the beginning of this initiative -- this health law that we have before us has to deal with the will to deal with. Because politicians who don't know how to make politics are going to fight all day, and that's what this government does, to confront. What did you solve with this law? That's the question, what did you solve about the pandemic? I've been thinking about this question for months, Mr. Rueda, you know what's going on, I can't find any explanation. Is the pandemic better now with this law? Are they able to do something they didn't do before? No, no, no, no. What do we propose? We propose that you change the law in those issues that you are telling them are not viable, so that we can have, as we said from the beginning, when you processed this procedure, which was natural, rational, facing a reform to have a sanctioning regulation, if possible. To have some measures that would allow greater flexibility in the system, to provide the councils with some administrative mechanisms to be able to implement the sanctions, to be able to coordinate those who made some competent decisions because they were difficult for some time and it was understandable that the Government of the Union had in this question doubts about who had to make the decisions, who had to operate in some way. All this is natural, you can correct that question, you can correct those issues of the law that are nothing rational, that you're telling them that they may be unconstitutional -- I don't know but that they may be -- and that they can do it to reform whatever is needed to improve the management of the pandemic. Already ahead, saving you to deploy things like those that you had that were inexorable, we're going to be in favor of because we understand the difficulty of the situation. So what do we propose? Let them make that reform, negotiate it, request a negotiation, a bilateral route with the State. That they resolve without having to wait to see who's more handsome in the Constitution, to see who's got more friends or to see who's holding on to that game of the chicken you know; and that they don't get the state through this because people aren't for these frivolities. So they reform things that tell them they're not viable, cambies, retreat, modify them, whatever they need. Enter into the law those matters that are important, we discuss it, we approve it and that it can work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u200	...because that's what we're all going to be. But by the way, you don't play a game to be constantly facing, because that's what you'll like very much, but it doesn't solve the problem to anyone, and you're looking for problems and the question is that you need to find solutions and you're not in it, to see if at least through this they understand that it's not about being more handsome but about solving the problems of people who are going through it much worse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u201	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u202	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u203	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by Vice-President Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Mr Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, look what's going on for years now and you don't get over it, what nerves are always getting when you see that you're not coming to answer from the government who you think needs to be asked to answer or who has to be according to your decisions! This is a united government, Mr. Torrado, you've spent four years with a bigober, with a trigoboerno, I don't know anymore that, and you don't understand that this is a united government that has one proposal, a single unit of action, that doesn't question its leader; ultimately, a government that governs and devotes itself to these things. And as nervous as they get, this government, whatever it says, eats all the limbs, and I see it keeps getting nervous now that when I was in the gallery, but I ask it to respect my use of the word. Because, man, if we're going to have a debate, of course, we can come in, and I'm telling you I have all to win. I appreciate it... by the way, I don't know whether to take as a pyrope that I don't deserve all the trust in the world; to me you do, it's very predictable. And, therefore, when there's nothing to say the best defense is a good attack, and I understand that, after the central government's action with respect to the unconstitutionality resource announced and presented with all urgency -- I'd like you to have that urgency for other things -- the best you can do and the only one, as always, is to say "yes, good" to the central government, try to wash away the shames here, and try to explain the inexplicable. And the inexplicable thing is that here was a resource of unconstitutionality for no reason, with all urgency and no argumentation; and, yes, without notice. Mr. Torrado, do not doubt the loyalty of this Government. I think we have shown ourselves to be left alone that if we are characterized for something it is to try to comply with the Constitution, to understand that the Constitution is the guarantor of the unity of our State, and that in that framework we should all move. And so that's what we're trying to do with that amendment of the Health Act, so don't be wrong there. I guess that won't make you doubt it. And what we want to do is to cover a vacuum that actually existed and without any doubt; it is said by the State Council itself. I guess you'd read it out -- just like I did -- I'm sure it would, the State Council dictate it. Another thing is that later, listening to it, because I have doubts that I understood it as I understood it, or as everyone understood it, and all the lawyers; that you are not jurist and therefore have no reason to, but I suppose you would ask for advice. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And any jury would tell him that the Council of State clearly says that the Government has not done its homework and that what it had to have done for all the time that Mr. Sánchez had to do to do so is precisely what he has not done. Look, this won't -- you've repeated it many times -- if you're the prettiest, the prettiest, the prettiest, the most prominent, you're left with your boss in Madrid for that. We don't dedicate ourselves here... this, the mirror that doesn't return the distorted image. [[Murmurs.]] Here's all the opposite. You have that bad conscience to say that this is about saying that this is about seeing who the most handsome is, I think that that trophy already has it that we all have in our head, you too but you don't want to say it. This is about being the most useful and governing, because you have given us that responsibility, which the autonomous communities are taking! If they have already done so as soon as the first alarm state has collapsed, and they want to do it again. And, therefore, since you are committed to it at least what we ask are the instruments. Look, it wouldn't be for times that we said this situation wasn't the most desirable, it wouldn't be because your boss, really, Mr. Sánchez, said at the Congress of Deputies, on May 20, -- it's almost a year ago -- : "What we will do, gentlemen, is plan; what we will do, gentlemen, is start to analyze and debate with all of you, to negotiate the modification of different laws to ensure proper co-governance. These reforms are necessary, these reforms will be very concrete and for a single purpose, which I have told them earlier: managing the follow-up of the pandemic once the state of alarm rises. Those laws that we will analyze will basically be sanitary." Tell me, Mr. Torrado, what are those laws that you have analyzed, what are those laws that have spoken to all the autonomous communities responsible for day-to-day management and ultimately modifying them. What did you say? What's the deal? What's planned? Absolutely nothing! They let a year go by and they didn't do anything. [[Applause]] And, of course, Mr Sánchez sees himself in the face of those shames and I suppose he is now giving you these messages: defend him in every Parliament. [[Applause]] And, of course, in Galicia, which moved, which insisted on all the conferences of presidents that Mr. Sánchez was doing every Sunday during the first phase of the pandemic. At the president's conference I was present in San Millán de la Cogolla, what exactly did you ask? In the agreement of the Board of Governors, which sent, before the inaction of the Government, a bill of health for the Government to take note and make it known to all of Spain, which is what we asked for. The silence by answer, absolutely nothing. Mr. Sánchez's orders... assuming that... by forgetting what Mr. Sánchez said in May, Mr. Sánchez in May 2020, Mr. Sánchez in April 2021... says that there is no law to do, exactly the opposite of what he said; and that which I read to him is in the Journal of Sessions, you can't contradict it, or I hope so. And now he says all the opposite, that there is no law to do; that is, there must be to do and talk about a lot of laws and now there is no need to talk about any law, and what to do is to say that autonomous communities have their own instruments. What are we talking about? What about changing laws? What about a single legislation? That there's tools left to spare. But what are we left with, when only Galicia wanted is to end that legal vacuum. But you're not aware, -- I insist -- give you a rereading, a rethinking of the state council's dictates, that what you say... doesn't say much less that our law is anti-constitutional, it doesn't say that. You, that is, Mr. Caballero, in the question to the president of the morning, would rise up -- you like it a lot, you've already done it with the drug catalog and you've got your ass in the air absolutely -- they said the same thing they're saying now, that everything is anti-constitutional. You're judges, you understand everything, you understand the Constitution, you understand everything; what you don't understand is to read what the Council of State dictates, for what we're having right now on the table. And it says that the problem is not the content of the Greek law, that in its aspects, at least in which it analyses, it does not violate the Constitution. The problem is, what the state had to do -- and that's why it's not clear that an autonomous community can do that -- is regulate a totally generalized organic law -- as was the organic law of 1986, which was not prepared, logically, already everybody understands, for a pandemic situation like the one we're living -- and what they had to do was develop it so that then autonomous communities could do their work. And that's what we asked the state from the beginning, that they had legislated, that they had simply fulfilled the word Mr. Sánchez was saying that he was going to do it and that he had done it. Months and months waiting. But, of course, as the virus was overcome, as all of this had already happened, as we had not to worry, therefore, there was no reason to work, there was no need to legislate. And, oh, surprise!, the virus follows between us and the government again takes him with shame in the air, to the central government. And, of course, as it doesn't give you time, as it doesn't suit you -- I don't know if it's a matter of persistence, ignorance, I don't know what -- because it turns out that as you didn't do anything, oh!, anyone who dares to act is better, so that we don't get any more shames and so we don't get any more evidence of it, try not to go ahead. And that's what happened to the German law, nothing else, and that's what the Council of State dictates, says nothing else. Autonomous communities should be able to legislate once organic law -- and that can only be done by the central government -- develops so that autonomous communities can do their work. And this is the scene where we had to move, and this is what had to happen, and this is what we didn't do. You tell me what our opinion is and what we're going to do. Look, we found ourselves without any dialogue, a year of cross arms, without fulfilling the promises of the President of the Government, Mr. Sánchez. And suddenly we find ourselves that in three weeks, oh, great speed, for that yes!, if you go to Galicia without notice, without telling anything, without warning; say the Council of State itself, which does not understand the urgency of the appeal without speaking to the affected autonomous community. The State Council itself says it doesn't understand that urgency. It's unexplained, you're sure you're justifiably not knowing why you have to justify it, but you've received the order to justify it, to come here to wash away the shames -- to understand us --. And he also says he doesn't understand how they didn't ask for orders prior to their own ministries. Do you know that this appeal is made by your central government without even talking to the Ministry of Health? He gave the Council of State in saying it, read it!, do you have an explanation?, do you have a justification? Well, if you have it, since you're here to defend that performance, I'd like you to tell me. Of course, to divert the attention all is to say that this is done by Mr. Feijóo because if you think the most handsome, the strongest, I don't know that from the Kryptonite... all those, I'm sorry to tell you, within the parliamentary courtesy, you're sandwiches when we're talking about something so serious. Explain to me why this remedy is made without talking to us, why it is set without even asking the Ministry of Health, the competent ministry. Explain to me why those solemn and firm promises -- Session Journal -- have not been fulfilled for a year and now reacts to an autonomous community that only wants legal security. That all you want is precisely to limit and that there are guarantees when you have to make decisions that have to do with the pandemic, that is, that the Greeks and the Greeks move in security. Explain to me why there is all this lack of loyalty from the central government to Galicia, which we only want to dialogue and fix things. I just found out -- and now I suppose, at last -- I want to think and give you the benefit of the doubt, which have enough influence not to be so completely wrong -- because it turns out that, coincident with this interpellation, Mr. Iceta has just announced ten minutes ago that he will finally be dignified, after giving the silence in response to a lot of time, speaking to Galicia on a bilateral commission we ask him to do. Explaining at least and giving us the opportunity to explain why we made that law. Welcome back after announcing the unconstitutional resource. Welcome to you after you don't want to listen to us and act on finished facts, I appreciate it. We'll go there. We'll explain what's going on. We'll ask them to explain why after a year, the pledges to legislate nationally have been breached. And we will ultimately try to give some rationality to all of this and understand that, by making laws among all and by making laws that apply to everyone in a national situation -- the virus doesn't understand borders of autonomous communities -- it's like they do things. Obviously, with a government that left everything in the hands of autonomous communities, which has already told us twenty times that it has conquered the virus, which has already told us twenty times that it had nothing to do; maybe it's nothing simple but of course we're going to try it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u205	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica round, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. It is a merit, it is a merit to be confused about who will appear. Well, I don't care, eh! Well, I'm sorry you don't, but I'm gonna tell you a secret: I don't care, I don't care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if you want to do that a credit, I applaud you. I don't applaud you here because it doesn't fit that applause. The credit is that you showed up. Well, that's very good. Congratulations, Mr. Rueda. He made me very nervous, you said. Well, I'm sorry, but neither. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, you see, it's just that you've been here for 10 minutes despotting a bit against me, with this thing you don't know, you haven't found out because you're not a lawyer, maybe the law isn't about health... well, or so you're the new health spokesperson too, or the counselor or whatever. That you don't know, that they tell you to do things, that you come here to do what they tell you to do. I'm not going to answer that very much either. I'm telling you, from a personal point of view, but it's a personal impression, it has nothing to do with it. I think you're pretty disbelieving to use that kind of argument, but, let's go!, it's a very personal impression too. You see I'm totally nervous, I'm telling you. I'm not the most handsome one either, I actually have a lot left for that, I'll tell you. I don't either, and I don't get nervous either. But the question at the end is, Mr. Rueda, that you haven't answered anything we've raised. He didn't answer anything. He didn't really come here to say what they were going to do, because you consider, consider -- he said here, and Mr. Feijó said it in the press just now -- that they thought they had asked for the bilateral meeting. You know, going out on a press conference saying you'd like a bilateral meeting isn't asking for it, huh? I understand you're used to comfortable media treatment, but it's not asking for it. Maybe you'll argue with us how they asked for it, whether they asked for it or not, whether they did it formally or not. If they did, well done; it doesn't appear, but it's fine. In any case, you said, I'm sorry, but I have to say, the State Government has introduced the unconstitutional remedy without speaking to the Ministry of Health. The State Government has not spoken to the Ministry of Health. I'm not as good a lawyer as you, eh!, I don't know institutional architecture as well as you, who assumed that, I'm going to grant it. But I'd say the Ministry of Health belongs to the State Government, don't listen to me, eh! Don't listen to me. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I, according to you, I don't know, I come here to read what I'm told, what else did he say? He's got to defend himself. I don't know. He's got to wash his face. I'm a little boy for some things, but for others I keep a little dignity. I mean, I don't think it's that kind of debate either because, if it were in the personal plane, Mr. Rueda, that you and I know something more about each other, and we share territory, in the personal plane it's not just to put ourselves in this debate. And I'm not saying that because of the coordination of the territory, but because, as we know each other, we know where each one comes from, because it doesn't have that meaning either. Then it doesn't fit. I ask you, please, to answer me to things: do you think it's good to resolve through negotiation the problems of changing the Health Act or not? Are you going to maintain a frentist attitude or not? Are you going to propose to reformulate, through the bilateral commission, reformulate those articles that markedly have some problem or cause some confrontation and bring them to this House to reformulate them or not? Do you think it is necessary for us, in an amendment to the law, to be able to debate some proposals in this House? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We moved here a few moments ago, but there are many others that the Galician Nationalist Block, from its group, has some, the People's Party has some, we can treat some who face the issue of pandemic, yes or no? Because that's the point. What we're thinking through this interpellation and the following motion is: are we going to deal with the solution of the question among all or are you going to be using this to continue confronting? Because you came here for a minute to fuck with me -- I'm not so important to you, don't worry -- to fuck with me, and nine to dump against Pedro Sanchez. And all right, you can do it, but, well, the evidence is that you have no capacity to do more than that. Therefore, it demonstrates again and again that it deals with its political position on this issue, in general almost the whole pandemic: to argue against the Government of Pedro Sánchez. That's very good, that you can do it, but the question is that we moved you to some other problems, for example, to solve essential issues. And we think it's important to do that. You are now surprised at what Mr. Iceta has said, it is very good, I am glad that the Government of Spain tries to solve the problems of Galicia, because the Council of Galicia does it is to create them. But let's see if it's possible for the Board to side with the problem resolution. We ask them to negotiate, agree to withdraw those articles that are fruit of conflict, reformulate them so that we do not have to attend a debate and a career to see what happens in the Constitution, because it would make no sense and because it would dismantle any attempt to glimpse a minimal capacity of loyalty to this government with respect to the state, and because through it we will be able to solve the problem. Look, if I'm talking to you about the pandemic, you come here and tell me that if I don't know, that if I'm being sent, and if Pedro Sánchez is very bad. And I'm talking to you about the pandemic, the Galician Agency, the possible Galician Public Health Agency, feeding us on better stocks, administering more vaccines... I'm telling you about it, but the demonstration is that you came here to talk about something else. Because your debate is another, Mr Rueda, your debate is another. The pandemic ultimately matters less, and so what we thought is that they think about it. Are they going to do something that can enable us to dialogue and build a legal framework that allows us to cope with the pandemic?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u208	Or are they going to keep fighting and speaking evil of others and insulting others, and trying to make others miss, and that keeps believing they're better? Because we think that's not going to solve anything, you just like it is, you have the chance of doing it. But, in any case, if possible, look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u209	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u210	...get me whatever you want, but see if you can give any answers to the others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u212	Because that debate goes a long way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u213	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u214	But if it's possible to give an answer, much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u215	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Did he have to stop...? Sorry, I didn't understand anything. Did he have to stop? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know, I don't understand anything. I don't know what I had to stop. I don't know I had to stop, I don't understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] At my trial there was nothing, it was a debate in which you had an exchange... well, I'm not going in here, there's freedom of expression, there's no freedom of offense. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I don't think I have to stop anything. Mr. Rueda, your turn to close this interpellation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u216	Lord Torado, don't be so nervous, my God! You say you're not going to take this on your personal subject and, for the five minutes you've had in your intervention, you've been talking to me about personal issues. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah! Thank you. He said that, of the five minutes he had, he's been talking to me about three personal issues. I'm not going to talk about it and the only thing I'm telling you, because you made allusion, I... still have in your party people who think they're prettier than you. I'm glad you're flattered, but I wasn't talking about you exactly, we all know who you're talking about. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And said this, we're going to be a little serious, Mr. Torrado. Look, I don't mean... you... if you took it, because you're sorry, you're the health spokesman and this isn't about lawyers... He's not going to read the papers we have to talk about later in this debate. And in the first he gave the benefit of the doubt, that he read the dictates of the Council of State. In the second I have to tell you that, directly, you haven't read it, you haven't read it. No, because I don't know that the Ministry of Health, as far as you know, -- even those of your group, who didn't have to read the dictate -- that the Ministry of Health is part of the government. So, the State Council, why does it say "this work does not help the way in which in the present case the central government has formed the file"? This says or dictates to me: "It does not appear nor is it known why the views of other ministerial departments have been requested, in particular the competent ministry on the basis of the matter, which would be that of Health, as should have been done." Of course, that's what I'm not saying, say it to me by the Council of State, on which his government was based to then raise the appeal. So it's good to read things to know then why each one makes his own decisions. Just like, of course, you tell me that we want to talk to Mr. Iceta, but the only thing we do is that the president of the board in a press round says he wants to talk, and so things don't happen, you have to ask them. Look, Mr. Torrado, on April 7, -- apart from that, you don't read the teletypes either, because we announced this -- on April 7, I signed a letter, "I formally request the call of the bilateral commission to discuss precisely this subject." Mr. Torrado, therefore, how can you come here to say that we don't do things right because we ask for things around the press and not how to do them? Of course, it is very difficult to have a serious debate with this approach. Home!, I believe that the first thing must be to have things, to know what has been done, to know what the dictates on which resources are based in order to have a serious debate. Of course, if you don't know that -- and I'm sorry to tell you, you're going to take it as a personal thing, but you take as a personal thing everything you don't like to say from this rostrum, I know again -- but I have to tell you that, of course!, that we want to confront and that in the account that you ride where a Government of the Council of Galicia, legitimately, with its parliamentary group, pose a legislative initiative where, following all the proceedings, with all the favors of the Juridical Counsel, and speaking -- I can say -- with many experts on this matter, and after waiting for months and months to something as simple as a government president who said at parliamentary headquarters, at the Congress of the Deputies -- it's report in the Journal of Sessions -- that would do what he did after he was blatantly fulfilling, trusting in that word we didn't make a law and at last we saw that there was no other remedy that made it. And that you say that, by passing that law, and then the Government comes, without warning, without speaking to us, without anything, at a good time, Mr. Iceta -- welcome to be -- but after not consulting us for anything, nor knowing why they pose this resort of unconstitutionality, that you come to say that the attacker is the Government, that means that either he doesn't understand anything or he has a lot of faces. And I can't tell you otherwise, Mr. Torrado, one of the two things. Because if you don't explain it? That is, it turns out that we make a law, the government unannounces without notice, with no minimum of institutional loyalty -- now it's seen that they rectify and at least they're going to propose that bilateral commission -- and the aggressor is the Government, it's not us. That all we do, I tell you, is act when we see that an alarm state is going to be lifted without speaking to us or to another autonomous community and that we are going to see ourselves -- as it is said, so that we understand ourselves -- in balls from a legal point of view, that we have no instrument, that we have nothing. And we say it and we tell it all the autonomous communities. By the way, I gave it to you -- you said it in the debate of this law -- and I'm going to read it textually too, I suppose that it will be agreed, because you're the author: that it's surprising that we have a question about fundamental rights and public freedoms talking about this law, and that one can be changed by a proposal that brings here a parliamentary group to an autonomic parliament, that this was Bolivarian. Do you know who just did the same thing? The Socialist Party in the Basque Parliament, you do that by chance, you do that by chance. And I understand them. [[Applause]] Man!, just as you tell me we don't ask Mr. Iceta to call the bilateral commission, you will deny me this, with the same foundation and the same fidelity to the truth. But that's the way it is. And I understand them because they also trusted them, because we talked to them and also trusted that Mr. Sánchez would keep his word and didn't do it. So, Mr. Torrado, we want to have legal certainty in order to be able to act. Unfortunately, the pandemic will follow, it won't disappear, we won't beat the virus, as Mr. Sánchez told us so many times, every day. So what we want is instruments, we want security and we want to do things right. If the government acts, if the government talks to us, we'll talk. If the Government gives us silence in response, it does not speak and acts without any kind of interlocution, since then the Union of Galicia will defend the people of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u217	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, Mr. Puy, I understand you're asking for your word for previous allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u218	Indeed, by Article 76.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u219	Yes, yes, of course, of course, not for anything else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u220	It's just that there are things that are of particular importance and that one must not let go. What is said in a very sensible way is that it's 5:00 p.m., that doesn't mean we're dealing with less serious issues, but we can do it in a relaxed way. And I remember, when I entered the House, when I was a new Member, that a member of the Socialist Group approached me to ask me for a favor from the People's Group. And what he said to me, because he didn't know me personally, he said this phrase that I stood here a little bit marked in my head, which was, "Look, you don't know me, but you know Games, and Games you know it's fiendish. Well, I'm like Thursdays, too. It is true that our leader, Patxi Vázquez, is not as reliable as I am as Thursdays, I am to be trusted." Well, I finally trusted him, in fact, he was like Xocas, he was trustworthy. What I mean by this is that there are groups that have an institutional culture where people don't trust each other. [[Interruptions.]] Fortunately, in the People's Group we not only trust Mr. Wheel of myself and myself of Mr. Wheel of the People's Group but trust the whole People's Group, you have no less doubt, nor try to introduce divisional factors into a group that is very close, and that is why it has 42 seats and not 14. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u221	Allusions have as much time as they have, you know. No, no, but the allusion I think is also met in this case, the answer. Because you came in questioning the government for whom you answered him and answered him well in that case, the answer, I don't put myself in it. Well, I'm going to the question. Let's go to questions to the Government. Question by Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members, by Mr P. Popular de Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of Greece of the unconstitutional remedy announced by the Central Government against Law 8/2021 of 25 February, amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u222	A lot of gases, Mr. President. Today is indeed April 14th. I, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, want to join the party, the celebration, just as the Spaniards joined the party of democracy in the year 14. Because what we celebrate today, indeed, are democratic values, are the values that we all share, and not, of course, other things. And that's why we do it with all seriousness... no, we don't, of course, laugh at the celebration of the democracy that I submitted on April 14, as was also a moment of democracy the Spanish transition. No, we have certainly been reminded that a socialist leader at this political stage openly tells the republic to live! What we have to say is, we believe that what we have to say is democracy, which represents the republican Constitution and the Spanish Constitution! [[Applause]] And I say this because there is, in relation to the question -- that I go to it, of course -- there is a work by Juan José Solozabal, a constitutionalist who is not suspected of not being a supporter of the federalization of Spain, of the plurality of the state, which published in 2004 a collection of important studies. One of them was called the Nation and the Constitution and it said, it argued, that the virtuality of the autonomous state was precisely in that the conflicts between the autonomous communities and the state and between the autonomous communities were resolved exclusively by law. And that work ended by saying, "It is enough to compare what are the more than 20 years of normalized operation, where the resolution of territorial conflicts is accepted through the contested decisions of the Constitutional Court, with what happened in the Second Republic. It is recalled, in fact, as in the declaration of unconstitutionality of the Catalan crop law by the Court of Guarantees of 34, that Generalitat re-enforces a law equivalent to that which was annulled immediately before by that court.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And he concluded: "The system of the republican integral state had jumped through the air." Well, we certainly defend the right of the Government to go to the Constitutional Court, we defend and accept everything that the Constitutional Court says, which is a body which has on many occasions strengthened the powers of the autonomous communities. But the fact is, once the need for legislation was made clear to fight against the pandemic, the fact is that this was recognized by the President of the Government, the fact is that this was recognized in the dictatorship by the reactivation that the Congress of Deputies approved, which called for state legislation or, in his case, autonomous. The fact is that the Council of State has just said the same thing to the Government, which requires legislation to fight against the pandemic. And the fact is, when an autonomous community adopts a law long before, which is the Basque Country at the courts of the Socialist Group, which signs this proposal -- and so it appears in the Official Bulletin of the Basque Parliament -- here what is spoken and advertised is a resort of unconstitutionality directly without asking for the convening of a bilateral commission. We are really surprised and we ask the Government for an opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u223	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Puy, indeed, today is a day to say Long live democracy! And to trust, when one is a Democrat, in the word, as I once had the opportunity to say from the gallery of this Parliament, to trust that, when a President of the Government, an entire President of the Government, he makes a solemn and committed statement that he is going to do something, because he trusts that this will be true. And also democracy is, legitimately, when the months go by and we see it -- we have to say this because this is the expression -- which has been grossly lacking in truth, our duty is to act, which is what we did in this matter, nothing more and nothing less, and that no one is wrong. We are neither enemies of the central government in the management of the pandemic nor do we consider that the central government is Galician. Another thing is, if it doesn't act, we have to act first and then ask for explanations why the promise was not made. Therefore, the enemy is the virus. We all agreed that this situation would last and, therefore, what we were asking for was a regulation that had prepared us for the evolution that we were going to have and that we were having. We had an organic law of 1986 clearly insufficient, because it did not foresee, or much less -- what would it foresee in 1986? -- what then came and, therefore, had to be adapted and developed so that then each autonomous community could also make adaptations to our territory. That's what we're asking, that's what we were told in May 2020, what Mr. Sánchez told us he was going to do. When we saw that the months went by and didn't do it, we insisted -- I told you before -- we insisted on the weekly presidents' conferences, we insisted on the Single Presidents Conference that was made, by the way, in San Millán de la Cogolla, we insisted on making a proposal from here that we didn't get a response, and finally we had no choice but to act. And we all wanted and we still want are guarantees, nothing more and nothing less, guarantees to be able to continue working in this complicated situation, that's what we ask, is what everyone can understand and what we are asked for by the Greeks and the Greeks, and could be generalist guarantees for all the national territory or could be, in the face of that inaction, in the face of that leave, in view of the position of commentator of the pandemic that the central government has in almost every phase, at least, able to act with our own competences and our own resources. And resources are going right now. We did, we did the same thing -- as you remembered -- that the Basque Parliament has just done, in cooperation with the Socialist Party of Basque and the PNV, because the Socialist Party understands it, probably because it has government responsibilities and does not have to cover the shame of its central government, and therefore it has to act and realize it. And the same thing they're doing now we've done before, and the central government didn't like it. And without telling us why or why not, we suddenly found ourselves with this unconstitutional resource, based on a Council of State that now tells us that the law was good but who had to do the duties didn't. In the second part, I'll try to explain it a little more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u225	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u226	Yes, it's very true that the Socialist Party in Euskadi is pushing what the Socialist Party of Spain challenges in Galicia with the applause of the Socialist Party of Galicia, which is always a curiosity. The ruling of the Council of State: the Government lays down different possible unconstitutionalities and what it says is that it is constitutional to make a law against the pandemic in the state of alarm, that it is constitutional that an autonomous community regulates a law against the pandemic, that the preventive measures of article 38.1, such as the mandatory use of the mask, are constitutional, and reminds it that they have done it by decree. It also says that they are constitutionally the limit, the rights of 38.1, such as closing activities, setting schedules etc. etc It says that many of the special health measures of Article 38.2 are constitutional, such as the limitation of the movement of confinements. It says it's constitutional the 38th, all the criteria of application that we speak of here, proportionality, etc. And he says it's constitutionally the sanctioning regime. The only thing you have doubts about is whether we're going too far in developing a law that's very patchy and precisely we can go a little far because state law is parky and that's what would justify a resource of unconstitutionality, without the Council of State itself at any time saying that our law is unconstitutional. Obviously, if this is the case, with that report, the Government would have to have asked him, on his own initiative, the government champion of dialogue and cooperation with the autonomous communities, the bilateral commission to clarify whether we have gone too far in the development of organic law. But I don't know if they did. Of course, what we know from the press is that the Government did not ask for it, which announced the resort of unconstitutionality, that if it is brought in -- so the Constitution establishes -- if the Greek law is suspended, and we don't know which articles will be resorted to. In view of what the Council of State says only one, but at last we should see him. If there is a bilateral commission, Mr Vice-President, I would be grateful if you could defend the constitutionality of this rule, which has been endorsed by the majority of Parliament, and we believe that it will be an effective tool to cover that gap that will leave the state of alarm, and we do so thinking about the best for the health of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. The Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Mr Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u228	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you were saying that, Mr. Puy, the Council of State, which is the argument you're using right now the Central Government to justify the resource, you have to tell him: "Get the shame out of it, but that's what many jurists say." Don't get into the content of our law, just say that the government had to act, and that since he didn't act, I'll send that message back to him: hey! It acts so autonomous communities can do it. Mr Torrado, when this law was debated in this House, I was talking about the fact that we were doing it for Bolivarian deliriums. The same ones the Euskadi Socialist Party must have. I call it simply responsibility to make a law that we are obliged to do, because the same thing he told us a year ago, that it was essential to make a law by summarizing and analyzing all the laws that were to be operational afterwards, now tell us that there are legal instruments left. He doesn't remember what he told us, he doesn't justify why that change of mind. Just let each one of you compose them as he can. We want legal security, because what's going to happen from May 9th, that we know it was getting up, that it's going to get up -- we'll see because Mr. Sánchez's word is worth it too -- what's going to lift the alarm state? Well, there's going to be -- the president of the board said it -- a double moral leap, with tremor and no net. And suddenly we're going to find that, without any legal instrument to manage the pandemic, the autonomous communities are going to have to do, without any legal coverage, in the face of a lot of very different situations. And that's what we don't want either. If we're saying so all the autonomous communities, those of the Socialist Party, those of the People's Party, the nationalists...! No one understands that we can be in this legal insecurity, we cannot suddenly leave this to the criteria of seventeen different governments, of the courts they are, who have to think in every thing, without a national coverage, which is the only thing we are asking, which we are asking for, is what the Council of State says we must do. And all this, instead of understanding it as a cooperation, that co-governance of which they so much speak and practice, no, is taken -- in the words of Mr. Torrado and the Socialist Group of this Parliament -- as an aggression of those who want legal security against those who promise things and do not. And that's all the opposite. So now that Mr. Iceta -- I insist, after formally asking for it, after spending a lot of days without any answer -- now that he says at least he wants to listen to us, of course we will defend the constitutionality of our law, of course we will explain the reason why he moved us to do it, of course we will again insist on what we insist on from the beginning, that this should not be done by every autonomous community before the State has done it, in which it is necessary for the State to fulfill its own promises, that the President of the Government himself -- I insist, that he would -- simply fulfill his word and do it. That's why we'll all be acting with much more security. Then it will be a question of the capacity and competences that grant the status of autonomy to each autonomous community to adapt it, and that we will know how to do it among all, but with minimal security. So welcome be the Central Government's rectification, welcome be the corditude of institutional loyalty, which Mr. Iceta would like to hear from us. Of course, the Council of Galicia on that opportunity will keep this Parliament up to date with regard to the law it has adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u229	Thank you very much, Vice President. We passed the next question... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, why do you want to use the word? Give a voice to Mr. Torrado's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u230	Yes, there are two questions, but I can sum up in one: 76.1, because of an inaccuracy that the vice president has just pronounced with respect to me; and 76.3, which affects the decor of this parliamentary group, that we mention that we support an initiative or that we discuss an initiative based on an argument about the Basque Country that is incorrect and that we want or believe we need to point out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u231	No, there's no room. Thank you. Question by Mr Martín Seco García and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the minimum distance between mills and housing reflected in the wind project promoted by Green Capital Power in Troitomil, in the municipalities of Baña and Black
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u232	To put the question, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u233	It's a double-bar measuring stick on the side of the table! On February 19, 2021, a public exhibition of the documentation of a wind farm in Troitomil was published in the DOG, between the municipalities of the Bath and Black, a park promoted by Green Capital Power. This new project increases the concern over the large number of wind farms planned for the Baña and Black Town Councils, since, together with those already existing and those planned by the same company in Vilartoxo and Barrosino, in the Baña Town Hall, and those of Alvite I and Alvite II and Banzas in Negroira, they make these two municipalities convert to the municipalities of Galicia with a greater number of wind parks, something that the mayors and the citizens are very concerned about, who are not against the set-up of the wind farms but ask the Junta to plan and not turn their territories into sacrifice zones. This type of facility interferes with the quality of life of citizens and the primary sectors of these districts, which are essential in the economy and in the fight against depopulation. And everything, because of installations that leave little economic advantage in the affected communities, something that yesterday denounced the Agricultural Union itself. Companies like this are divided into small wind farms projects such as those previously stated and others in neighbouring municipalities, such as Val do Dubra, Outes and Mazaricos, which ultimately constitute a single exploitation but which are treated as separate subprojects to avoid exceeding the 50 megawatts that determine that competition for the declaration of environmental impact to the State, which may be a clear violation of the Vigilance. The environmental impact of this Troitomil wind farm is compounded by the proximity of wind power generation mills to inhabited nuclei, and the Baña mayor shows his concern, given the limited minimum distance to housing, that the Welsh legislation establishes 500 meters, which makes the huge new generation mills, up to 200 meters, stay very close to housing, which will cause great trouble by the noises and interferences of television, radio, mobile telephone, etc. On the other hand, the rural world is bearing solely the environmental and heritage costs of this energy sector. And from an economic point of view, the land where Troitomil park is to settle is of great forest value and livestock for the bathtubs. They're also worried about the Banzas Park, water captures, and heritage conditions. It is worrying that the owners of the land directly affected receive insufficient compensation, while the rest of the neighbourhood does not receive any kind of benefit, and what the municipalities receive through the canon and the calls from the Environmental Compensation Fund are residual and little objective. In the face of this concern, which was made manifest by the mayor of the Bath, asking for a meeting with yourself, Counselor, and the energy and mine manager, who did at the end of December last year and who still didn't have the answer for you, Counselor, which says they have a lot of participation. That's why and in the face of his silence with something that's happening throughout Galicia, not only here, if they admit the need to compromise a new wind model that begins to act on an old-fashioned sectoral plan that allows this boom with no sense of projects, we asked him to think about the minimum distance from the mills to the dwellings, established in Galicia 500 meters, when the mills went from 50 to 200 meters high.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Seco, you know perfectly well that processing is not the same as authorising, although you in your intervention intend to confuse and attempt to transfer that this processing will result in an authorization. He knows perfectly well that the obligation of this administration is to process any wind project that is presented to him, and he has to do it by applying the regulations, both the Law of Wind Use and the Law of Environmental Assessment. And he knows it's a regulation that offers total transparency to the citizen through the public exhibition of the documentation of the parks that are being processed. It is also a regulation that obliges the request of all types of analyses and reports to the sectoral bodies depending on the conditions of the project. I mean, for any wind park, so that any wind park can be evaluated by the Galician Union, it has to go through the analysis from the point of view of land management, urbanism or natural heritage, to cite some example. So you know perfectly well that this government has trusted its credibility in the processing of different wind farms, and when it has to authorize them because regulations are complied with, and when regulations are not logically complied with, they are not authorized. That is why I am surprised that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which is precisely driving an energy transition, has here a delegation in Galicia which is against the wind parks, against renewable energies, against the energy transition and, unfortunately, Mr Seco, the Galician Socialist Party against employment in Galicia and the development of its renewable energies. But I am grateful to you for bringing here the situation of Troitomil Park, because you should know that the Territorial and Urban Planning Directorate issued a report, precisely, from distances and established, the Galician Junta, that there were 4 out of 9 positions that did not meet the minimum distance of 500 meters. Because no park is approved that doesn't meet the regulations and, therefore, that doesn't meet those distances. A report has already been submitted with the new configuration, meeting precisely the distances. And you should know that, from the point of view of the environmental body, the need to report on this case of the environmental inventory, the measures to be taken for its protection, the cumulative or synergistic effects that can be established with other projects in the area. Finally, Mr Seco, these wind farms are developing with full guarantee for citizens, for the impacts that can be derived. And I have no doubt that we will be transparent in the information, rigorous in the application of that regulation and, if there is any kind of condition that invalidates the development of this park, this park will not be authorized. And if the criteria are met logically this park will be authorised.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u236	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u237	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Mr. Seco García has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u239	Yes, thank you, President. It's a good news that he said about urbanism, we'll see what situation is at the end of the park. Which should have begun, and since your government is so willing to take these photos all the time when the subjects are about issues that you can sell, I have also taken the same picture with the Baña mayor, who has been asking for a talk with you since December, because he has a saturation of wind projects in his territory. [[Applause]] And we, who are in favour of wind development, are also in favour of rationalization. And what we're asking the German Government is precisely to put in place a new sectoral plan, precisely, to adapt to the current circumstances that are living in our territory and also the type of machines that are installed in wind farms. And so we don't understand how they're not taking action and not whether they're dealing with both rural agents and municipalities, as well as the rest of the groups, a new model, precisely, that ensures that the minimum distances to these mills are sufficient. In Asturias and Valencia these distances are 1,000 meters, here are 500 meters. And with mills of 200 meters, obviously, it's not the same as with mills of 50 meters. And, therefore, the Greek Government should be willing to try and talk to the rest of the groups and the rest of society to change issues that I think should be analysed by the Greek Government. And within these too, of course, information, transparency and all those economic benefits that leave the wind sector in Galicia, that -- I repeat it again, just as we repeated yesterday in the motion -- is completely insufficient all the benefit that it leaves in the territory and that it is completely insufficient also all the information that the owners receive, all the information that they might have from the Government of Galicia and, therefore, we urge you, without interfering everything that is the installation of wind energy in our country, if you feel about adopting a new wind model that obviously collects all these issues that have not existed over thirty years ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Seco, I understand that this government is prepared to deal with new developments from a normative point of view! What surprises me is that the Socialist Party of Galicia did not want to, precisely, dialogue when we brought the Law of reactivation and administrative simplification, with improvements in the development of the wind sector, and its position, as always, was the no, simply because you want to sow doubts, sow uncertainties and, above all, what surprises me is that you intend to condition the reports of the Council of Galicia in the development of its processing, which is the truly surprising thing. I'm surprised, I'm so surprised that you're trying to transfer that the Galician Union is developing a policy that allows the fractionation of wind farms. It's simply a lack of regulation. You -- and I also transfer it to the Galego Nationalist Block, because they also want to question the fractionation of parks -- they should know that the Environmental Assessment Act defines what is a fractionation of projects, is defined in the law. And it's defined as the artificial mechanism for dividing a project with the aim of preventing ordinary environmental impact assessment. This is a fractionation of wind farms. And you should know that in all these parks you've alluded to, in all these parks, the assessment is being applied from an ordinary environmental point of view. So we're being absolutely guaranteed that, indeed, there is no kind of fractionation of parks, because any cumulative and synergistic effect is analysed with other wind farms and also with all associated infrastructures. And they should know that an impact study is done on a 15-kilometre radio around the new project by an agreement between the different autonomous communities. So it's very hard to understand what's bothering them when this government is fulfilling basic legislation, the legislation of the autonomous community, and therefore being absolutely guaranteed -- I insist -- with citizens and with the development of the territory in Galicia. I would therefore ask you, Mr Seco, to stop criminalizing the wind sector in Galicia, because there are 7,000 professionals in Galicia who develop their activity and should also respect the serious and rigorous work being done by the officials of the Galician Union. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u242	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the need to carry out a joint study and assessment of the impact of the construction of twenty-four wind farms on habitats and species of community interest of the Swiss and High Tea saw
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u243	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u244	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Conde, what is a fractionation of an wind farm made it clear to the High Court of Justice of Galicia in the Sasdonigas judgment, which said that you have illegally, irregularly, fractionated a park. [[Applause]] But what are you telling me? It's just that you're being told by the Supreme Court of Justice itself of Galicia, and it's not the first sentence, by the way, on the subject. I don't know if you when you were a kid, who I suppose was a kid, played the girls. Do you know what the girl is? Do you know what the girl is? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The girl is what you're doing with the wind, she's the windy little girl, the great windy pillage, the big feast and the windy raccoon. That's what you're allowing. [[Applause]] That's what you are, by the way, putting more and more people against, putting against neighbouring communities, mountain communities, ecological associations, the Galician Wind Observatory is questioning this model and even a lot of municipalities. by the way, many of the People's Party. And you know why? Because you're not getting on the side of the country, you're not getting on the side of the local communities. They're putting part of these big companies, those speculators of all the fur that literally want to pillage and steal our wealth. And that's why you're putting so many people against it. And look, I could talk to you about countless cases. Of course from the Bath, the Ten, the Coast of Death, I could tell you about the Caterpillar, the Suido... well, the Suido will tell you. I could tell you about the Groba, I could tell you about the Courel, about the eastern mountains, it's a cry, a real social uprising, what you're provoking against this invasive and abusive policy. And Suido is an example of a book of this policy that you are carrying out. Look, this map I have here -- if you can, if you have the delicacy to look at it, Mr. Conde -- are 24 wind farms concentrated in the Swede and Upper Tea, 24 parks. This is not a wind park, this is an wind mega-invasion, it's an industrial mega-polignion that will create a terrorist devastation in spaces, in areas of great environmental value, of great ecological value, of great cultural value, which are also protected as spaces of priority by the European Community. There are 53 wetlands, turbulence that are fundamental to preventing climate change. This area was planned for the expansion of the Natura Network, now we know why you paralyzed the Natura Network, to do all this devastation. It's an area of special interest in landscape. [[Applause]] This is how the landscape areas of interest are treated, as the rest of the country will do! So what we want to say to you, Mr. Conde, is that you have to apply the precautionary principle, you have to stop this devastation, you have to do a joint study, a joint evaluation [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u245	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Mr Bará pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, I regret once again the negationist attitude of the Galician Nationalist Block in economic and industrial matters. And I regret this negationist attitude because it has a double irresponsibility. First of all, because it is questioning the economic development of this country, the confidence of investors, and the confidence of citizens themselves. And it's also irresponsible because you in your intervention are urging this Government not to comply with the law, and that's typified, Mr. Bará, it is typified. I understand perfectly well that his ideology leads him to think that in the rule of law one can do what one wants, but that's not the case, Mr Bará. We must comply with the laws and, therefore, I am sorry that your position is simply to incite the Government not to comply with it. I'll tell you again what I've moved to Mr. Seco: processing isn't the same thing to authorize. And you talk as if the Galician Union were to authorize the parks; and, of course, you haven't received those 24 requests that you transfer. In any case, I would also repeat that the wind farms, all the wind farms, are subjected to this ordinary environmental assessment, which is the most guaranteed of all, to precisely ensure and prevent any kind of fractionation of the parks. It is thus established in the Environmental Assessment Act, and you will see that it is established in that law that wind farms are subject to this ordinary environmental assessment when they are less than two kilometers away from another wind park, already in operation, under construction, with administrative authorization or with declaration of environmental impact. It's very difficult to develop a debate when you don't come here with the regulations on the table, you just come speculating, you just generate distrust, and you just want to avoid the content of the law. You should know that all this environmental assessment and all the impacts that can occur from the point of view of the local natural, cultural and aesthetic values and therefore determine their compatibility from the socio-economic point of view and from the point of view of the impact on the territory. Of course we'll need to analyze the synergistic and cumulative effects that can be achieved with other wind farms, and also with their associated infrastructures, in a radius, as I moved earlier, 15 kilometers. So it's very hard to understand why you come, once again, Pleno after plenary, the Galego Nationalist Block, denying the economy, denying Galicia's economic development and, above all, denying the possibility of developing and creating employment linked to a sector like the wind sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u247	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u248	Look, Mr. Count, who doesn't comply with the law, it's you. And I don't tell you, I don't tell you the BNG, say the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. [[Applause]] Consider me: "There is a great legal vacuum in environmental matters in which energy companies are supported to carry forward their projects." This doesn't say BNG, gave the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. "Society has no channels for participation in the development of renewables, facing an active role of aggressors and beneficiaries of companies and administration." They call it aggressors! The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia calls it you and the companies, aggressors. But you're telling me! Whoever doesn't comply with the law is you and -- I'm telling you -- they're putting everyone against it. But it's not the BNG: - "Lalín calls for an wind moratorium in the face of endless pressure from new parks.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Lalin, ruled by the People's Party, his starship. "Curtis supports the neighboring proposals and requires the abolition of the wind park The Pena Shadow." Suppression, criminalization; Curtis is criminalizing wind farms. [[Applause]] -- The Marine Biosphere Reserve also calls for a moratorium. "Unanimous political and social rejection of the deployment of wind farms in the Bath." Also the Popular Bath Party, Oia's, Covelo's, Vilasantar's... are they all criminalizing the wind sector? Something's happening here, Mr. Count, and you don't want to see it, you keep supporting the predators, the speculators, the ones who are riding that great feast. And I'm telling you one thing, so that you'll be clear: we, of course, will not allow it, we won't allow it, we'll plant it face because we don't swallow with mill wheels, Mr. Count, neither hydraulic mills nor windmills. And besides, this is what you're up against is not a wind plan, it's a diabolical plan, a plan of devastation, of razing the country, and that can't be. You're not increasing the wind power, you're increasing the prepotence, your prepotence, your pouty and your intention to go through above all, even the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u249	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, it is found in the curriculum of the Galego Nationalist Block, for the cry of the Greeks, that you are against the wind sector, just as they are against Ence, just as they are against Elnosa, just as they are against the Pontes and Meirama centrals, just as they are against any industrial activity that can allow the economic development of our country. It is in your curriculum, Mr Bará, with which, as you will understand, when a political party such as the Nationalist Block precedes party interests to Galicia's progress, it is simply not worth continuing to insist on that direction. And so what this government is going to do is simply transfer guarantees, assurances and trust to the citizens of the Covelo, the Fornelos de Montes, the Lama, the plane and the Beariz. That's what we're going to do, and we're going to transmit and transfer that trust, because all citizens of Covelo, of Fornelo de Montes, da Lama, de Avion and de Beariz know that we're applying the law, and they know that we're going to authorize, deny or suspend the projects presented in the Swedish greenhouse always according to the fulfilment of all the guarantees that exist for the protection of the environment, and we're going to do so by applying the regulations and transferring those guarantees. You will continue -- and I deeply regret it -- by trying to alarm citizenship, but citizenship, Mr. Bara, all you want is to be told the truth, and that's what we're going to do. And, according to regulations, and speaking of the Swede saw, when a possible extension of the Nature Network that affects this or other spaces was initiated, there is no doubt that the processing of the projects affected would be stopped until the area was approved as a protection. We will do so because it is collected in the regulations and, therefore, we will ensure that no wind farms will be put into operation that are not guaranteed from the point of view of their environmental, urban, cultural or natural heritage impact. We will do this precisely in the development of Galicia, and you, unfortunately, will continue to deny, deny industry, deny employment, and that, unfortunately, will be part of, as I say, of your curriculum, a curriculum that will be regrettable for the history of Galicia, because never a political party was so negationist with employment and with the industry in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u251	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the momentum of a large country agreement on the next generation funds based on transparency and dialogue
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u252	To put the question, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u253	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Mr. Conde, in fact, today in the Spanish Parliament, was aware of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience, that plan that will be sent to the European Commission before the end of the month, and a plan that logically seeks to mobilise those 72,000 million initial grants that constitute the funds. A plan that aims to boost and transform the economy, and from that point of view also the economy of the whole country here in Galicia. Some time ago, not long ago, 10 days ago, the board of directors, Mr. Feijóo and yourself, announced 354 projects linked to European funds, which aspired to mobilize 20 billion euros: 107 private projects; 247 public projects... finally, projects of which we know absolutely nothing and the Greek society absolutely none. 20,000 million! Besides accusing me of being opposed to coming to Galicia European funds, I say no, the PSOE and the PSdeG want a lot of funds and projects coming to Galicia; EUR 20 billion is an absolute dream, and therefore I ask you to stop propaganda on these kinds of issues and not be set up in permanent confusion with regard to European funds. Some time ago you also announced 108 projects, 108 projects from which we, in Parliament, in the plenary, in the Commission, through various initiatives, even in their appearance, asked for information, not only for this group, but for the whole country. BNG also asked for it. And we wanted this Parliament to set up a non-permanent Commission, a presentation, or as a body for all purposes, where the whole country participated: university, political parties, Fegamp and social agents, in the formation of a country project around European funds. None of this has happened, and the reality is that since the Galician Union has kept its permanent opacity in relation to European fund projects, no information has been provided, and today, more than in the reactivating Commission, the experts themselves who appear there urge the Galician Union to provide this type of information to political groups, nothing has been done. And in that sense, we ask you the question, however, of whether the Galician Union is prepared to formalise a country agreement on this issue of European funds, with the political forces as well as social agents. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Quiet, please! Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivera, I thought that in his speech he would transfer us to information about the 212 initiatives that are driving the government of his political party, with those 110 projects, those 102 reforms that no autonomous community of this country knows about. Too bad, because it would be a great opportunity, precisely, to share information. But what we agree with, Mr Rivera, is that we are actually at an opportunity for our country to transform our economic and social model and, therefore, an opportunity that we will have to take advantage of. And that's why this government is working on a candidacy, which is composed of 354 projects, which are projects that are viable, and of which 247 are public, 107 private, and that budget actually is about 20 billion euros of mobilization. That's a candidacy for the power to respond to the various manifestations of interest, to the various calls that the Government is announcing and that, therefore from Galicia we're going to opt for those funds, and all we're asking is to be able to opt on equal terms. A candidacy which, logically, consists of a joint work, Mr. Rivera, with economic experts, with businesses, with agents of what the innovation system is, and also with socio-economic agents themselves. Projects that can contribute to what our productive fabric can be more competitive, if it can generate jobs and, of course, it is a candidacy that will continue to work in consensus, in a consensus through social dialogue, where we have already had the opportunity to present the projects, and a social dialogue with which we will meet tomorrow, Thursday, and we will have the opportunity at that meeting to transfer the content of the projects. As we will do in the political dialogue within the Committee on Reactivation of this Parliament, in which I have already asked to come again for the third time, precisely to broaden and detail the information presented by the President of the Council of Galicia to the leaders of the opposition, also the day after his presentation at the Council of the Union. So we will continue to make this unit application, and I hope, Mr Rivera, is that in attendance we can share the projects that from the Socialist Party in Galicia can be added to this candidacy, and, therefore, that we can actually develop a unit candidacy. We have no other vocation, and that's why we're going to the Reactivation Commission, we're going to the social dialogue with the intention of developing a country candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u256	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u257	Thank you. Well, Mr. Conde, indeed, you have appeared in the reactive committee and in the Commission 3rd on this subject too. You announced that you would give the groups a record of everything that had to do with European funds and actually gave us what you read that day in your presence. I think that's not exactly what you're doing about European funds. And I hope and wish that in your presence, which you have just anticipated, in the reactive committee, would give us much more information. [[Applause]] You're actually talking about Galicia having the right to participate in equality. Obviously, we defend that and I think that's the position of the Government of the State. There are 27,000 million commitees who can be ahead of the projects that are being presented and, logically, this has to be done with competitive competition and in terms of equality. And there we agree and I think you know perfectly well that's going to be exactly like this. What we finally demand, Mr. Conde, is to know what is the objective of development that Galicia has, which has the Council of Galicia, in relation to these funds from here to the future. What country are you designing? Because these are fundamental funds to develop the future of our country, transform the economy, push it at this time of pandemic and transform it towards a future. What are they doing with the administration? In Germany, Mr Conde, 10 % of the funds are devoted to the modernisation of the Administration in Spain, 5.4 %. In Galicia, can we indicate how many projects are linked to the modernisation of public administration, the health sector, the education sector, active employment policies? That's the fundamental thing that explains all that. We have concerns, of course,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u259	...that the funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u260	Your time is up. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Your time is up, Mr. Rivera. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and advisor of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Seco, indeed, Galicia's candidacy aims to work for a more digital, more sustainable, more egalitarian and more cohesive Galicia. And that's why we've transferred a proposal with five large strategic value chains that are focused, first, on the circular economy and energy transition as an element of economic development; with sustainable mobility, innovation hubs and Industry 4.0, together with the development of ICT. Fourthly, with the chain of sea and industry and agro-industry. And fifthly, with health care, healthy lifestyles and the new care economy. Five strategic lines that make up a coherent candidacy and, above all, a candidacy that's looking for that transformation of our tissue through digitization and also through the sustainability of our productive tissue. What surprises me is that you say you don't know the projects. I'm surprised. I'm surprised this government is transferring information about the main country projects and, above all, about the main projects we want to promote. And he knows that that pole for Galicia's transformation can be a huge opportunity if we're really able to develop that center of the circular economy and that textile fiber factory with which we're working with more than thirty companies and knowledge centers. And you know there's a candidate in the automotive sector with 1,300 million euros, where the Government is simply acting arbitrarily, territorially, trying to promote, the Government, a candidate in Catalonia against other autonomous communities. That doesn't seem reasonable, but we will continue to insist on the candidacy through the automotive sector, like the Galician aerospace pole, or the central group that wants to develop a vaccine plant or the digitization itself of small and medium-sized companies, which is one of the strategic projects. So, Mr. Rivera, there's a candidacy in which we're looking for consensus and support, we're going to work together. And, indeed, there are some issues that we do not agree with with the Government and I think these parliamentary groups should also work together with the Council of Galicia. It does not seem reasonable that the Galician Union does not know what criteria are being established by the Government to establish the different criteria for distribution. It does not seem reasonable that the distribution criteria currently penalized Galicia by EUR 700 million if the criteria of the autonomic financing system were applied. So, Mr Rivera, we can work together on the candidacy and we can work together so that the Government will simply allow us to compete on equal terms. And, above all, that allows us to work so that we can get out of this Parliament a candidate for unity to work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u262	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u263	...for the development and transformation of the productive sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u264	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question from Mercedes Queixas Zas and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the alternative provided by the Government of Galicia to ensure the survival of the Alu Iberian plant of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u265	Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor to put the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u266	I want to start by recalling that the property and current situation of the Alu Iberian work center in the Coruña brings its source of Alcoa's sale to the Swiss Parter. A sale that takes place in a framework or in a very special context, during the negotiation of an extinct ERE for all the factory staff, about 300 people. During the negotiation of this ERE, an alternative appears, the sale of the factory to Parter for a symbolic price and an Alcoa approach to the buyer of 95 million euros to be made for two years, in exchange, basically, of three conditions: reactivation of electrolysis tanks and improvements in the casting process; the prohibition of selling the factory to third parties; and the subrogation of all personnel with a guarantee of also two years. This two-year term is due in July of this year 2021. An agreement which was accepted by the majority of the staff of the Coruña and Avilés factories to the extent that it had taken effect with the participation of both the Government of the State and the autonomous, German and Asturian governments, who examined the projects of the applicant companies to take place with the Alcoa factories and finally endorsed the presentation by Parter. And three months after this two-year term, the situation of the factory cannot be worse; the facts that have been happening since Alcoa actually leaves the factories are known and can be summed up in systematic failure to comply with the conditions of transmission, starting with the sale to a third, "the criminal risk group", as workers affectionately call it, who neither reactivates the tanks nor performs improvements in the casting process, nor respects the working conditions of the staff. The situation is such that today there are two legal cases open in the National Court, one social and one criminal. The situation is such that the fears that an insolvent and disorderly closure can occur are increasingly well-founded. The position of BNG with respect to the aluminium production factories belonging to Alcoa is known: we bet that they integrate into SEPI, either permanently or temporarily while a society does not appear, this time it would be and solvent that consolidates the business project and employment, because aluminium production is an industrial activity that must be considered strategic. Our position is not a strange alternative in the field of the European Union, for we remember that this was the solution adopted in Italy with the factory that Alcoa itself had in Portovesme, Sardinia, first acquired by the Italian public entity equivalent to SEPI and subsequently resurrected, in expression of a German media, thanks to an agreement on the price of supplying energy with the public company ENEL, which we so well know in Galicia. But, in any case, what we are interested in today, Mr Vice-President, is knowing what is the government's plan to secure production and employment at the Alu Iberian factory in Coruña. Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, allow me, first of all, a message of solidarity with the workers of Alu Iberian, who are going through enormously complicated moments, moments of uncertainty and moments when they are defining their future. What is clear is that the Galician Union -- I say it by its question because, as always, the Galician Nationalist Block makes an interesting account of reality --, in any case, if the workers must know that the Galician Union has always been and is at this moment and will be on the side of the workers, looking precisely for an alternative that offers them a stable job for the future. And he was talking about an interesting story about reality, especially because of the question you're asking. Look at this picture, Mr. Fernández, or headline, says: "Alcoa sells to Partar the plants of Avilés and A Coruña, which come to be called Alu Iberica." It is published in La Opinionion, dated 1 August 2019. I don't think in this picture you see any representative of the Galician Union. And you know what the article says? Léolo: "The Economic Counsellor, Francisco Conde, regretted yesterday the false closure of Alcoa, which in his view is only a partial solution with a two-year expiration date." That said, Mr. Fernández, August 1, 2019. But look at this new picture: "Parter Capital sells its aluminium factories from A Coruña and Avilés to the Risk Group", also from La Opinion, this time dated April 16, 2020. And on this occasion, the committee chairman says that "we would not understand that the government ignored this fact; if he knew something and did not communicate it to us it seems very serious, and if he didn't know anything is serious too." I mean, the Socialist Government and the Podemos Government -- which is quiet because you know that the Galician Nationalist Block supports you every time you have the occasion -- you know that, in fact, this is the reality of the operation that happened. But there was more, July 15th: "The Board joins the Committee of Iberian Alu to demand the Government to hear the Risk Group. The Autonomic Government and the workers will send a joint letter to the Ministry of Industry to investigate the financial and technical situation of the A Grela plant." Do you know what happened to this request from the Galician Council and the Business Committee? On behalf of the Government, no answer. So, I think, Mr. Fernández, that if you want a unit agreement to work with the workers of Alu Iberian, what you have to do is work with the Government of Galicia, which is what you are defending the interests of the workers of Alu Iberian. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u269	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u270	Mr Vice-President, do you not remember this man who has recently ceased? He's the ex-Director General of Industry, Tahoces, and he's sitting with the representation of the companies that carried out the transmission of Alcoa. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I'm going to insist that aluminium production should be considered a strategic industrial activity because of its essential importance for many of the most varied industrial activities; and the importance of the volume of employment it occupies in our country, directly but also by the induced. Given this importance and this strategic character, you might expect some action, plan or project on the part of your Government -- on the part of the Greek Government -- to preserve in our country this activity and related employment, as it is done to preserve an activity that is indeed very dependent on the price of energy, as it guarantees competitive prices and, above all, stable and predictable prices, contrary to what the People's Party has done since the Government of the State. What does the Government do to ensure competitive energy prices for the Welsh industry? Nothing, nothing at all during the last twelve years of government. They'll say they can't or don't have skills, but it's a lie, because here's the case of the Italian state that supports production through a public energy company, and there's the electricity tariff of the Basque industry. Examples that show that in politics the most important thing is always to have the will to find the solution, the method or the mechanism. It's a political will to turn its own resources into competitive advantages and to equip itself with the policy framework that brings us closer to the goals, just as its government does not. Mr. Conde, energy resources are not missing in Galicia, it shouldn't be the price of energy a problem for any German company. And, in any case, do we insist, Mr Vice-President, that you look for solutions for the Welsh industry and for the Alu Iberian factory in Coruña? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and advisor of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u272	Mr. Fernández, I deeply regret his lack of rigor; and, above all, I deeply regret his absolute ignorance of all the process that began with Alcoa's announcement when he announced that ERE in Alcoa La Coruña. Absolutely unknown. You should know that there was an institutional statement and a commitment by the Government of Spain precisely to ensure a competitive price so you can continue to produce primary aluminium in Alu Iberian. Where is that commitment from the Government of Spain? Where is this electro-intensive consumer status that can guarantee a competitive electric price? Why do you want to fool people and not work with the Galician Union to defend the workers? Why don't you refer specifically to the government's commitment to, during these two years of part-investment and thus to ensure investments to continue their work? Why does the Government of Spain not want to conduct a financial technical audit to ensure whether or not these investments are being made that should allow the activity to continue from July 31st? Why do you always want to point to the Galician Union when in this case what you should do is work with the Galician Union and the workers, who are working together to, precisely, demand the Government of Spain, first to guarantee that competitive electric price and, secondly, to ensure that the commitments that the Government itself assessed on 31 July 2019 are being fulfilled? Why don't you defend Galicia, why don't you defend Galician workers, and why always the Galician Nationalist Block is simply in denial, simply because here is the People's Party, which is the only one defending the interests of the workers of Alu Iberian? [[Applause]] And, Mr. Fernández, we have an absolutely collaborative attitude with the Government of Spain. We're proving it with Alcoa-San Cibrao and we're going to prove it with Alu Iberian The Coruña, of course. And this government, Mr. Fernández, is ready and open to any solution through Sepi, any kind of temporary intervention that will allow the situation in which is currently the Alu Iberian La Coruña plant to be reversed. [[Applause]] So, Mr. Fernández, leave the demagogy because that will not help the workers of Alu Iberian La Coruña. He works with his own workers and the Galician Union, which we are making a common front to demand, precisely, that the Government of Spain fulfil its energy commitments, its commitments that he assessed with the sale of Alcoa to Parter and, therefore, that the future of the workers of Alu Iberian La Coruña can be guaranteed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u273	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by Maria Elena Suárez Sarmiento and seven other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, about the projects to be undertaken by the Government of Galicia to improve the sanitation of Vilagarcia de Arousa and to support the Council in developing its municipal competences in the matter
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u274	To put the question, Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u275	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, counselor, and thank you for being here today to answer this question of so much interest for the citizenship of Vilagarcia and even for the citizenship of the entire Arousa stream. Thank you, above all, for the bet on your advice in my city. The Greek Government, through the Infrastructure Council you run, has just announced the investment of more than 33 million euros in improving sanitation and purification in Arousa's Vilagarcia, a fundamental investment of its amount but, above all, its impact. Vilagarcia is a very beautiful city -- let me assume -- that it has a serious problem of flooding and vegetation caused by deficiencies in municipal and sanitation infrastructures, which will be resolved to a large extent by this investment. I am aware that sanitation is a strictly municipal competition, so it acquires even more relevance to the involvement of the Galician Union in this investment, giving example once again what is the exercise of institutional collaboration and loyalty. By the way, speaking of institutional collaboration, it would be good if some institution had taken the example of the Government of Galician Union. It is well known that the Deputy of Pontevedra, like others, is not collaborating with the municipalities in the field of sanitation, supply and purification. Even though it is the county council that does not contribute to this. It should be remembered that Members have as much capacity and competence as possible to perform such works as the Galician Union. Counselor, as I said, the work you presented in February to the local government of Vilagarcia will have a great impact on the daily life of many villages and villages. Those of us who live there often suffer the discomfort of walking through flooded streets because of the serious deficiencies in municipal infrastructures, which also causes unwanted greens. The investment of EUR 33.6 million will also have a major impact on the sanitation of the Arousa River, in which I find that Junta has made a great investment effort since 2009. This line, of indisputable tourist attraction, is also a source of income from many families who live from shellfish and fishing and who welcome this initiative with great hope, in the face of the despair that causes you to be approved by the Socialist Party's Climate Change Act at national level, supported with great care by the Socialist Party of Galicia, which is frontally attacking its interests and its future. By all accounts this Popular Parliamentary Group is interested in the projects it intends to commit to the German Government in Arousa's Vilagarcia to improve sanitation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u276	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u278	Thank you very much, Mrs. Suárez. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u279	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, you have already said so, the competences in the field of sanitation, supply and clearance are exclusive municipal competences. I think it's important to clarify this because sometimes it's difficult to internalize that competences are municipal, there's the law of the local regime that clearly says it, but also that, whenever I have occasion, I also say that it's a complicated matter and that, of course, it makes it very difficult for the municipalities to exercise these powers that they have. And that's why, since Galician Union, we're not, of course, unsatisfied and we're working with the municipalities, helping the municipalities to exercise this competition, which is complicated, with difficulties, and we're acting, therefore, by helping these local authorities, and difficulties that, above all, have the smaller councils. So we work together to provide these municipal competition services so that the waters in Galicia have quality. And the truth is that I share with you, to me, of course, I would love to say that the provincial deputies, at least in the Welsh rivers, which are our identity, are a source of wealth, tourism, public health, of course also helped in the same way... but with some degree of involvement in the sanitation and purification of the Welsh rivers. Since 2009, EUR 1,100 million has been invested by Galician Waters, helping municipalities to exercise their competence in supply, sanitation and purification. I work hard in the rivers of Galicia, which, as I say, is our identity. And the paradigm of that effort is also the line of Arousa: it's 74 million euros that we've invested in the last decade in the line of Arousa. Now we are focused, essentially, on sanitation and purification in the City Hall of Vilagarcía, helping the Vilagarcía Town Hall to exercise those powers that it has granted by the Law of bases of local regime. It builds up, of course, serious problems of purification, and that's why we've been involved in planning these works for many years, to offer a comprehensive and definitive solution to these problems. It's a technical job that's been a long time and where we detect the deficiencies. We want to give answers and, of course, we are in a position to start the works in the short term. On February 17, we presented to the mayor of Vilagarcia these works: extension of debugger, multiplying by 2.5 capacity, and also acting on the network of collectors. In total, we are talking about two major actions, EUR 33.6 million to address these deficiencies of floods, filtrations, polluting greens and lack of purification. Storm tank to solve these floods, network of collectors, purification; therefore great effort to solve these problems of sanitation and purification. By the quality of the waters we do it, by our rivers. Of course, I don't think any more Galician union can be asked. Maybe other administrations can ask for something else. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u280	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u281	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for your reply and for denying with this initiative one of the Socialist Party's mantras, namely to repeat that the Galician Union only makes water investments in the municipalities governed by the People's Party. Well, this initiative shows that this is not true. Most of the investment is intended for the extension of the debugger, a very successful decision that aims to increase the treatment capacity of EDAR to ensure compliance with the verdant limits of the flows it receives. In particular, this action, as the advisor well said, involves multiplying by almost 2.5 the current plant treatment capacity. This infrastructure also provides for the process of disorption of the debugger, a question I'm sure you will receive with great pleasure especially the nearest neighbours in the area. We spoke before the necessary institutional collaboration and, in this case, not only is it necessary, but it is essential for the administrative processing of this dossier. No one can escape from the fact that this investment is particularly complex due to the involvement of several departments and bodies, so it is essential to coordinate and comply with the deadlines in the different procedures in order to start and finish the work as soon as possible. Tell me that counseling has already put in place the necessary machinery to start management of its competition and I hope the Vilagaría Town Hall is doing the same thing. In this issue, the starting point for the citizens of Vilagarcia to enjoy the improvement of the services that this investment will provoke, I would like to know the pace of the management carried out by the Infrastructure Council and the pace of those that depend on the Municipality of Vilagarcia and whether, for the moment, the two institutions are adjusting to the commitments and deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u282	Thank you very much, Mrs. Suárez. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u283	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, as last February we presented to the mayor of Vilagarcia our proposal to solve the problem of sanitation and purification in that municipality, solve these serious problems that you have and urge you very much that it is necessary to speed up all the relevant administrative procedures, with the objective of bidding, executing and finally making available these essential hydraulic works for integral sanitation. And we've been trying to replicate and preach with the example and that's why since the Galician Union, with regard to the debugger, we've already started the environmental process. An environmental process that we are undertaking by the simplified procedure to shorten deadlines and be able to bid the works as soon as possible. This pre-project, drafted, has a complex processing since it was carried out by the waters of Galicia over the last few months. And the zooming of the debugger is done in a portion of the Galician Union but the truth is that you need a timely change, a timely change that should be done by the Vilagarcia Town Hall. The municipal sanitation network must also be the object of action. The municipal sanitation network project has been drafted, is under supervision, and we hope to have this project fully completed this month. And that's why, at the end of March, we asked the Council of Vilagarcía simply to officially ask us to do this work. That is, simply, Galician Waters does this work, and also the simple municipal documentation of the decree of financial technical collaboration, making the necessary land available and therefore simple documentation to be able to advance in the administrative processing of this collection network work, which is of interest. I hope there's no problem. The fact is that today we do not find that this documentation requested in March to the Council of Vilagarcia has been registered in order to be able to move forward in the bid for this first action, which is the collection network. Of course, rhythms are important and rhythms, of course, is not a minor issue to be able to invest 33.6 million euros. And our prediction, if the Town Hall carries out and carries out administrative procedures and municipal documentation agilely, our goal is to start bidding in this second semester and start the works at the beginning of 2021. We are convinced, of course, that this action is important and that is why we work decisively, drafting the project, which counts with funding, and we want to run the work. So let the time limits be met by the Vilagarcia Council and also by the process, because the two projects of Vilagarcia to the Galician Union are underway, for comprehensive sanitation, with 23 million euros to expand the debugger, and 10.5 million euros to that network of collectors, where we lack municipal documentation. Therefore, EUR 33.6 million for comprehensive sanitation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u284	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Mercedes Queixas Zas, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the management that will take place in Galicia in connection with the sale of land from the port of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u285	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Complaints Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u286	Thank you, President. At the last plenary session of the BNG Group, we brought a GNP urging the Galician Union to look for a way out of the difficult situation across the Coruña port. A port, we insist, considered in the interest of the state, the capital soul of the city and also of the Comarca de la Coruña and immersed in an unprecedented economic regression over the last decade, in which it has significantly reduced its participation in all the ports of the state. Thus, while corrupt port traffic declined by 111.5 %, in Spain it increased by 20.7 %. A situation that indicates the lack of attraction capacity for a port that is able to continue to be what it has always been, an important economic motor for the city and for the region of Coruña, more than, of course, requires an urgent strategic plan to recover itself as an optimal location to welcome a wide variety of scales and trade, national and international traffic. However, the current portrait of the port of Coruña, which severely conditions its functionality and profitability, is to have incurred an accumulated debt of 302 million euros, of which 200 million is a debt directly contracted with Ports of the State, derived, as we well know, from the construction of the outer port, a unique and exclusive decision of the state in whose construction was spent 1 billion euros, leaving it curiously, incommunicado, without an iron road and therefore infraoperative, claiming that it is now Galicia who pays the debt of the port and the railway access, assuming as its own the consequences of the worst management of the Authority would be the Welsh and the Galician. In the above-mentioned plenary session, 15 days ago, we unanimously adopted a resolution, which was precisely negotiated with the People's Party, which urged the Galician Union to demand these two points: the tendering of the railway access of Punta Langosteira's external port before the coming month of June, with the firm commitment of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda to include it in European funds and, failing that, to ensure the budgetary resources for its execution; and two, the cancellation of the debt of the Coruña port with State ports or the granting of an economic approach of equivalent quantity. The information transferred over the last few days through the media has effectively annulled this parliamentary agreement, and that is why we are bringing this question today: Are you willing to support and support the sale of public port land from the port of Coruña, sponsoring speculation and accepting the aggravating comparison with the port of Valencia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u287	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u288	Thank you. Your Honor, this government is facing a very different reality than the BNG because, of course, we are working on solutions, concrete solutions, solid solutions and viable solutions. I would really be grateful if you had brought concrete, viable solutions and proposals to solve the serious problems facing the Coruña port and, consequently, also the city of Coruña, because there are two related issues. The BNG proposal for the Coruña port has the same shape and size as that of AP-9, a sign with nothing behind it, zero behind it. Yes, that's very easy and each talk can make thousands of banners, but, of course, what they don't know how to make are proposals. Because, of course, the solutions are made with proposals and what it costs them is to positively value the proposals that others make and, of course, to positively value the involvement of President Feijóo, who has come to solve the train to Langosteira and what is solving the maritime facade of the Coruña. The Council of Galicia will always be close to favouring the city of Coruña, the development of the port of Coruña, and ensuring that public ownership of the land, and you, from your political position, will stand in the non-permanent, not without alternatives, not without proposals, or not because, as the Union has the initiative, no, not for the non-permanent. And you, a lot of protest and no proposal. You make a lot of protests, of course, but no proposals. Cogobernan in the Crown Deputy, what is your proposal, from the BNG party, co-governing in the Crown Deputy and supporting the Government of the Coruña Town Hall?, what is your proposal to maintain the title of the docks?, I ask. If it were for you, neither the new public hospital in the Coruña health area would we have. Well, the Coruña health area is going to have a new hospital in the Coruña, with you or without you, and of course we're going to develop the maritime facade with you or without you. [[Applause]] Secondly, the financial situation of the port of Coruña... we have collected the unanimous agreement of Parliament to forgive the equivalent aid, we hope that the Government of Spain will support you and that you have supported us make a proposal, and we will be with the same urgency as the rest of Spain, but we already say, with proposals, that they have more work, more rigour and, of course, more letters than their banners. Because that's the hard part, ladies and gentlemen. That's our billboard: legal proposals, with annuals; two very clear agreements, with timetables, with annuals. [[The Counsellor's Lady shows a role.]] That's how things are solved, with concrete and solid proposals, and not with banners that have nothing behind them. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u289	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Queixas Zas has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u290	Thank you, President. I think it became clearer than ever that the fundamental thing is to focus the debate on what matters and the question that we have just formulated here, and not hide it in completely confusing and cheating scenarios. The construction of the outer port, I insist again, was a unique and exclusive decision of the State and therefore it is up to the State to respond for its decisions. The solutions deal with the state, intervene, manage with them, therefore, please rule at once, as is their place, in this country. Don't disavow -- we will insist every day from the BNG --, don't distort this agreement achieved fifteen days ago in this Parliament, with fast-paced marketing operations, not adultery with which it seems to be a less and less secret pact and, by the way, more comfortable between PP and PSOE, to legitimize a renewed mortgage for the Greeks and for the roosters, for the krunis and the crowns, the cost of the definitive sacrifice of the maritime façade of the Coruña and its future. [[Applause]] The Crown and Galicia are not in debt to the State, they're not wrong. The State, with the Crown and Galicia, yes. Not to be opposed by Mr Feijóo to the mere mention of the Spanish socialist minister selling assets from the port -- in common language, speculating on the public lands of the port of Coruña -- implies the submission of Feijóo and the People's Party to the state and the defence of the Greek interests. It also involves accepting the discrimination of the Coruña against Valencia, where the State has accepted the forgiveness of the debt despite being much higher, and it involves acting more like a real estate promoter, in service of a new urban platoon in the Coruña we know well, than as President of Galicia. [[Applause]] To bid for rail access is the obligation of the State, to forgive the debt of the port of Coruña is the obligation of the State because we are not going to admit any comparative aggravations with regard to Valencia. Let's stop assaults between PP and PSOE led by President Feijóo and comply with the agreements with the people of this Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u291	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u292	How right I was in my first intervention when I said they had a parallel reality! Because whoever rules with the Socialist Party is you, in the Council of the Crown, and who supports the Council of the Crown is you. But what do you tell me? [[Applause]] Since Galician Union if we're consistent, we're consistent. Of course, that's how it governs, with documents, this is work, this is much more difficult, much more hours than a sign...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u293	Quiet, Mr. Rivas, please. Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u294	...that it does take work and it's how the problems are solved. And we're consistent because it goes on the protocol line in 2018 and, of course, the train -- I've already said it -- goes along with the maritime facade, without trains to the Langosteira, we can't free the docks of the Coruña, we can't develop the maritime facade, the train is key, essential. Now he's on track, but, look, he's not solved, you have to approve the construction project, if you do it now, and you have to start the expropriations already, before you bid. So we have to see administrative progress, which I didn't hear from you. So for the train there are next generation funds, as we've come to admit from the Galician Union, but there's a lot of work still ahead to bid, you have to carry out the corresponding procedures for the bid and you also have to take steps in the organization, of course. And, of course, the Galician Union is the administration that has proved really effective, the only one that has proved effective, and we have seen the absolute conformity of the mayor of the Coruña in that gathering fiasco on February 23 in Maria Pita: of course, profile the Ministry of Transport, profile, without compromising anything, and conformism of the Council of Coruña. We were the only ones who gave the face, the Galician Union, on February 23. And as a result of that we face on February 23rd, and as a result that President Feijóo, on March 10th, convinced the minister, there is a clear roadmap on the theme of Langosteira, a clear roadmap to develop the maritime facade, with these two agreements that I indicated to him: a framework agreement, where we will develop a whole roadmap to develop in three phases; and a specific agreement to immediately sign and develop immediately the drummer's wharf. This is work and it's solid and coherent proposals to ensure the development of the maritime facade. As soon as we are in a unique opportunity to develop and make available to the neighbours of the Coruña 480,000 meters of surface and, of course, I insist, channelled, unsolved definitely, the train, because you have to approve the project and start the expropriations before biding, you have to recover the maritime facade: 20 million euros from Junta de Galicia, that we put on the table last Friday, concrete, concrete sites, concrete budget splits, concrete annualities, a first phase, that of Battery; the second phase, Calvo Sotelo; next, San Diego phase, if you develop the previous ones. I tell you -- you, or not for the not -- what will the Crown Deputy do, where do they cogobernan? Apply the story, as my grandmother said. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u295	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the balance made by the Government of Greece of the operation of the City of Culture of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u296	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Verea Fraiz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u297	Thank you, President. Counsellor, if there is a project in Galicia, an infrastructure, which in the last 20 years has generated major debates, even facing positions, is undoubtedly the city of culture: architectural debates, artistic debates, different positions of cultural projects, debates as well as economic and even ethical, for the economic cost of having an investment of these dimensions. I think, despite the fact that there were defenders and critics, logically, in each of these debates, I think it is fair to acknowledge that all governments that have managed, or had management obligations on the City of Culture, acted in good faith with the best intentions for the project to evolve in the best possible way. Every government, within its circumstances of the time, of the last twenty years, with great economic, social and political changes, but the great contribution of all these governments, I believe that it is undoubtedly the change of perspective that the Galician society has today had on the City of Culture, and that has evolved from a certain distance to the integration, today, of the City of Culture within the Galician society, and specifically within the Greek cultural ecosystem, with those objectives of being, or trying to be, that motor of cultural reference contents, that infrastructure, too, that leaves a generation of Greeks, ours, for generations to come. In this context, it takes ten years to open the doors of the City of Culture, and therefore 10 years of difficulty, with an economic crisis in the middle, a health crisis that we are experiencing, in addition to that the City of Culture itself has managed year by year improving the number of visitors, the programming numbers, ultimately the quality of the cultural programming itself. But, as I say, in this context, in this celebration or in this fulfilment of these ten years, the People's Parliamentary Group understands that it is a good time for the Government, its council, to be able to make a balance, an assessment, a status of this first decade of operation of the City of Culture; ultimately, what the situation is after these early years of operation of the City of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u298	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. Mr. Rodríguez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u299	Thank you very much, sir. The truth is, you made a very successful reflection on the City of Culture project, which ten years ago, on January 11, 2011, was inaugurated. During these ten years, just as in the ten years prior to this inauguration, it was a cause for a lot of debate, for a lot of controversy, for hundreds of thousands of pages in the media and for a lot of contrasted opinions and a strong debate, and it also had to boost its cultural activity in a difficult period, in a decade of deep economic crisis, where public resources, obviously, had to invest in detail and had to, in some way, devote themselves to those matters of highest social and political priority. It wasn't easy, actually, it wasn't easy to push this project over this decade, and it touched on government responsibility Feijóo. We had to make brave decisions, hard decisions, paralyze buildings started, design a strategic plan and, as we often say and say a lot, we had to do more with less, have a lot of imagination and a lot of political project to be able, after 10 years, to present a balance which I think has a high level of satisfaction from the perspective of quantifying the number of visitors -- we are about 6 million visitors in these 10 years -- there were around 5,000 activities and events, but perhaps the most significant in these 10 years is that we were able to bring this project closer to citizenship and, to some extent, that the citizens, the Greeks and the cultural sector felt it as something own and that the functionality that was gradually implemented was slowing down on the whole of citizenship. In these 10 years, after this 10-year balance sheet has been presented, we also have to say that there is very positive data. In fact, it was chosen as Galicia's best cultural proposal in the year 2020 by the Observatory of the prestigious Contemporary Foundation. And we also did a study on social accounting that tells us that public investments here are practically doubled, with an annual value of around 24 million euros. We're having a cultural programming of relative success or rather well assumed by citizenship. For example, the last exhibition opened, Pharaoh, from the opening date, on March 26, until yesterday, he had 17,000 visitors, which is a data I think is very positive. But most importantly, we were able to change that perception and shut down a debate that we thought didn't make much sense, because we're facing a great cultural infrastructure. We've had 10 years to consolidate a project, we've got another 10 years ahead, we're going to make a strategic plan that wants to launch...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u300	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u301	...the future of the City of Culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u302	...Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u303	...that, as I said at the beginning, a great cultural project is under way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u304	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u305	...to the whole country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u306	Thank you very much. The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, you have the floor. Mr. Verea Fraiz has the floor for the reply. -- I'm sorry --.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u307	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you share this parliamentary group's analysis, and we also share that vision of challenge these first 10 years, with that objective of trying to achieve and generate that illusion for a project that is unique and, like all single projects, as obviously discussed. We continue to maintain that objective of turning it into that great cultural infrastructure for all of Galicia. It is primarily the responsibility of the autonomous administration but also of all public officials to work to consolidate the project and integral power, as I said on the first turn, not only in the Greek society, in its broadest sense, but also in the Greek cultural ecosystem. He spoke and made a balance, in these minutes, about the first decade, about the first 10 years. I'd like this parliamentary group to know, if you could, the general lines, the master lines, the main strategic lines that the Council has prepared, which it has prepared for the Autonomic Administration, for the short and medium term of the City of Culture in the coming years. Once this first challenge is over, these first 10 years, the challenge must be revalidated, even more demandingly. And therefore, this parliamentary group would like to know the general lines of operation of the City of Culture for, as I say, the short and medium term, in that environment of a health crisis and also of the Xacobeo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u308	Thank you, Mr Verea. For the Government's reply -- now yes -- the Councillor for Culture, Education and University has the floor, Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u309	Thank you very much, sir. As we said, we had 10 years where we had to consolidate a project with a development of a strategic plan. We have another 10 years ahead, with a second strategic plan that obviously wants to set a roadmap so that the functional, social, cultural project of the City of Culture can be consolidated within Galicia and develop its function as a framework of absolute normality. As for this second strategic plan, we're about to finish its diagnosis, and what we have to do is make it very participatory; we're taking the opinion of the citizenry, we have 600 surveys that are being done. There were also working groups and a work program with 60 experts and, as I say, this open and participatory process, to some extent, they're fixing the roadmap of this set. Obviously, a key factor is to continue to maintain ambitious, plural, diverse programming for all audiences, which I think is working in recent years. We just gave the data from the last exhibition, but there were exhibitions of great success: Galicia from Us to Us, the exhibition of Pardo Day, many activities that are developing... We want it to be a content factory, that is, cultural content is produced that can be spread from the City of Culture through the whole of the Galician geography, decentralizing the production that can and must be done here. We also have a significant challenge, which is the launch of the Fontán building, an inter-university research centre in which the three Greek universities participate and which also has a research centre in the field of heritage, in this case of the CSIC, which we want to consolidate as a focus of research in areas such as landscape, culture, heritage... when it's working, we calculate around 200 people who can perform their research tasks here. We also want to end humanization, which is in very advanced stage, improve accessibility, and after direct connection with AP-9 we have to improve and further improve the peonile connection to the historic center of Compostela. And, of course, the connection to Santiago's Way. The Gaiás Mount plays the Silver Way on one of its sides and we are favoring, we want to integrate the Way of Santiago into the City of Culture. Finally, I believe that, in this small and medium-term perspective, the most significant and most important is that a cultural infrastructure of the highest architectural level -- questionable, undoubtedly, like the great projects that are being developed -- we have finally been able, progressively, step by step and with the help of many people and very many collectives, to go normalizing life, the presence, the role and use of the City of Culture, to the point that we can say, quietly, that Galicia today feels like its City of Culture. After very complex moments today Galicia feels like its City of Culture, which makes use and has a role...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u310	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u311	...clearly in the cultural system, but if you hurry up and if you allow me,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u312	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u313	...to the whole of Greek society.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u314	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u315	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-14-DSPG032.u316	Finished the agenda points, we finished the session. Thank you very much.
