ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago, who does so by Mr Pedro Puy Fraga, has justified the non-appropriation and delegation of vote on the basis of Rule 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure. The Bureau authorized this delegation to vote yesterday. And, no more, we go into the agenda with the first point. Election of members of the Board of Directors of the Galician Radio Corporation Television At its meeting on 15 May 2021 the Bureau of the Parliament, hearing the Speaker's Board of Auditors, initiated the election of 6 members of the Council of the Galician Radio Television Corporation in accordance with Article 2 of its regulatory rules, rules adopted by the Bureau Agreement of 5 March 2012 and published in the Official Bulletin of Parliament number 654. Ended the deadline for the submission of candidates' proposals, and subject to the appearances in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 of the rules at the session of the Standing Committee on Non-legislative Control of CRTVG on June 23, the Bureau at its meeting on June 29 has drawn up a closed list of the names of the six persons proposed and the parliamentary groups which proposed them, as required by Article 4 of the Rules of Bulletin No. 499 of Parliament, which are adjusted to the ballot which is being distributed to their lordships. In accordance with Article 5 of the rules of election, the pre-voting debate will consist of the intervention of each parliamentary group to determine its position on the application submitted. All of this for a maximum of 5 minutes. Upon completion of the proceedings, the vote shall be taken in accordance with Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 91(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure, and shall be made by means of the alphabetical order of names. The vote shall be taken as follows: each Member shall, after the nomination, deposit his ballot in the ballot box prepared for this purpose. Votes in favour by entering the paper containing the names of the candidates marked with a distinctive sign the name or names chosen up to a maximum of 6. The paperwork on which more than 6 names are marked will be considered empty and the one on which there is no marked name. They will be elected or elected by candidates who obtain most of the two-thirds, that is, 50 votes. And therefore, before proceeding with this call, the round I previously reported five minutes from the parliamentary groups. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group begins this turn, and for that we have the floor of Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. To begin by announcing that from the Socialist Group we will show our support, our vote in favour of all candidates called to comply with this new mandate of CRTVG, regardless of the proposed group. Well, we've had the opportunity to evaluate their suitability, evaluate and solve all the doubts we had in the Control Commission two weeks ago, so what's left is to wish them all luck, all the facts. And, yes, it is necessary to remember today the great, enormous, responsibility they have before them to work and finally achieve a plural CRTVG, public service and quality service of all the Greeks and the Greeks. And in this sense, there is, as you know, a great, grand, pending subject, which is to comply with the law, with a law of public media which has been approved for a decade and whose non-compliances have been denounced, claiming, demanding different groups, the Committee on Enterprise, the workers and workers, and which they have even needed just a few weeks ago to file a complaint to Valdoria, the valuator of the people, who will be accompanying us today in this plenary session. So it takes -- the great subject pending this new mandate of the Governing Council -- to comply with that Public Media Act and to adopt once and for all that professional status and that briefing board that we've heard for years, if I don't remember badly, since 2016. About a year ago, the CEO of CRTVG said that it was a matter of months, that it was something immediate; well, here we are, ends one term, another starts. The year 2021 and that briefing board that guarantees the plurality and professional status of CRTVG is not yet a reality. Some of the candidates and candidates who were called upon to repeat in that Board of Directors in this new term two weeks ago announced to us in the Commission that 95% of the agreement was already closed, which was only 5% left. So it will not be so complicated to comply and achieve, if it can be, with the approval of this summer's statute and the briefing board that guarantees, as we said, the need for plurality. Plurality, a pending subject, but also proximity, is one of the reasons for being from the Greek media. In recent years we have seen the dismantling of territorial delegations. And even this summer we see, for example, how local disconnections are eliminated or how information and production is reduced in both radio and television programs. Another of the issues that concerns us and that is an important necessity is to act and materialize equality tools. Of course, the incident in April, last April in the Land Rober Tunai Show program, at first time, was a real shame, something very serious; to subject a girl to a situation of harassment, of machismo on public television. And especially if the mechanisms were not activated to be a recorded space and not to be issued, but after all, we are three months later waiting for those bold and firm announced measures that we do not know; we ask again and again and that they were not taken. Of course, it was the most serious episode but not the only one, since journalists, a collective representing over 200 professional women in communication in this country is coming to establish, communicate and transfer recommendations. Among them, for example, to deepen decisions, measures being taken at European level in the public sector, also in this country and at the state level, and that nothing is being done at CRTVG. For example, the creation of a figure, an equal agent who sees why there are no episodes like that of Land Rober, but also working in inclusive language. For working on the coverage given to you in the cultural or sports field, a coverage that we need is equal for men and women in sport or culture. To promote equalistic models, especially if we talk about spaces directed at girls and young people or small ones, and also about the treatment that should be given to cases of male violence. Well, then, we have to implement both information and entertainment programs or even advertising. In 5 minutes it doesn't take time to address all the problems you have at this time to CRTVG and all the work you have before you, as we said, the new advisors and advisors. But, of course, we're also very concerned -- and so we're demonstrating it -- by the decrease in advertising revenues we think motivated partly, or largely, by the decrease in content quality. Also very concerned about the precariousness of work, the conflict of work resolves in recent times the blow of complaint. And to finish by saying that one of the reasons to be the birthplace of the creation of the essence of the Greek media is to ensure the promotion, dissemination, care for our language, language and culture. Of course, decisions on how to end the Cultural Diary because they also walk and assume a retreat in a direction contrary to the reason of being and nature, to the sense of being on public television. Last Friday the director general also found the complaint, the suspicion of the Business Committee that they will privatize and outsource an own production space as necessary after 35 years of history as is Studio 5 on Radio Galega. Mr. Alfonso Sánchez Left confirmed that Studio 5 will be outsourced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u4	...and, of course, this does not mean taking steps towards compliance -- we said -- from nature to the need that we have to have quality and real public media in the service of citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u6	We want to remind them of the new advisors and advisors who have all this work. And end up wishing them, as we said, all luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. In this case, Noelia. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u8	Good morning to all of you. I wanted to ask you what purpose does Galicia count on public media, what is its ultimate goal. The birth of the Galician Radio and Television Company in 1984 stemmed from the state-of-the-art competition with a basic horizon: the launching of public media, audiovisual communication in the English language. The main objective, the fundamental objective was to contribute to the normalization of the Greek language, to the strengthening of the identity of the Greek people, to the promotion of the Greek culture and the drive of the audiovisual industry in our country. Almost nothing, very important challenges. Almost four decades later and after the corporate leap, in little or no way have changed these main objectives to meet. Those who configure -- I repeat -- their reason for being, the first and last reason of their own existence. And here's the great challenge ahead of the Board of Directors that we're going to vote here today. Our public media are facing a complicated situation today for multiple reasons. On the one hand because of the problem arising from the evolution of the audiovisual media system itself with new platforms, new formats, fragmentation of audiences, a smaller loyalty, a set of circumstances that already pose an important challenge for themselves. But, on the other hand, the corporation faces an even greater challenge, shaking the slab of the railroad control that has been exerted since the Galician Union on the editorial line. To therefore advance towards a public television that defends that which is detailed in the law itself as one of its guiding principles: objectivity, impartiality, veracity and informational neutrality. And these are the two main lines of work that will have to face the new board of directors out of popular sovereignty through the vote of this Parliament. The structure, operation, election, status and competence of the Corporation's Board of Directors are collected in the articulation of Galician Audiovisual Media Act 9/2011 between Articles 13 and 19. The board of directors is responsible for other tasks, approving the basic organization of the corporation, the basic guidelines on personnel, the annual business plan, annual memory, budgets, programming plans, and monitoring the fulfilment of the public service mission mandated by the framework mandate and the programme contract, and establishing the criteria governing the editorial direction. It's certainly a huge job because Galician Radio and Television Corporation is now at a critical moment in which the risk of losing forever the train of credibility and relevance. The picture is therefore not good, there is a continuing breach of the law of the 2015 framework mandate, the program contract is not developed, we do not have a professional status and there is a lack of an information board that guarantees the information independence of our public media. We are moving forward as we said the other day in this debate in the Galician Radio and Television Corporation Commission towards irrelevance of information. An irrelevance that comes from government control over the corporate editorial line, a control that goes far beyond the control itself many times, sometimes seeming to be that information programming is a mere extension of the Galician board press office. An information manipulation and a lack of political pluralism that has been repeatedly denounced by the collective Defends the Galician, who has just served three years of claim, and that has had to go to the People's Valley and now we're going to have a debate also on the complaints received by the People's Valley this year, in the absence of the company's management. We have a high-quality programming that is relegated to impossible times and often to the second channel, language abuse is a problem that we have discussed in committee on various occasions and that is progressing; we have seen interviews in Spanish to people in Galicia and we are seeing a language neglected systematically in entertainment programs. On the other hand, production itself is being reduced to the minimum expression and if practically all of the production itself has been derived externally called externally, which does not cease to be an alien production, with the obvious editorial control problems derived from this type of production and which are being transferred in its maximum expression in the Land Rober program that the Socialist Party's companion has just mentioned shortly. And they are faced with the obligation to release the unanimous agreement of this Parliament for the establishment of the recently approved Xabarin channel here in the Committee on the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, which has also systematically denied its viability. Today we are going to vote here 6 names: Ana Isabel Peón Piñeiro, Luis de Mata, Hixinio Meijide, Alfonso Cabaleiro, Irene Viña Bravo and Carme Vidal. In his hand, in the hands of these six people -- if they're elected by this House -- he's reverting the current situation and making the Corporation a medium of reference in this country. I'm therefore as I said at the beginning many of the challenges ahead. I only wish your board of directors would not be responsible for giving the final stockpiling to the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, but rather for starting to reassemble it. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u9	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u10	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. TVG is an audience leader throughout the week, reaching 96.2 percent of the Greek homes and more than 720,000 people contacted this media every day last year. As for Radio Galega closed the season 2020-2021 with the greatest audience results of its historic series and more than 220,000 people contacted each day last year with some of its stations. More than 12 million visitors had the digital channel. This great support, this great understanding that the Galician society has with Television and Radio Galega, makes governments, the leadership of CRTVG and all the workers to have a great deal of responsibility. A responsibility that's even greater because we're talking about a public media and, therefore, you have to carry out your public service mission. A mission which is also entrusted in a very special way to the board of directors, which, as has already been mentioned here in Galicia's Public Media Act, has the role, if it is established there, of being the director and also controlling CRTVG. A law referring to the board of directors in its articles 12 to 19, which speaks of which are the governing bodies, the functions of the council and the election of those members. Today's election, which has to be approved by 2/3, is a list that was presented by the parliamentary groups in relation to the representativeness they have here in the House and after having listened to them in the CRTVG Control Committee. After listening to them -- worth redundancy -- we came to the conclusion from the People's Parliamentary Group that, in fact, the six candidates presented have all the characteristics needed for their support. They have credible experience, recognized prestige, and we want them to continue working on the line that's been made by the current board of directors. An administrative council that, Mrs. Otero, is working on the law, on the enforcement of the law, and I'm also telling the Block; but it's funny that since the PSOE you speak here about compliance with the law by CRTVG, with which you are falling on Spanish television that even the Constitutional Court calls you to attention and cancels the appointment of your sole administrator. It's funny, here if you're complying with the law. [[Applause]] Look, this board of directors, which is up to now, the first one with the new law, has put in place internal regulatory rules, the rules governing audiovisual commercial communication, the criteria governing the editorial direction, the guidelines on staff and as mentioned here, the Professional Statute and the Information Council are very advanced. But I also find it very relevant to say that all decisions have been made unanimously. And of course, working unanimously may take longer, but I would like to and sincerely wish that the Board of Directors now taking possession, continue working for that unanimity, continue working for the agreements. An agreement of which, by the way, I believe we must congratulate ourselves in this House, because this time, the names of the board of directors, of the members of the council have been agreed unanimously. I think that's going to be good for all the Greeks and the Greeks and for the public media in Galicia. A board of directors that receives a television and a corporation that is the leader in hearings as mentioned here, that has the healthy accounts, the 2020 accounts presented and last week in the House of Commons reflect that it has been 12 years in surplus, in this case 1.9 million euros, the payment deadline is 20 days and since 2012 there is no bank debt. And this is very important because thanks to this economic situation, CRTVG has been able to carry out the scanning process that makes it possible for it to be vanguard and that it can face the future, an uncertain future for audiovisual media where technological advances are vertiginous and where the tastes of audience consumption are changing also constantly. I think this is one of the great challenges of the new Board of Directors, and I wish you very much luck to work on them. In order for them to continue to work on equality where Galician Television, CRTVG has had an equal commission on the Board of Directors for more than 10 years. Like anyone said 10 days ago, the Spanish TV has it. But it is necessary to continue working and if it is true that measures have been taken after the last incident, incidents which unfortunately cannot be avoided, but that CRTVG in the field of equality is being vanguarded and, in fact, is having prizes at Galicia level and at all sectors. A subject also of audiovisual support where CRTVG is being one of the biggest supports for our audiovisual industry and our audiovisual industry to spread around the world. Nothing else. Very lucky to the advisors and advisors who will take possession, if they are elected today, that I suppose they will be because we all show that provision already, and we will continue to work in all areas for public audiovisual media, who carry out their public service mission as they are doing in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u11	Thank you, Mrs Arias. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] I don't know if I've played the bell twice or three times, I'm going to play a third because this is a consensual vote, not the devil. Because once we start voting, no one can enter the room. And the services of the House that control this when we start... [[Pause.]] I suppose they're already in possession of the paperwork. If anyone doesn't have to tell us. They all have it, perfect. Well, then we started. I ask the Vice-President first and the Vice-Secretary to take the ballot box for the collection of the papers, and that the secretary proceed with the call of her lordships. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u12	Thank you. Did they all...? Isn't there anyone left without a vote? Well, let's go to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u13	Well, the ballot is that 71 people voted, and votes in favour of Don Alfonso Cabaleiro Durán, 71; votes in favour of Don Luis de la Mata Cantó, 71; votes in favour of Don Higinio Meijide Gómez, 71; votes in favour of Don Ana Isabel Peón Piñeiro, 71; votes in favour of Don María del Carmen Vidal Lage, 71; and votes in favour of Don Irene Viña Bravo, 71. Thus, the majority of them are all proclaimed don Alfonso Cabaleiro Durán, don Luis de la Mata Cantó, don Higinio Meijide Gomez, don Ana Isabel Peón Piñeiro, don María del Carmen Vidal Lage and dona Irene Viña Bravo advisors to Radio Television in Galicia with this result. In good time to them and good luck. Annual report of the People's Valedor for the year 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u14	We have concluded this vote and we continue with the agenda, which is the people's annual report for the year 2020, pursuant to the third regulatory standard for relations between Parliament and the people's Valedor, adopted by the Bureau on 28 May 1991. The debate of the plenary of the annual report will be adjusted to the following procedure: the valet will present a summary of the report before the Committee on Petitions on 2 July 2021. At the end of the session, the valet will leave the sitting room and the Members will begin their deliberations. In accordance with the order of action provided for in Article 80.1 of the Rules of Procedure, representatives of each parliamentary group may intervene for a maximum of 10 minutes each to determine their position on the report submitted. As a result of this debate, no motions for resolutions can be tabled because they are informative, without prejudice to subsequent regulatory initiatives. For that I pray the vice president first to accompany the Valorative lady to the rostrum of speakers to make her intervention before the plenary. Her word is Maria Dolores Fernández Galliño, a valet of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u15	Good morning, President of the Galician Parliament and Members of the Bureau of Parliament, Members and Members of Parliament. The year 2020 was marked by the coronovirus pandemic of the Covid-19, which presented unique consequences for its magnitude worldwide, with a high cost of human life and impact on people's health, and with important economic, social, cultural, political consequences, even if it's not the first disaster, nor will it be the last thing to do with humanity. What if you've taught us history -- and all studies on this matter coincide -- is that in a disaster human rights are compromised. From one day to another we enter a phase of confinement and pending the number of contagions, care pressure, passes, queues to ask for help, numbers of unemployed. In our lives there were words and expressions such as confinement, escalation, outbreak, mask, grom, wave, quarantine, perimeter closures... Valdoria began to receive complaints and calls in which situations arising from confinement, limitations on freedom of movement and assembly, the health and socio-sanitary situation, the closure of economic activity, protection measures, diagnostic evidence of covid-19, the absence of income, the cut-off of basic supplies. The situation motivated by the pandemic and which day-to-day arrived at us in the institution also prompted the opening of several investigations of the office which during the period from 14 March to 21 June were 33, compared to 3 of the same period of the previous year. These affected, among others, victims of gender-based violence, people who use elderly residences, people with functional diversity, the protection of health and social services -- including services to help in the home of dependent people -- people who receive social inclusion income, housing measures, support to the victims of the disease, access to information on cover-19 to deaf people, support to particularly disadvantaged economic sectors, self-consumer activities or fairs and proximity markets. A total of 222 complaints and specific investigations received from March 14 to June 21. As a matter of fact, we continue with the ordinary processing of complaints, which, without being specific to curfew, have continued to be received during those months and months thereafter. The situation generated by the first confinement and subsequent restrictions gave rise to a logical concern about the rightfulness of rights, especially those of the most vulnerable. The work of the institution has increased in every way. As this shows, the following quantitative data can be highlighted: The number of cases increased by 28%, from 2,276 in 2019 to 2,912 in 2020. It increased the number of people who asked for care or advice on the margins of complaints files, were 5,497 in 2019 and 7,526 in 2020, 37% more. It slightly increased the number of events, from 11,747 in 2019, to 12,913 in 2020, 10% more. It increased the number of informal actions, from 67 in 2019, to 78 in 2020, by 16% more. The number of resolutions increased by 69%, from 95% in 2019 to 161 in 2020. The increase affects most areas. It also increased the percentage of reminders of legal duties, recommendations and accepted suggestions, almost all resolutions formulated and answered, in particular 93%. You have increased the number of positive conclusions by 59%. The number of issues has increased considerably with the call for escalation to the end of the year, the reason is that many complaints are directly or indirectly related to the covid-19. By entering a qualitative analysis, an intense activity is found in all the areas to which the decalogue that this valet presented in its possession is referred, committed to paying special attention. With regard to gender equality, complaints about night safety in the U.S.C. field have been processed with positive results, information on aid to victims of gender violence, extensions due to the cover of post-doctoral contracts of researchers who have enjoyed maternity leave or child care surpluses, and a new action was opened by this year 2021 based on the principle of zero maternity cost in relation to the aid to complete post-doctoral training and that, ultimately, women researchers do not have to choose between being mothers and their careers. He went on very active, we talk about Feminism, virtual space on the institutional web. Institutional activities were carried out on the occasion of the days dedicated to the fight for gender equality, February 11th, February 22nd, March 8th, May 28th, September 23rd and November 25th. The first edition of the People's Valuable Annual Prize on Gender Equality for Degree End Jobs and Master's End Jobs was called. A total of 59 studies were presented, and the gender functions were centralized in an adviser. As for the right of access to women's justice, a complaint has been opened on its own initiative regarding the absence of protocols on suspensions of criminal proceedings because of the maternity leave of the intervener's lawyer, about which it is necessary to say that the Senate has just passed a legislative reform to resolve this issue. Here is another complaint about compliance with the principle of informal legal unit of action in family processes with minor children. As for violence and harassment in organizations, a complaint was investigated about harassment in Sergas, which ended with a suggestion to introduce a confidential adviser or adviser. The rights of persons with disabilities have been particularly affected by the health situation, so they have been informed about the impact of the pandemic on persons with disabilities and the need to respect the right of certain persons with functional diversity to walk on confinement. A complaint from the Association of Georges was received with a positive result as well in relation to the health situation. We made recommendations, resolutions, reminders of legal duties and concluded positively complaints on issues such as delays in the assessment of disability and dependence, delays in the effectiveness of approved services and on accessibility. LGTBI people also suffered in particular from the situation caused by the pandemic of Covid-19. The situation of LGTBI people living in home confinement with a family that does not accept their orientation or identity, or in general that they have to live in spaces where that orientation or identity is not recognized by other people. The loneliness situation of senior LGTBIs in residences, the impossibility of continuing meetings in support groups for LGTBIs, the paralysis of judicial proceedings during the first wave of the pandemic, which determined the delay in the sex exchange records. All these issues were dealt with in meetings with associations to defend the rights of LGTBI people. We filed a complaint by the media about the existence of a judicial procedure for the exchange of registrant sex, with unfavorable report, for not having the applicant a diagnosis of dysphoria. We have also dealt with an action which we refer to the Ombudsman, with a report on the procedure for the formal rectification of the sex mention of persons, which varies depending on the civil registry office which runs the application, to the absence of a regulation which unites the requirements for the statutory correction of the sex mention and to provide the procedure of speed and effectiveness, considering in addition the current health crisis situation which has hampered the procedure for not having regard to essential services. As far as discrimination against the Roma community is concerned, complaints have been raised about the right to racial non-discrimination or vulnerability. At this point of the decade, it is noteworthy that a number of days are held in collaboration with the Galician Council of Culture and the Gypsy Secretariat Foundation on the Gypsy People: for a more egalitarian society. As for the rights of people in a vulnerable situation and the fight against aporophobia, we have acted in relation to alleged evictions of people in a vulnerable situation and also in relation to denial, suspension, withdrawal or violation of the income of self-inclusion. As for the rights of older people, in addition to dealing with particular complaints and concerns about the situation in residential centres because of the health crisis, this led us to initiate a comprehensive investigation, in which we pointed out the concern about the difficulties that were going through the residential centers. We asked by means of protection, by diagnostic evidence, by the criterion of sending the sick to a hospital or keeping them in their own or other residence, by the sufficient care staff in residences, by information to families or close relatives, and, later on, by the existence of an instrument that would allow personal contacts or dismissal in cases of anticipated death. There were also actions on solid law and institutions, transparency and good governance, issues also affected by the pandemic. The principles on the protection and promotion of the institution of the Ombudsman, the Venice Principles of 2019, clearly state that the institutions of the Ombudsman of the People have an important role to play in strengthening democracy rule of law, good administration and the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The collaboration of the administrations was good, as reminders were reduced due to delays in issuing the required reports and the percentage of resolutions of the valet accepted with respect to rejected ones was also increased. Institutional collaboration is based on the agreements we have signed with the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo, the FEGAMP, the three universities of Galicia and the Council of Culture. This collaboration strengthens democratic culture and efficiency in the performance of the administration, for example in the complaint concerning the source of Mondariz Balneario's Tronchouse. And, if we look at a full area of action, the problem of self-defeating people in a vulnerable situation, which we positively conclude when the date of the launch is approaching and at the same time the rental bonus of the Galician Union, or we negotiate social rent with the banking entity, or asset manager, or we negotiate some other economic aid. I will finish this summary with linguistic rights, an area where the institution is very committed, with a special dedication to promoting the right to normalization of Greek as Galicia's own language. In 2020, 86 complaints were filed in defence of the use of Greek, with a high degree of positive response and responsiveness by the administrations involved. The intensive activity and collaboration of the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization and the Linguistic Rights Observatory, language defence bodies that promoted 74 complaints, 77% of the cases dealt with in the area of linguistic crimes. I will finish as I began, the year 2020 has been a difficult year for human rights, which obliges the institution of the people's valet and all administrations to respond to the same level of commitment and responsibility with which the citizen has also responded to the pandemic. The difficulties in the pursuit of human rights must not lead to discouragement, but to reinforce our commitment. We will not fail to pay attention to the previous problems, which were exacerbated by the situation of the pandemic, such as equality of women and men, gender violence, violence and harassment, human exploitation, persons with disabilities, older people, discrimination, disadvantaged groups, digital rights, solid institutions and the environment. The pandemic also forced us to focus especially on aspects such as the health system, the social and health services, decent work and the digital divide. The increase in virtual communications has seen the digital divide that many people suffer, women, older people, people in rural and non-urban coastal areas and families with little income. In any case, the previous and new problems must be tackled with a human rights approach, recognized and protected by the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, a human rights approach that must be at the heart of public policies towards the process of economic, social and labour reconstruction following the pandemic of Covid-19. Nothing better for these purposes than to come back to the promises of the future that mankind as a whole has proposed in the resolution of the United Nations General Assembly: To transform our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Back to the 2030 Agenda so that mankind's progress won't stop and leave no one behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u16	Thank you very much, Valorante. The second vice-president will accompany the valet lady of the people, who, due to the health measures by the coward-19, will not follow the speeches of the parliamentary groups from the guest gallery, as it was traditional, but will do it from a room through television with her team of collaborators. Thank you very much. We then begin the round of parliamentary groups to set positions and, first of all, to represent the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, has the floor to Mrs Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u17	Thank you very much again. I still don't see where the clock is, to locate myself, I don't see anything. [[Laughter]] Ah, here, okay, it's just that if I don't go through all the time. Thank you, and forgive me. Thanks a lot to the valedora. A year ago, from this parliamentary group, almost a year ago, in the voice of our unforgettable and dear Isaura, we put precisely the emphasis on the very high number of complaints that mainly affected the memory of the previous year of what the valet reported to the Health Council and the Social Policy Council. And history repeats itself this year and also puts the emphasis on the attention being given to our greatest and greatest in the residences, even with performances of office and research by the Valedoría. Some attention calls that have not yet been given to a pandemic situation but that, in the memory that we are now dealing with about 2020, we have already entered full in that year marked by cowardice and its consequences; and that it defines in a very powerful way the valet, defining as a real disaster the experienced and happened with the health crisis and the resulting crises. We also agreed with that reading that I had a serious setback in everything that has to do with human rights, especially for the most vulnerable. We therefore want to begin by valuing and transferring thanks for our efforts to the valet and your entire team. In addition, in the Commission, we were moved by the harshness, also in staff and professionals, of having to deal with situations of real emergency during the pandemic and of having done so in addition with the empathy that they moved us during the reading of that report in the Committee on Petitions. One year -- as the valet reported -- where the complaints increased, the number of citizens and citizens who went and who had to go to the Valedoria to essentially file complaints about the Health Council, 33%; followed very closely also by the Social Policy Council, 20%. And we both have to say that they notice those numbers that more than half of the Galicians and the Greeks who are forced to travel to the Valedoría have to do with problems related to health and social policies; and followed on that podium also by the Council of Culture, Education and University. We don't want to stop socialists and socialists in the cold of numbers, but if we think that one more year, given that the figures and problems are repeated, these percentages illustrate where the weaknesses are, where the problems are and where they are -- or rather not -- the will of this Government of Galician Union. What is about interpreting this memory and what we have before us is an X-ray, a photograph almost in real time of what is the situation of human rights in our country. And it shows and notes this speech that the socialists and the socialists have been defending for so long -- that it's not a whim, it's not some idea, it's nothing more ideological -- as this annual report shows us to see how there is no society that resists. And the living must learn and take note without the solidity of a system based on social justice. Decommissioning policies, privatization policies like in residences these years, privatization of the care of the biggest and the most vulnerable and the most vulnerable are billed and here it is. Every complaint we also think of individual health care, the treatment of wings and our seniors in residences, education, when a Welshman or a Welshman travels and presents this complaint actually represents a major problem that collectively affects citizenship. And so with that ambition you also have to take care of those complaints -- we think -- the valuator of the people. If there's one thing we want to recognize for another year, it's the same equality effort that's doing your valedour from the moment you arrived at the institution, one more year with multiple initiatives. And in this Parliament it will be passed -- we expect -- because that law is so necessary to end the inequality that women suffer in the field of science, research and university. For here comes the valet, because it took the initiative, the front collecting various complaints and also acting on its own for this inequality that women researchers suffer. We think that this is the course, the perfect cycle, to pick up the problems and problems on the streets that are legislated from this Parliament. Back in health care, we obviously recognized that good thing to do in the matter of equality, in the area of health highlighted with more complaints, and pouring this memory down by the kid. And I also want to go ahead with the answer, interpretation or justification that was given by the Commission from the People's Parliamentary Group, saying that, of course, it's normal that it's the department with more complaints because we're many of the Greeks for many years that we've also used health care. Indeed, but how do we explain that if we are many and many of those who use health care that among the complaints we find in this report is this decision to give publicity to a 902 payment number for users of Sergas in the midst of a health crisis, in full emergency health care? And another year we're also going around with the waiting lists, and in this memory the same disappearance of those people who refuse to be involved in private centers and that this government automatically passes through that non-structural waiting list. A limbo where no maximum legal waiting times have been applied. In the 2019 Report this problem had already appeared, Valedoria indicated the need to set a maximum deadline. And this year again we find these complaints, yes, with a somewhat imprecise answer from the council but in which Valedoria interprets that the commitment will be to care for these patients within a year. It also collects the difficulties of finding appointments to be attended in health centers, the collapse of telephone lines or the problem of users and users who need presence care. There's no time to analyze each subject for the most part, but it's also essential to focus on dwellings with warnings, research on their own initiative. One more year we read about the regrettable practices and abuse of suggestions, the lack of staff, the insufficiency of jeriatrics, the shortage of public squares, the delays in the allocation of plaza, or that the same is granted far from the place of residence. We arrived here a year after the pandemic without being able to give the virus overboard, with the photograph of the great vulnerability that we and our biggest ones suffer. And despite living in a country with particularly important aging figures, we don't have the rest of any law that embraces them, nor do we have the powers to correct the policies and practices that come out of our shames. We've also found new complaints about dependency ratings, they've increased in addition to actually waiting times. They recommended that the Social Policy Council take the necessary measures to correct these delays. In judicial matters, they warn of the undeniable reality that there is no equality in access to the judicial profession. The problem at the Galician Institute of Legal Medicine, which intervenes in family court proceedings by reporting on the suitability of custody and custody of minors, or in criminal proceedings with a minor. They recall that there are 7 delegations in Galicia in the main cities. And we've been protesting from the Socialist Group, they have an enormous amount of work that causes two years' delay in judicial proceedings. In the area of culture, most complaints refer to the lack of protection of the important Greek cultural heritage. Nothing surprises us that the issue of heritage is one of the pending subjects. And we encourage the Council of Culture, Education and University to read carefully because the introductory chapter on the culture of this memory is very powerful. It speaks of the fact that most censored files are answered, they are delayed; therefore, it regrets the lack of information on the handling of complaints. It produces -- literally says -- a particular discomfort to people or associations in defending the heritage to the lack of response. It would also be important to stop in language matters, in the numerous complaints also referred to in education. An important element is everything that has to do with special education. And we don't want to end up without talking about rights -- the valet -- LGBTI, in a situation besides confinement, had to deal with situations of a lot of difficulty for LBTBI people, often confined to an environment where they were experiencing discrimination. From the Socialist Group a few days ago we asked and urged the General Secretariat of Equality to comply and develop the Law for the real equality of rights of gay, lesbian, transsexual and intersexual persons of Galicia in 2014. Alerting the increase of aggression and situations of discrimination for this collective, two days before the unfortunate and terrible murder of Samuel Luiz took place in Coruña. So we also end up with the importance of continuing to work on these people's rights. And encouraging -- as we said -- the Valdoria to be powerful, ambitious and bear in mind that every complaint -- as we said -- represents a collective surety. Thank you very much. And insist on that recognition of the hard work of pandemics for the entire Valdoria team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Castro García has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u19	Well, good morning. Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning to the valet. And first of all, thank you for your work, which is of course reflected in this report. Well, every time a person or a collective comes into contact with the People's Valley, it's a sample that something goes wrong, that there's a problem that can be smaller, bigger, and it can affect more or less people, but it has to be solved to improve the quality of life of those people who demand it. And obviously it's impossible that in a society there is no complaint, and more in a pandemic year, so the growth of 28% of the issues and complaints compared to 2019 is understandable. Yes, it does not take away the same problems that we've seen year after year; and that, of course, we'll comment soon. But before we begin, we would like to highlight two aspects of the report, one that we like most and one that we like less. As we've already said, one that we like to see is how more and more people communicate with the People's Valdoria in Greek, already rising to 73% and which already shows almost a trend, a pattern that more and more people assume our language to communicate with the Valdoria. And then there's another one that we don't like so much, as is that huge differentiation of complaints between the urban world and the rural world. Of course, it is understood that more people live in the urban world, but that huge differentiation between 86% and 14% seems to us to be a kind of evidence that there is a great ignorance in the institution in the rural world, so since the BNG we ask you to increase this promotion of the institution in the rural world. Because, whatever it is, you can act right or you can act wrong, but if they don't know you won't be able to act. Having said this, and knowing the time we have to talk, we would like to stop mostly in three areas. So when I was preparing this I said: to see how I do, in which three areas I stop and to see how I look for the argument to speak of those three areas. Why do I choose those three areas? For the truth is it was pretty easy, it was pretty easy because it was as easy as going to the most complaints they have or where Valdoria gives that touch of attention in a clearer way. So what were those three areas? Well, to the surprise of no one and as already pointed out: health, social policy and education; but also with serious criticism and complaints about the housing. And what does the report say about these three areas? So then, we could go over and sum it up, come up and say a little bit and sadly what we've always seen, what we've been saying to the Board of Galicia for years, and that we've also continued to see, that or the report mind -- something that I think we all and everyone here don't think about it, I think --. Or that when we spent our whole life criticizing his entire model of public housing, his model of residence, or his model of health, because we were right; and we were right because the report says the following, first, that health receives 1 out of every 3 complaints from the Autonomic Administration. What are they talking about? Well -- as you've already pointed out -- about the sad reality that waiting lists are, waiting lists that add up to half of the complaints about health. And it's because this report makes it clear again that the waiting lists in Sergas are inescapable, which cause serious problems to the patients and they live where they live and whatever their hospital reference center is. And if we see that in all reports that year after year is referred to the same because maybe it's very risky -- we can conclude that this can be the result of a certain model of health, a certain political party, a certain ideology that as much as you want to hide because it's there. And that he's getting more and more late, he's got more and more waiting list, and sadly he's got less and less public -- similar to what happens in the second most under attack, which is that of social policy, which we see here again delays and little presence of the public. And we must highlight the serious delays in the valuation of dependencies, a reality that led Valdoria to say things like -- I quote textually -- "recommend to the Social Policy Council that it had taken the necessary measures to correct delays in dependency assessments, and that affect affected persons by delaying the possible service or provision for autonomy and attention to dependency, accompanied by the following: increased waiting times for initial assessments and revisions, delays also occur after the act of valuation, i.e., formal approval and notification." So, after this, I think that little more has to be said to remind them, because I think it will always be okay, to remind them that behind these numbers, behind these numbers on the watch lists there are people, there are human beings who, as such, have a series of rights, fortunately. And that every day that passes, every week, every month, even every year that goes, if they continue without being cared for and caring for their quality of life diminishes. And since obviously we can't talk about all the areas of the report, even though for me it would be perfect, but that if we were here until night, for one thing or another, today we have quite a lot of very important things to talk about, because I said: let's go to what affects people more directly, and of course there's the housing, and this report finds two very serious things. The first is that today, and also in 2020, there are obviously still people who are challenged by the fact that they cannot cope with payments. But not only this, but the housing-related complaints rose by 57% in the pandemic year. And this is said very quickly, it's very hard and it's said very quickly, it's likely to take a minute, that it's 10 minutes, an hour and that we forget about it, but this is very hard. And we can't keep it from gravity, because, as I said before, people in Galicia are still out of their homes today because they can't cope with payments. [[Applause]] And the second is a classic, a sad classic that we will not tire of denouncing, which is the difficult access to housing, especially in youth, which, in addition, points out the report that says: "It makes a call to governments competent in housing matters -- we know who has them -- about the need to expand the public housing park in social rental and mobilize housing registered in Galicia's empty housing census." This statement directly goes against the policy of public housing of the Galician Union that needs to be modified, of course. On the contrary, we have some luck here, it's true, because at least at the time of writing we knew we had 1,900 dwellings in their places and I say lucky because by chance of life, in the end it seems that this country has a lot of chance, everything that has to do with government. Well, when the BNG asked to know where and how many dwellings there were for the council because we didn't run so lucky, but, well, things from the direct, it could be. And, knowing all this, since BNG we think that, after saying such serious realities as this, we are not faced with a touch of attention, a little call, we are faced with something very serious, and it's said again. It's here that I have to trust and say how Valedoria puts it: "The measures of improving access to housing are fundamental to improving the living conditions of people and families with little economic resources, it's a guarantee for the dignity and equality of people. Here's everything said, so I'm asking you directly, don't listen to us, don't listen to the Galician Nationalist Block, pay attention to the valet, pay attention to the institution of the People's Valley, because if they do it, it would undoubtedly bring about very positive changes for the people and the Greeks. Finally, making it clear already that, as I said before, I would like to talk about many more things, such as the lack of the right to connectivity in our country or that incredible and unsuspecting chance also that all complaints for violations of linguistic rights have to do with the impossibility of using Greek in certain fields, I would like to finish, thanking the work of the valet in the issue of feminism in its promotion in all areas and in its committed struggle with the objective of having a more feminist society. This sadly does not take away any further complaints about the violation of people's rights, women's rights, the mere fact of being women, and it is also pointed out the need to continue to legislate and continue to educate with a view to gender in many fields like justice. In view of this, and as I also told you in committee, we have three aspects, in summary form, and three recommendations: first, the need to promote the institution in the rural world; secondly, the need for the Valedoría to put an end to the idea that the complaints that appear in health, social policy, education or housing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u21	... they have to decrease dramatically; and finally, their commitment to feminism and to the promotion of education and legislation with a gender perspective remains so firm, because it will be beneficial for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Castro. You have the floor, for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u23	Thank you, President. Good morning. We welcome the valet and its team again and thank their exhibition, which synthesizes the work of the institution in the year 20, a year with extraordinary difficulties that we have had occasion to analyze in the Committee of Petitions a few days ago. But between the commission celebration and today, it happened one of the most shocking events of the last in Galicia. A 24-year-old boy, Samuel Luiz, was killed by a beating by a group of Thursdays, which is hard to understand in a mature democratic society. Numerous studies reveal that there are people who commit acts in groups that would never do if they were alone, and violence brings back the group. And how can it be that, of the 12 people who say they participated in this brutal aggression, no one had stopped that beating, no one had stopped the aggression? What could happen to the heads of some 20-year-old boys to harbor so much hatred inside them? I can't find answers to so much hatred, so much aggression and so much violence. All our affection and solidarity with the people who loved Samuel. [[Applause]] But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an isolated fact. Currently, we are experiencing an increase in complaints of group sexual violence; according to data from the sexual violence observatory, in 2016 18 group rapes were registered, while in 2019 there were 63, multiplying by 3.5 the increase. Problems that are not alien to the Valator's institution, since the defence of the fundamental right to equal opportunities, as well as the fight against any discrimination against people, are two of the 10 axes of the action of the decade that the Valedoria holder has committed to its appointment, and we note in the report how the Valedora has developed actions and paid special attention to the problems of gender violence, harassment, sexual exploitation, problems of sexual orientation and gender identity, persons with disabilities, discrimination and all kinds of disadvantaged groups. Throughout the report, a very good collaboration between the councils and the autonomous administration with the institution, which has also just ratified the valet in its intervention, shows that the Valedoria is not perceived as an inquisitor, but as a collaborative entity that helps different administrations provide better services to citizens. And we also want to assess the institution's mediation work, especially in cases of defiance with banking entities and even with asset managers, with the complexity that this implies. But in spite of that, we observe the tenacity of the valet in looking for a dialogue and in the social sphere before a launch. But in the realm of housing responsibility does not fall solely on the autonomous community. We also see how there are problems with some municipalities in the maintenance of public housing or delays in the processing of state plan aid. It points out the report as something positive that the partnership agreement with the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo has been renewed in order to exchange information with agility to address the housing loss situations of the most vulnerable people, and the Board continues to bet on housing policies; in the budgets of 21 it has enabled a share of 36 million euros for rehabilitation and 28 more for different housing access lines, also helping the municipalities to increase their social housing park. And the report details the reinforcement actions that it put in place for Junta in this area to address all the problems that had generated the declaration of the alarm State, such as stopping renting public housing and premises, the rental bonus that gave the hundred percent of the income that people would have to pay by preventing them from paying part of the income that would not cover the aid. But the report is particularly thorough in three areas: in health care, education and social policy, and there have been many investigations that have been initiated on its own in order to verify that these fundamental services during the pandemic were working properly, and I would like to point out that they were either closed or with archives because the Autonomic Administration was complying with the law and the corresponding protocols or immediately put in place measures to remedy some deficiencies. As for health care, to say that complaints about the quality of health care, reflects the report that the percentage is very low, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is the best proof of the quality of our health care, both of the resources and the professionals ahead, and this is one of the best health in the world. Despite the difficulties, Welsh health has worked well and has responded to the unprecedented health crisis in which we have been immersed, in an unprecedented and unpredictable situation that no one has warned it could happen, even Spain's epidemiological surveillance system has failed. With regard to the lack of protective equipment in relation to shelters in health centres, he pointed out in the report that the Ministry of Health was the delegated authority and the sole command and therefore derived from the Ombudsman, but despite that he said that the different councils reported that all the necessary procedures were being carried out to provide as soon as possible both the health centres and the residential centres of Galicia. Mrs. Otero, you have to read the report a little bit better, because the complaints on the phone 902 have been resolved by filing, because it has also been shown that other conventional telephones at no cost were made available to users. Mrs. Otero, health is Galicia's largest company, working between 40,000 and 44,000 professionals and hundreds of thousands of people attend Galicia's health daily. It's normal to be the service with more complaints, because it's also the public service with more and more attention. It reveals the report that, in relation to the carrying out of a covid test, Sergas' performance was adjusted to the protocols established at the national level and also recognizes the valet that the personal/teacher ratios were appropriate. And in the field of human technical resources Galicia made a huge effort, bought ventilators within the time frame and at half the price that the Government of Spain, hired about 200 health professionals students from MIR, she was pioneer in the car-cavid and in the school-cavid, created already in July the register of travellers, anticipation in the implementation of measures, in the purchase of material and in the reinforcement of the health model, was and continues to be Galicia's model to cope with the pandemic. A contingency plan hiring more than 1,200 professionals. In February, 2.5 million euros were allocated to the purchase of respirators and other equipment. The whole Sergas network was extended to intermediate respiratory care units, not to mention the postcovid units and the magnificent work being done with the vaccination plan. We also launched the General Directorate for Social Integral Care, and here we are already in the field of social policy, and it is worth noting that there were no complaints about the refusal of referrals to hospitals, something that we have observed that often happened in other territories of Spain. There were informal actions in residential centers, since they were the older, more dependent, and with a more precarious health. And the report highlights the exemplary behavior shown by residential care personnel. It also appreciates a good reaction to pandemic-related casualties by the staff available in the residences and that reinforcement and flexibility measures have been established. And Sergas also approved a farewell protocol compatible with the guarantee of public health that has become extensible to residential centers. The report, in addition to saying, Mr. BNG, that the dependency assessments have increased the waiting times, also says that it was because the proceedings were interrupted since March 16. It is normal that, if the valuation processes are interrupted, there are delays in the valuation. But Junta approved a plan to reduce those expectations. It increased, following a recommendation from the Valedoria, it approved a reinforcement plan for the home help service, with more than 1 million hours of reinforcement for the service and reducing the waiting lists even in the case of dependent people with a lower degree of dependency. And EUR 9 million to deal with the social consequences of the crisis, the inclusion benefits, the basic card for the most needy and vulnerable people who have been left out of work, in ERTE or in a situation of greater vulnerability than they might already have. In the area of education, it is also emphasized that the suspension of the presence of the valedora recognizes the extraordinary efforts of the Educational Administration and families at a first moment to adapt to a distance teaching system, to adapt to digital technological resources such as the implementation of virtual classes. And he also recognizes an ingent government work to set up a new school course, making education care compatible, and prioritizing face-to-face with the preventive health perspective. And from here we have to recognize that the educational community has shown better behavior towards the pandemic. And from here I want to transfer our public recognition to the entire educational community, to both the teacher and the student, for the magnificent work that they have done during this course, and that has allowed a thing that has surpassed throughout the year that they were going to close the classes because that had only happened in timely and extraordinary cases. [[Applause]] I don't have much more time and I have three questions too. First, it is a constant in the report to note that, in response to the recommendations of the Valedoria, the Self-Government has acted, in many cases improved the situation. Secondly, we look like a great dynamic of work that doesn't see the institution as a sort of administrative police but as a collaborative entity that helps the Administration to provide more and better services to citizens. And finally, we are grateful that the Valdoria is endowed with that value added to the defence of fundamental rights. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Let's move on to point 3. Debates and votes of the Ditame and the motions for resolutions adopted at the meeting of the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors on the Public Sector Monitoring Reports of Galicia contained in the 2019 Annual Report of the Council of Auditors: General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 2018.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u25	It incorporates Proposal for Resolution No. 1 of the People's Group of Galicia on the approval of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2018. Followed by 10 motions for resolutions adopted by the Committee at its meeting on 25 June 2021, which are now before the debate and the vote. The motions for resolutions Nos. 2 to 7 and 9 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group; the motions for resolutions Nos. 5 and 10 of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; and the motion for a resolution negotiated with the motions for resolutions Nos. 8, 18 and 26 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Groups, the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialists, respectively. To present the Commission's dictation, Mrs Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u26	Thank you, President. Presentation of the opinion and of the motions for resolutions adopted by the Commission for the reports of the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia contained in the 2019 record of activities. By agreement of the Bureau of Parliament of 3 November 2020 the writing of the Galician Board of Auditors shall be accepted as referring to the annual record of activities corresponding to the financial year 2019 including the Audit Report of the General Account of the Galician Autonomous Community for the financial year 2018. After studying the aforementioned reports, as well as the 9 motions for resolutions submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, the 20 tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Galicia, and the 36 tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists in Galicia, the presentation nominated for the effect and convened on 9 July 2021 raised to the Commission for relations with the Council of Auditors the corresponding report and the motions for resolutions, which were made by this body at its meeting on 25 June 2020. The opinion of the Committee incorporates draft resolution No. 1 of the People's Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2018. The remaining motions for resolutions which have been adopted in committee and which are now being put to the debate and the vote are 10: (a) Proposals for a resolution of the People's Parliamentary Group. Numbers 2 to 7 and 9 of this parliamentary group have been approved. As well as a compromise proposal drawn up by motions for resolutions No. 8 of the People's Parliamentary Group, No. 18 of the BNG Parliamentary Group, and No. 26 of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group. (b) Proposal for a resolution of the European Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego. The motions for resolutions Nos. 5 and 10 were adopted. And the so-called compromise proposal drawn up by motions for resolutions No. 8 of the People's Parliamentary Group; No. 18 of the BNG Parliamentary Group; and No. 26 of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group. (c) Proposals for a resolution of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The aforementioned compromise proposal was adopted with motions for resolutions No. 8 of the People's Parliamentary Group; 18, of the BNG; and 26, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u27	Thank you very much. The role of the parliamentary groups in the defence of their motions for resolutions and the establishment of a position with regard to the others for a period of five minutes per parliamentary group. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, first of all, for the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialists today want to once again demonstrate our recognition and appreciation of the work done by the Board of Auditors, for the rigorous work done as well as for the efforts of recent years to bring the general account of the autonomous community chronologically to control reports. But we also want to reiterate our inconsistencies with the development of this Commission which should be improved both in transparency and in parliamentary debate, an anomaly manifested by this parliamentary group year after year. The Board of Auditors shall prepare the audit reports in accordance with the annual work plan approved by the plenary session of the Board of Auditors and subsequently by the German Parliament. Once you prepare these reports, they are adopted in the plenary session of the Board of Auditors and come to Parliament for me to know and debate. This referral is normally made on two occasions after the year, regardless of the date on which the monitoring reports were completed. But once they come into Parliament, they spend months in all cases until the committee develops for its debate. Without going further, today we end the debate of 17 control reports among those that correspond to the 2018 Autonomous Community General Account, plus the annual memory of 2019, but the annual accounts of the Council; that is, 19 documents that have entered the Galician Parliament on 30 October 2020. And the first debate takes place in the Commission on 11 March, i.e. four and a half months after they entered this German Parliament; and the last debate is today, nine months after they entered Parliament. What are the reasons? For the truth is that the answer is quite clear, to distort the work of the Board of Auditors so that the content of the monitoring reports will become fully diluted, today within a plenary like today's which is completely saturated with a number of important matters. So you want all these repairs placed on the control reports to go totally unnoticed by the citizen. [[Applause]] A failure of total and absolute respect for the work developed by the institution that has the role of control over the German autonomic sector. For the Galician Council and for the People's Party Parliamentary Group, these control reports prepared by the Galician Council of Auditors are merely a procedure which they want to pass without any repercussions. In view of this situation repeatedly demanded by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we presented to the Bureau a proposal to amend the interpretative agreements and supplementary rules of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. That requires the Commission's call for relations with the Board of Auditors within 15 days from the publication in Parliament's Bulletin of the audit reports which are drawn up by the Board of Auditors. We hope that this proposal will amend a rule coming from 1993 and that it will not comply with the transparency and good governance law adopted in this House, because it is adopted by this Parliament and this Commission will change its functioning in relation to the Council of Auditors. Having entered the motions for resolutions tabled, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled 36 motions for resolutions. That the People's Party, the party that supports the Government with its absolute majority knee prevents them from being approved; and therefore they prevent the autonomous administration from complying with its obligation to formulate the General Account of the Autonomous Community and of the instrumental entities according to the transparency and budgetary rigour required by the rules. It is something that we do not ask the Socialists but which expresses and reiterates the Board of Auditors year after year in its monitoring reports repeating and reiterating year after year practically the same recommendations. Of the 36 proposals made by the People's Party only accepted one, by the way, negotiated with one of the BNG and one of the PP, and which literally says, "To urge the Galician Council to launch the register of dependent entities provided for in the Lofaga." A legal obligation for 2010, that is, 11 years later the Galician Council of Nuñez Feijóo is still doing, full, he doesn't care what the Board of Auditors puts on, and he hasn't done anything at all. A proposal that I literally read out the recommendation put forward by the Board of Auditors and which also says, "Recommendation accepted and pending application in 2018." This recommendation was accepted by the Galician Union but was found to be pending, with no progress being made in its implementation; that is, accepted if but once more unfulfilled. Let's go -- as I always say -- you're the experts in doing what they do, yes yes, you approve, but then you don't. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know perfectly well -- as is stated in the reports -- that there are 28 public entities that have not reported accounts in 2018, but you still prevent our proposal from being approved number 7.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u30	I'm done, Mr. President. And that it also obliges all autonomous instrumental entities to fulfil their obligations in accountability, as well as to prepare all the documentation necessary not to limit the scope of reports. But you vote against it. The Galician Council of Nuñez Feijóo has been ignoring the recommendations of the Board of Auditors for 12 years. Recommendations which year after year reiterate the Board of Auditors. That they also prevent the application of the accounting regulations adopted in 2010 and that it is to be complied with by all public administrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u31	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u32	...not only in the general account but also in the instrumental entities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u33	Please finish, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u34	Yes, Mr. President. As time is minimal, 5 minutes the truth that they don't give at all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u35	It's already seven.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u36	...to insist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u37	You've already been seven. Leva 7.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u38	Well, it'll be seven, but still...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u39	Leva 7. Thank you. Thank you very much. No, it's 5 that at the end it was 7. Thank you. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the German Nationalist Block, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. In fact, today it concludes the debate on several control reports of the Galician public sector by the Board of Auditors, nothing more and nothing less than a total of 19 reports among which there are some as dense and as relevant and complex as the general account of the 18, several instrumental entities of the Sergas or the FCI, I don't know if you are President of Ourense, will take those seven minutes to nine or ten or nineteen, the truth is that they would fulfill us. But in any case, we'll try to synthesize. First of all, we wanted to make it clear also from the Galego Nationalist Block the recognition, the good work of the Board of Auditors, not only by the great volume of the report but also by its quality and explicitly acknowledgement, that in addition, many of them had an extra effort due to the circumstances of the pandemic. It must be remembered that during the first state of alarm there was a long-term suspension, and yet, despite objective difficulties, we believe that volume, quality of work, already shows the maturity of this organism. On the contrary, we cannot recognize the same assessment and the same positive assessment for Galician Union, why? because these reports are showing many weaknesses and needs of the recurring, known from previous years, that the Board of Galicia, who is responsible for taking them into consideration or not and applying diligence or not to those taking into consideration, of course, does not do the duties. Mostly ignores an important volume of recommendations, others are slowed down practically sine die and the most important for us is the background reflection is not assumed, and we understand that this is bad news, especially in a context like we live today, because the reports show a picture of Galicia from 2018-2019 in many cases, and Galicia from July 2021 is quite different for obvious reasons, but many of the learnings and directions that mark the Board of Auditors, because if yesterday were important, they are from now on, more still and very urgent, because nobody gets away that we are already in the midst of a huge economic and social crisis, which will accelerate many changes and transformations and precisely, because to overcome the effects of that pandemic it would be important to have already applied many of the corrections that are stipulated in these reports and that would ultimately contribute to strengthening our self-government. But we have, a German government that continues to be installed in the sovereignty, which follows in that mantra that because they have at most absolute, because they automatically have the reason and it seems that the others have to come to this House applauding the roadmap they mark. We, of course, with the 20 proposals that we have submitted, have tried to mark precisely where it fails, and we regret that only two have been accepted, and a transaction which, as already collected here by the previous spokesperson, refers to a question that had to have been applied more than a decade ago, but in any case, we regret that there was no more capacity for self-criticism, too, in assuming more proposals, especially because a large part of them are not the political program of the Galician Nationalist Block, but they are in some case almost literal recommendations of the Board of Auditors body. So that critical reading is at the top of the table, especially because in many cases, the only thing that was added was a calendar proposal, and that wasn't ahead of it either. And also, because we wanted to take advantage of this intervention to leave almost telegraphically another background reflection. For us, the reports that he said are from periods before the year in which we have seen ourselves with the lenses that we have from the experience we have already had in these last few months of pandemic, because we understand that there are three areas that have already been identified and that the Council of Galicia does not accept any further recommendations and that it is not in its daily practice either, incorporating some of these issues, because there are three areas that do not properly address, one would be health care, another would be the challenge of European funds, and finally the challenge of self-government and uniquely in a new system of financing. We think the reports show structural evidence in this sense, by pointing out a desire to focus on the question of Sergas' general account, once again showing budgetary insufficiency, the planned expenditure never fails is the expenditure needed, there is always need to supplement these cats, that is, because it is an insufficient funding system, we also see the progressive process of privatization of the public health system and the temporality and precariousness of work. I'm going to read literally on page 106 of Sergas' general account report, saying, "As regards the year 2018, the global level is seeing an inter-annual decrease of 777 personnel-owned personnel. On the contrary, an increase of 772 interim. The range of time rates, which continue to be high, has an annual increase of 43% in specialized care and 31% in primary care. That was the 2018 picture, that was the picture with which Galicia had to face an unprecedented health pandemic, and the problem is that in the photo she wants to build the People's Party Government for the future there is no correction of this panorama. The same is true of the European funds, there are many shortcomings, issues of lack of transparency, lack of execution, lack of participation of the municipalities, and also of what we have experienced in these two months of sessions, because we see that this is the continuing line that wants to embrace the People's Party and also about the exercise of our self-government that we repeatedly see as simply a scenario against the central government. And one of the two proposals accepted by the Galician Nationalist Block was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u42	... precisely in order to focus a country debate on funding, the truth is that precedents make us sceptical but we'll see in the next debate, in the next general account if I give you something about it or not. From the Galego Nationalist Block, of course, we understand that both these reports from the Board of Auditors and what we are living in the past few months, they go forward that this line, that of self-government reinforcement, has to be the line and in that sense because we will continue to contribute to these other proposals. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u44	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to ask you for the same generosity that you've been asked by the voices of the other groups, because I have to do... sorry! I'm going to ask you for my generosity because I have to do the report on the issues that we are dealing with in committee and also answer some of the things that have been said here, very briefly about these important presentation reports on the 2019 annual memory monitoring reports. Report on what the People's Parliament Group has asked for its approval from this group, as do the rest of the groups with a first joint motion for a resolution. There are seven other proposals from the People's Parliamentary Group, two from the BNG Parliamentary Group, as mentioned here and one from between the three groups. So I want to greet that surely the groups that make up the opposition aspired to more, but I think there was intense work, intense study work and intense dialogue in committee that allows us some consensus on this. But, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I have to tell you two things, of course it's definitely better, but these reports are brought long before what they brought when they ruled you. That's first. Sure, sure, a little earlier. Secondly, today the Board of Auditors has more functions than when you ruled. It's a shame they didn't support the broadening of the powers of the Board of Auditors, and a third thing, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, very briefly. We do not want to hide what the Board of Auditors says, because we are proud of the economic management of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodríguez Presas, all self-criticism, of course, there are recommendations that are pending to apply, but most of the recommendations are being implemented. Madam Presas, what we're not going to do is make a whole amendment to the economic management of the Galician Union, you have to understand, because it's not that I support this House's majority group, they supported the absolute majority of the Greeks and the Greeks, a year and a day ago exactly. Look, about health, and that's not what you say, that's what the Board of Auditors says, page 17 of Sergas' control report. In 2018 the health budget amounted to 3,871 million, with an increase of 3 % consolidating the trend change that began in 2015 after the crisis period, 40 % of the total autonomous community, 6 % of the gross domestic product on the concerted activity, the blanket of the concerted activity, page 21, in real terms of expenditure represents 5% of the autonomous body's expenditure, less -- I'm sorry to tell you -- that when the bipartisan ruled. And that also says the report on the general account, the most important of the 17 audit reports, checks that the information paid is complete, determines that the management accounts reflect the faithful image of the estate, and that the information needed to interpret the financial situation of the administration. And, in these days, we're not the least of a subject. Being before a government that makes budgets every year, they could look at some other administration like it does. A budget that executes, a government that also executes budgets. Look, we're talking about Together, 95% of budget execution. There are the deputies, three of the four governed by the Socialist Party and the BNG, and that the execution of the Union is in the 95th, better? Of course, but the execution of the four deputies is 47%. They shouldn't read page 30 of the local corporation control report. Credit changes, of course, the Board has credit changes by 2,17 %. You can compare it with the figures of some municipalities. Extrajudicial credit recognition, six files, the entire Galician Union had 6 files, amounting to 698,000 euros, could compare it with the seven cities of Galicia. There's a report on that. Six records of the Galician Union, 1,191 records of the seven cities of Galicia amounting to more than EUR []. The reality is that we, of course, want the Board of Auditors to continue to help us improve. We want to take advantage of all the initiatives that parliamentary groups have to continue to improve, because that is always the vocation of governments, much remains to be done. That's why we're here for all groups and with a government being able to move forward. I'm done now, because good economic management allows us to continue to improve the well-being of the Greeks, especially at times when we find ourselves, with a higher increase in GDP by lowering unemployment, converging into income. Of all the people we're here, it depends that we can move on. We from this group, of course, will follow, next to this government and we will mostly follow next to the Greeks and the Greeks who have trusted us. Nothing of mine and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u45	Thank you, Mr. King Varela. Having concluded this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the opinion and on the motions for resolutions. We begin by voting on the dictatorship, which incorporates motion for a resolution No. 1 of the People's Group of Galicia on the adoption of the general account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2018. We vote. Voting of the Ditame issued by the Non-Lexislative Standing Commission for Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the Public Sector Monitoring Reports of Galicia contained in the 2019 Report of Activities of the Council of Auditors. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u46	We shall vote on the motions for resolutions adopted by the Commission. Separation of votes has been requested. We begin by voting on those which have been asked by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to vote separately, which are in particular paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9 of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9 of the People's P Group of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 31. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u47	We are now voting on motions for resolution No. 5 of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, as well as number 10 of the same group. And the proposal between paragraphs 8, 18 and 26 of the People's Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, respectively. We vote. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos 5 and 10 of G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block and of the motion for a resolution negotiated between the number 8 of G.P. of Galicia, the number 18 of G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block and the number 26 of G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted unanimously. The decision and the motions for resolutions of the Board of Auditors were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u48	We continue with item 4 on the agenda. Debate and vote of the Ditome issued by the Special Non-Permanent Study Commission on the Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation of Galicia due to the crisis of the Covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u49	There are a number of particular votes cast in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and I am voting in favour of the whole dictatorship with alternative text, and partial private votes from 1 to 335. And also from the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, and also a particular vote on the entire dictatorship with alternative text and a partial private vote. The President of the Commission, Mr Diego Calvo Pouso, has the floor for the presentation of the Commission's Ditame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u50	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Non-Permanent Special Study Commission on Galicia's Social and Cultural Reactivation for the Covid-19 Crisis was set up by the Bureau of Parliament following the hearing of the Speaker's Board at its meeting on 15 September 2020. The Commission was formed on 8 October 2020 and was composed of 12 members: 7 members of the People's Parliamentary Group, 3 members of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and 2 members of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group. In order to achieve the objective set by the Commission, a work plan was adopted at its meeting on 27 October 2020, where presentations and requests for documentary information were structured in the following areas: economic, social policy, health, education, culture, institutional and equality. In execution of his work plan, 142 reports were requested and 51 people were associated with these sectors. There was also a mailbox in place so that all those persons or entities with domicile in Galicia who wanted to be able to come up with their suggestions. At the end of the instruction phase, the presentation was designated, which drew up the project of dictation; a verb from which the Popular Parliamentary Group made two partial amendments. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego 1 amends to its entirety with alternative text, but a partial amendment. And the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia 1 amends to its entirety with alternative text, and 1 partial amendment. At the Commission meeting of 29 June 2021, the draft decree and amendments were discussed. Two partial amendments and 46 transactions were approved. One was prepared with the parliamentary groups of the BNG and the Socialists, and 17 were drafted with the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, 28 with the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. And it's been approved for most of the time. If we group them by areas, within the economic and financial area, 15 were traded with the Socialist Party, 6 with the Nationalist Block Galego; in total, 21. In the area of social policy: 2, with the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, 3, with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; in total, 5. In the area of health: 2, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and 1, with the Bloc Parliamentary Group; in total, 3. In the area of education: 6, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. In the area of culture: 2, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and, 4, with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and 1, with both groups; in total, 6. There were no changes at the institution. And in the area of equality, 1 with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and 3 with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; in total, 4. Direct incorporation of these 46 amendments we were talking about was 28, and 18 were transactions with the different groups. The Bureau of the Commission met on 6 July 2021 and admitted the procedure of the particular votes cast by the parliamentary groups of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialists of Galicia to the Commission's dictation with the following detail: 1 particular vote to the whole of the Commission's ruling with alternative text of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. I voted in favour of the whole Commission's ruling with an alternative text from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. I voted in favour of the Commission's opinion on the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. And individual votes, 1 and 3 to 335, to the opinion of the Committee of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. The Commission's ruling is divided into two parts: the first, of parliamentary background; and the second, of consideration. The part of consideration is divided into three: introduction, areas of action and background of consensus. I want to end by thanking Parliament's lawyers and the House services that have done their best so that in such a short time we've been asking for so many reports and we've been able to frame each and every one of the appearances that we've had in a few months so compressed. I would also like to thank the members of the Commission for their readiness to continuously adapt the agenda and make it possible for all those with whom we are trying to reach an agreement so that they could appear to have an opportunity available according to their agenda and also the agenda of all the honourable Members. I would like to thank this effort on behalf of the Commission and on behalf of all. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u51	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. We therefore begin the debate with the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the particular votes cast. [[Pause.]] We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for that we have the floor of Mr. Caballero Miguez for a period of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. After 9 months of work, the Commission for Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation of Galicia after its inception puts an end to its work. And we have to point out that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is putting forward a proposal to dictate to that Commission which incorporates the main lines necessary for the reactivation of our country. An exit plan of this crisis that believes that the Galician Union has to have a driving role, catalysing; an entrepreneurial role in generating new lines of action to allow for an exit from the greatest economic and social crisis that we all remember. A way out of this crisis that goes from the hands of public services, facing the challenges of economic and digital transformation. An exit from the crisis that has to prioritize the generation of jobs. An escape from the crisis that has to protect long-term women, youth and unemployed, who are the most vulnerable sectors. But after these nine months, we want to start this intervention by thinking about how the pandemic scenario changed over these nine months. Because when last fall he began working on the reactivating commission, the scenario we had before was a scenario of very many uncertainties, of many difficulties. And now the stage, having many uncertainties and many difficulties, has a new stage and a new phase because the two concerns of Greek citizenship are vaccination and reactivation. Vaccination as the main guarantee against the virus and also to lay the foundations for a new economic and social stage, and the reactivation driven by the public sector and by the powers of the State so as not to leave people abandoned. And that's why the scenario has changed, and we have to start by recognizing that the year 2021 is the year of vaccination, that in the history of humanity, in the history of different countries, vaccination has changed almost everything. And that the Spanish Government's strategy alongside the European Vaccination Strategy is leading to more than 60% of the Greeks this summer -- 70% by the end of summer -- they're going to be immune, they're going to be protected from the risk of the virus. And we must remember this because when we started the reactivation commission from the Presidency of the United Nations, it was said that there would be no vaccines until the second quarter of the year 2021, which were grandloquent announcements. And when that was said, it was wrong, and it was wrong because in the second trimester of 2021 -- without having to resort to other strategies that others posed by talking about Cuban, Chinese or Russian vaccines -- the Spanish Government's strategy with science, with the European Union and with public health is allowing to lead to a level of vaccination in Spain which is of reference and which is the main basis for economic and social reactivation. That's the line we have to put into value. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And it is important that, together with that vaccination, we understand that we have to consider reactivation of the country with the funds currently available in Spain and also in the Autonomous Community of Glaga. Because the citizens are waiting for us, they're waiting for a Union Government that can give them protection, impulse and employment that can give them opportunities for hope in our country. And we find ourselves saying that the ruling that the People's Party is putting forward is an insufficient dictatorship, with lack of realization, which escapes from fundamental affairs, which does not have a country plan to take advantage of opportunities; and that it prefers to profile itself with fallen arms, believing that inertia and inaction are the formulas to deal with this crisis. This Government of the Union received 735 million last year from the Government of Spain with European funds for reactivation. More than 1,100 million euros extraordinary in the budgets of the Union in 2021 for reactivation. This is the Government of the Union who has the most money in a budget in our country's history and probably won't repeat this data over other years. But in the face of this, we find ourselves with that absent Hunt, with a Government of the People's Party that prefers to opt for the unilaterality and the knee of the majority, without understanding that we have to put ourselves next to the people; and that together with national approaches we will be able to make the reactivation reach to all and to all. In a Galicia where we see so many things that concern us, where there are waiting lists in primary care, where this summer 600 hospital beds are closed, where there are more waiting lists in surgeons or specialists, where we are the 13 out of 17 communities in social services, where we are told that teachers will be fired at the beginning of next year's course, where we are naked in studying European funds. We believe that the dictates had to have another approach and another impulse. And the best example of the great economic policy failure of the Galician Union for reactivation is that we are in July and there are 113 million euros in the budgets of the Union that are not yet destined for today. Who spent the most difficult moments in the third wave of the country where so many Greeks and Greeks couldn't sleep through the difficulties, and the Government of the Union put 113 million euros on the mattress instead of putting them in the hands of people who needed funds and needed to have an Allied Union instead of a Joiner who gave him back. While many Greeks couldn't sleep because of the difficulties, the president of the Galician Union put the funds on the mattress, he preferred to have the funds reserved inside the Galician board accounts instead of putting them next to the people. [[Applause]] Because I'm convinced that a conservative government, a government that has handled the previous crisis with neoliberal policies, has found so much money this year that I didn't know what to do with them. And that's why, because there was no management capacity, because there was no ability to dedicate them to public services, because they weren't able to make use of it, we arrived in July with 113 million euros that still have no destination. And that's why we're presenting a dictatorship different from conservative policies, an alternative dictatorship, an approach that we're going to take with a vote from our organization, our group, to strengthen health. With concrete proposals, because we can promote a reactivation that protects public health, it is possible to take the contest 5,000 new squares in the Welsh public health, and the People's Party says no. Because we can give stability to all health personnel who have had possible contracts of more than 300 days accumulated in the last two years, and the People's Party says no. Because we can adopt a plan against poverty and inequality, and PP says no. Because we can increase staff in social services -- we're on Spain's queue; in Spain there are 1 social worker for every 1,875 people; in Galicia, 1 for every 2,500 -- and the PP says no. Because we can keep the professor who's hired in this course next year, and PP says no. Because we can bet on equality, with the stakes on the CIMs, on the Greek plan of conciliation and co-responsibility, so that women don't go beyond this crisis, and the People's Party says no. Because it takes a table for industrialization, for the reindustrialization of Galicia, in districts like Eume, like Ortegal, like Fene, like Ferrolterra, a table for industrialization, for the Union to meet industrial policy, which is its task, and the People's Party says no. Because we can work to raise investment in R+D+I to 1.5 of GDP, and PP says no. Because we thought 2,000 new researchers and researchers were hired in this legislation, and PP says no. Because we want to raise investment in culture to 1% of the budgets of the Union, and the PP says no. And because the People's Party says no to the approaches that make a country stronger, with better social services, with a reactivation, with a protective shield. Of the proposals of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a dictatorship which is putting forward more than 300 and peak proposals, the People's Party accepted 15% and rejected 85 %. That's unilateralism, that's lack of sight, that's lack of call for dialogue. [[Applause]] And we keep our hands steady, let's hear it from the president of the Union, from the People's Group, and let's continue to tend. Because I believe that the Government of Galicia is not up to what reactivation needs, that they remain anchored in that approach, and that the proposal for activity, of reactivation, that we put forward by the socialists leads to the strengthening of public services, the country's priorities for economic reactivation and employment, the strengthening of the most vulnerable sectors, and we believe that this has to be the line you don't want to take. There is a lack of ambition, a lack of scope, of measures, and, of course, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is disappointed that the Conservative Government in Galicia is not able to understand that joint co-governance and accept proposals for strengthening public services, employment generation, economic and digital transition, strengthening equality, fighting for women's rights and the future of young people and girls is not assumed. And we say it when we know that it was a time of enormous difficulties, also for the autonomous administrations, and that they had to handle a huge crisis that all of us had to deal with. So did the councils, and we believe that the lack of support by the Government of the United States to the Councils of Galicia, passing on competences that the Government of the United States had to do, and that you delegate to the municipalities without funding, is an outrage to the Greek municipality. That it is necessary to support the Councils of Galicia, that if the Council of Galicia is unable to manage the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, that if the Council of Galicia does not know what to do with the funds that are in the hands of the Council of Galicia, that it places them in the hands of the Councils, mayors, conciliators and conciliators who have been close to citizenship since the first moment of the crisis, and who have a financial asphyxity because they are doing social policy, cleaning schools, paying attention to parks, so many issues that the Board should do and that it does not. [[Applause]] And I would like to admit to the People's Parliamentary Group that it is true that it has sunk into a line we defend: the planning of the financing of the home aid service, which must be the competence of the Board, at least 70%, according to established terms. Because the home aid service is a right of the Greeks and the Greeks, but it's a competition that has the Galician Union, and you don't do it, and you're doing it mayorates, the Galician municipalities, who are being suffocated because they have to pay for what you have money and you don't pay. And there's a positive increase, which is going to increase the level of payment per hour, but it's insufficient, and we believe that we need to keep moving ahead to cover immediately that every hour of service at home is covered by 12 euros on the side of the board, and to move forward towards 16 ensuring that 70% of that cost is covered. It's time to talk about hope and the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u54	And when we present the distribution of the consensus fund, we have ideas that can't be left on the ladder, you can't be left out. Why doesn't the Galician Union allocate EUR 13 million from the consensus fund to generate 3,000 jobs for young people and girls in Galicia, for a generation that is so worried, for a youth who doesn't know what's going to happen to their future? They stand by the women, who leave behind, the boys and the girls, they join a Galician who is orphaned by the lack of connection of these policies, and they accept dialogue and agreement. And let's hold our hand again, and we'll keep holding our hand. But the Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u55	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u56	...Parliamentary Socialist cannot be an accomplice to conservative policies that give Galicia the back when Galicia needs this Union more. The more money there is in the Union, the more absent we have in the Union and the less empathetic in the Union than the Greeks and the Greeks require. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u57	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. We are in the final debate of the Committee on Reactivation, a committee which is true that it was born with a very ambitious objective as it was to lay the foundations for the rise of Galicia's greatest crisis in times of peace. It is clear that we are living an exceptional moment and that the world that will emerge from the pandemic will not be the same. The coronavirus showed, with all the cruelty, that neoliberal dogmas don't work. Today, no one with common sense questions the need for public intervention by the economy, which we need to produce here and not in China, that we must stop the privatizations and cuts of public services because they are essential for life and well-being. Or that we need more community in the face of individualism, because we either save ourselves all or nobody saves. But the lessons of this pandemic don't end here. The importance of care that women mostly perform has also been seen in many cases in a free or precarious manner. And with all of them we have a huge debt that is not paid with good words but with decent jobs and decent wages. [[Applause]] We also learned that environmental and biodiversity care are essential to prevent new pandemics, that science is our salvation table, and that output is more democracy, more rights, to bring decision-making centres closer to people and to strengthen the German self-government to have tools that will enable us to better protect citizenship. So we have important challenges, a very big challenge, which is to put in place the transformations that Galicia needs post-covid. We understand that, when we talk about this, it's not about going back to the past but about taking this moment to bring it back to a situation where there were already important problems in our country before the arrival of the vault. And here we have structural problems that are acute, since the galloping demographic crisis, the industrial crisis, the emigration of young people, the climate crisis, which in Galicia has very important characteristics, or also a social crisis that we see is now more important. We therefore have old problems that need new solutions. We also know, from the BNG, that anyone who says it's easy to handle a crisis like this is going to be wrong, but that in politics too, honesty is important, and it must be acknowledged that governments didn't anticipate it, that they were behind the virus, that there was improvisation and that mistakes were made with severe consequences. Without a doubt, the most important thing for all was not being able to shield the homes of older people. And now the important thing is that we learn from these mistakes and, above all, that there is no improvisation in reactivation, there is no need for anticipation, and that there is an objective and a horizon for the future. And we have very clear that the goal cannot be to go back to the exit box but to lay the foundations of a new paradigm to build a future Galician. And we trust our country, here there's ability, talent, possibilities to go forward, but it's time for the political decision-making to give the country a boost. And we say that, unfortunately, the ruling that the People's Party is going to approve goes not in that direction but that what it offers us is continuity, with old failed recipes. I believe that it is very obvious at this point that the outcome of this committee was written even before it started this commission. The People's Party was forced to create the commission but, of course, it did not want to make it a center of debate and repeated a script. I would say that I am sorry and repeated that it is to make a negotiation which is nothing more than a paripé or fiction, with the sole purpose of covering the file. [[Applause]] And the result is that we have it in front of all of us: a party, self-comprehensive saying, full of vagueities and that we seek only solutions to those who blame the problems and, above all, that does not offer us an answer at the moment and with the challenges so important that we have ahead. In fact, the great revenue of the People's Party is continuity. And I think it's very hard at this point to understand that, with everything that's happened, which leaves us with the crisis of cowardice, the People's Party comes with the old recipes of always, failed in economics and unfair in socials. I have to tell you that the BNG will always be on the side of the Welsh and the Welsh, but what BNG will not do is never swallow new cuts or repeat the errors of the 2009 crisis to pay for this crisis the majority of society. [[Applause]] I think this commission had a short walk, and we also saw it when the president of the board decided to limit consensus to EUR 115 million, i.e. less than 1% of the budget and a small part of the resources that Galicia should, in theory, receive in this crisis. But we also see it with the opacity with which everything that has to do with economic policy is being managed. At this point we don't know what the projects or the plan are, if it exists, for the use of the Next Generation funds. What we do know is that this decision, which is the most important decision in economic terms, which is how these resources will be used, will not be resident in this Parliament. They will decide more than any company that does not come forward to the elections than the Members of this House. [[Applause]] The truth is that we were used to the turning doors of the People's Party, but this is a new turnaround, a step more than a government that leaves the most important economic decisions in the hands of a handful of companies that no one voted for. From the very first moment, we have shown a desire for dialogue and open hands to reach agreements that involve progress towards the country and changes in areas that have structural problems. But we have seen that the People's Party is faithful to its script, because in matters of transcendence the PP bans all BNG proposals to strengthen public health, to guarantee the right to a dignified old age, to lay the foundations of a new sustainable economic model, to boost science, research, the capture of talent or to give it a boost to equality between men and women. Since the pandemic began, at the BNG we have made a commitment to Greek society. It was time to reach the shoulder and put the best of us to cope with the health, social and economic crisis that caused the shelter-19. And because of that commitment, we have come to a proposal to dictate more than 180 proposals in which we try to respond to the consequences of this pandemic in the immediate and medium term. That's why BNG's proposals don't go through the branches, but they want it to be concrete formulas and questions, with concrete budgets to shorten some of the most important problems that this pandemic leaves us, and let me detail some of them. In the health field it is essential to strengthen primary care, and we propose an additional investment of EUR 200 million in the short term and in the medium term to have the objective that 25% of the entire health budget should be devoted to primary care; that is, today we have a situation that is worrying, that there is a waiting list even to request an appointment. It can't be that at a time when we see that the health system is central, what the People's Party is doing is drowning the most important part of the system, which is precisely primary care. In social we bet there's a direct public management of the 7 major residences whose construction is planned in the cities. And we reiterate that there has to be a residence law; of course, the BNG will bring a residence law so that it will never do business again with the right to a dignified old age. [[Applause]] It is also important to strengthen the Home Help Service. And we believe that we need to achieve a base investment of 18 million euros, or provide more means for all the resources to work in the field of equality, from the CIS to the expansion of the network of family meeting points. We don't forget that housing is still a big problem, so we propose a housing security plan with an amount of 15 million euros. On this line are also proposed for education reinforcement, to hire more teaching staff. And we call for a multi-year commitment of EUR 30 million to recruit 1,000 teachers. And, of course, an important part of the proposals are focused on economics. And we bet on a new economic model that makes the country produce, which is a green, sustainable development, which is based on science and innovation. And that's why we propose a Greek science pact so that we allocate 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product to this field; today we're at 1%. And that we really bet on the capture and retention of talent, that we do what others have already done and are successful. We create Innogal on the basis of what has been done elsewhere with retention and talent capture programs that allow us to do this a bit of a future. We also bet on a Greek Institute of Credit, and it's possible to do so. Someone has to tell us why Germany has six state-owned banks linked to the Lander and here you can't. Of course, it's cheaper than a Greek credit institute than the $9,000 million in the bailout from the boxes to sell them later at the balance price. [[Applause]] We also believe that it is essential that there are alternatives to the industrial crisis that is derived from the energy costs and from an energy transition that we are seeing as unfair, that industrial conversion is being made with the complicity of the Union and the Central Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u60	That's why we're asking -- and I'm going to finish, Mr. President -- answers for The Bridges, for Alcoa, for Xeal, for Alu Iberian... for all the economic sectors that are in crisis. We don't forget that the momentum to local trade, support for self-employed workers and self-employed people, a youth employment plan, is fundamental. Or proposals in the environment, such as the regeneration of rivers or a new forest model, which are key proposals for us to bet on biodiversity, but which are also great opportunities for employment. It's over, Mr. President. Since the BNG we support those aspects that can be a breakthrough. There we have, for example, the increase in aid for the Home Care Service. I'm telling the People's Party they're in time to rectify. When they make proposals that allow progress, BNG is there; but of course, it does not contain with us to participate in a Parish that only wants to remain in a negotiation simulation and which, the most serious, leaves Galicia with no proposals for the future. Because in an exceptional moment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u62	...what is not worth is the old failed recipes of all time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u64	Well, thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have completed a long, close to ten months' work, a commission work in which about a hundred representatives from all sectors appeared and agreed among the groups of the House. Where we analyzed and received more than 150 reports, most of them, by the way, requests to the Board, who responded to the request of the commission of these reports without any problems. A time of intense work that I think we should devote to all people -- nothing more and nothing less than 2,426, according to the latest data -- died in Galicia as a result of the pandemic of the coward, and since in Galicia we have significantly lower, the overall lethality rate is lower. Or even to the more than 135,000 infected, although also in Galicia today the incidence is lower, half as much as in the whole of Spain; the last contagion, 5,000 in the 14 days that have passed so far. They, their families, their friends, those who suffered the pandemic so first of all, we have an obligation to devote the best of us to them. And that's what we've been trying to do over the past nine months with this report. [[Applause]] A report we made with responsibility, at least we tried to keep up with the responsibility of health workers, social services workers, essential service workers both public and private, public officials from all administrations who had to attend aid programs in a record time. With the same responsibility as they did their work; ultimately with the same responsibility as Galicia mostly gave an answer to a single pandemic in the last century. Which, as it has been said, has put us once again in the face of a global health crisis, but which has also made us a lot of pain, but has also put us in the face of how much humanity has advanced. Let's just remember that in the two years and peak that lasted the Spanish flu, a world population died, which was the third part of what it is now, between 50 and 100 million people, the latest data around the world is that they failed about 4 million people. And among this, of course, it had much to see a vaccination that stemmed from precisely institutional cooperation, international cooperation, the advances of science; and another way of seeing the world very different from the world that was in Europe, without going further, in the midst of the first world war. We certainly started a pandemic, recovering from an economic crisis; an endemic, economic, endogenous crisis created by a problem in the financial system. This is a completely different crisis due to the very functioning of the economic system, which explains, among other things, that there are different responses by economic institutions that also incorporate the experience of past crises, as is natural. Certainly, in the face of this crisis -- today we have just seen him in the spokesman who preceded me in the use of the word -- there has come the possibility of achieving organizational utopias and absolute reforms of our society. Some even predicted it was the beginning of the communist system, for example, Slobodan Žižek, the famous philosopher. There are also those who wanted to go back and try to close borders, go back to national states, circumscribe us into small spaces and make an involution to everything that has been the collapse of borders in the last decades that has given so much well-being to all the world, particularly those sectors of the world that were behind them. The truth is that we have given a response to humanity -- and, in particular, to European countries -- I believe that enormously civilized, enormously supportive, based on health recovery, support to the health sector, to prioritize all lives, and from there on, social and economic recovery of an economy which, as a result of the pandemic, has suffered total paralysis. Well, we always understand that, like in the past in other crises, it's up to us to make changes, to make reforms. And also, at the moment we were, accelerate the changes that were underway with a triple objective: health recovery as a basis for economic recovery; the transformation of the productive system to boost quality employment, competitiveness and the digitization of the economy; and, of course, to increase well-being, social resilience, cohesion, equity, and, of course, environmental sustainability and the strengthening of public services that must also be economically sustainable. And we also understand -- as the European Union itself did -- that we had to do with political, social dialogue, which the Union did in the social sphere, which we did in Parliament and always taking into account the views of science and experts, which are the most capable of giving a technical answer to the new problems arising from the pandemic. Indeed, we have reached consensus on the establishment of the committee. We have an absolute majority, Mrs. Pontón, they do not force us to anything, we decided to do a commission because we believe it was the best instrument, and we rejoice that there was consensus in the constitution of the commission, in the work plan, in the appearances, in the structure of the dictation, and even in the last few days in the introduction of some agreements at the bottom of the consensus and, of course, in the more than 50 transactions incorporated into the dictation that we will vote today. We are in favour of resolving the crisis certainly the support of the European Union, which some continue to criticise, the Central Bank, centralised monetary policy, which is the one that is supporting public spending in Spain in a clear way with the unlimited credit by the Central Bank, supported in addition with extraordinary funds, EUR 150,000 million, half of them paid in debt for the first time in Europe; all of this is already in favour. And certainly we are against and we are concerned about the allocation of these funds. At the moment -- just by giving a data -- the React funds, Galicia received funds that are 441 million euros, only 4.4 percent of the 10,000 that the state has distributed. If we compare it, for example, to the pure and hard per capita distribution, it would be 5.7; if it were to the population adjusted to the system of self-financing, it would be 6.2; and if we were already going to a maximalist plan, to the structural funds, it would be about 10% or almost 10%. And with those kids we built a dictatorship that clearly has two objectives: economic transformation and social cohesion, to which we added some institutional issues. And about half of the proposals are in the economic field and half in the area of well-being, public services and social cohesion. And of course there are concrete proposals, both for support and rescue plans, and we must not forget that the Board has also done exemplary work with more than 500 million processed in six months of aid to the most affected sectors. But not only with specific plans but also with proposals for transparency, so that the House will continue to be informed of what is done with those resources. Question that I think is relevant and that nobody forces us because we believe in transparency, in agility with the Simplification Law. In a fiscal policy against cyclical, i.e. by paying the suppliers, keeping tax reductions or by acquiescing the payment of taxes to be paid at a time of production arrest; and, of course, that implies that a policy against cyclical has to take into account the whole cycle. Because here we have been criticized, simply saying that at some point there should be a return to a certain normality, which is being said by all international bodies, by the national authorities and by the European Union and which I think is common sense: you cannot be spending indefinitely on debt. Of course, there are concrete measures in the field of the sea, rural sectors, in industry. By the way, there's a state pact for Ferrol, Mr. Caballero, that we ask and that at present they haven't even answered at least since the Government of Spain that would be a fundamental agent in that pact for Ferrol. In the environment, in urbanism, in tourism, and, of course, in public services; with a new model plan of residences, with increases of the SAF, with requests for the State's contribution of what it corresponds to in the Dependency Act. Junta is making a very big effort in dependence and the law is not being complied with either by the Government and Spain. It wasn't fulfilled in the past and it's still not fulfilled after several years of progressive government, and it's convenient to remember it from time to time because it's a lot to do with it. In health care with an accelerated primary care reform plan, with a strategy that is already underway and is accelerating, which accelerates the deployment of specialist nursing, presence care, integration with primary hospitals, home hospitalization. And, of course, with human resources, there are specific proposals, they already raise the replacement rate from Madrid so that we can hire health personnel, they increase the number of MIRs, with an extraordinary MIR, which is more specific, you have to ask for an extraordinary MIR of family doctors, in order to be able to cover the demand for squares, which is not covered because there are no trained doctors. Of course in Education, with the modernization, digitization and updating of vocational training. In the field of culture, sport and of course in equality, co-responsibility, innovation and female entrepreneurship, and of course also with attention to the most vulnerable women. All this with proposals for institutional cooperation and institutionalization of cooperation. Mr. Caballero said he was disappointed by the co-governance in Galicia, he simply compared the co-governance in Spain with the opposition party or with the autonomous communities, that they were all still unaware of how the PERTs were going to invest, how they would be divided, or whether they would be prioritized. They're complaining about socialist governments. And of course with the political opposition, which he didn't even call himself, just as the autonomous communities were not called to a fiscal and financial policy council to talk about how the funds were distributed, which would be the least we could do if we talked about co-governance. I wish the opposition in Spain had the opportunities you have here in Galicia to make proposals. And all this, this whole dictation of the affected transactions is going to rise to more than 500 motions for action -- so we passed significantly from the initials, 400 of which had our dictates -- translates into a consensus foundation. Mr. Knight, it's 115 million, since you're talking about someone leaving money on the mattress, an expression that seems to me very unfortunate from a professional point of view, don't leave 2 million in the pillow, because it's actually 115, as Mrs. Pontón said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u66	... Mrs Pontón proposes spending at the bottom of a consensus of EUR 420 million. Of course, if we have something exceptional, nowhere has the same thing been done to put on the table of the social and political forces the ability to spend on the full pandemic 115 million euros, it has not been done at Spain level, nor in any autonomous community, some of them minoran with 113, others do not reach them and want 420, and the fact is that we have reached important agreements there that symbolize what we want to do. Sector support, digital transition, innovation, inclusion, and a more equitable society. In short, we have a saying -- I insist -- that I think it's right and, if not, you'll see how you from the opposition will use it a lot and demand your compliance, because what you're going to do in it will undoubtedly make a Galicia more recovered and better after the pandemic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u67	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Caballero, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the speech of the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group, it is clear that Galicia is still more orphan today, that there is no plan for the reactivation that puts the countless amount of funds that this Government of the Union has in the lines of action needed to boost public services, to boost reactivation, to boost the economy and to boost the employment of our country. [[Applause]] The balance is the disappointment, the Galicians and the Greeks today know that the Government of the Alliance of Galicia is not up to the countless amount of funds it has in its hand, which persists in its policies of conservative cut-off of inaction, the lack of orientation of an economic policy that dynamics our productive structure and which is wagered by employment in a conservative line, overflowed by facts and realities. The truth is that it takes a new time, and I want to ask them not to do over the months that are left this year the same policy of fallen arms that they made in the first six months of this year, that they do not continue to raise funds because if I say so, Mr. Puy, the funds were in the Unity of Galicia for these six months, before a third wave that left so many Greeks and Greeks without being able to catch their eyes. Mr. Feijóo preferred to put the millions under his mattress, when so many Greeks and Greeks couldn't take a look because they had enormous economic difficulties, social difficulties, and the enormous moments of great gravity that we were going through. And that's why we have to see what you want to do with the funds, there are funds, there are money, what do you want to do with them? Because the ditam proposal presented by the People's Party is a letter to the Magi, it's a set of inconcretions paragraphs, it's a set of measures that have no kind of realization or operational realization to achieve targets for the country, and so we're not doing well. If you believe that, by writing a letter to the Magi at the time of the greatest crisis Galicia is solved, you will be losing the opportunity to lead the reactivation, and it will be on the back of the People's Party that the more funds there are less politics, that the more funds you have in the budgets this year, the less actions are done, and the more disillusioned the time it is about to raise European funds. We have to make a policy to generate jobs. What are you proposing to increase the occupied population of our country after you have not achieved it for 12 years by the People's Party Government while you were growing up in Spain? What are the measures you're proposing here? Or, if we're talking about the ecological and digital transformation, which is fundamental to our country, where do they come from, where are the measures? Where do they want to build a protective shield that frees the risk of inequality, that bets on social cohesion? He's not here. And if we're talking about allowing sectors to support, I ask you what are you going to do with so many sectors that are so damaged by this economic crisis, so many businesses that have to close their doors and many who are in enormous difficulties? When there's funds, why don't they put them in their hands? And if you're not able to do it, I want to tell you that if you put yourself next to the municipalities, Galician councils are a guarantee that you can support the reactivation, to put funds in people's hands, to push the big lines that allow you to give an inclusive exit, and you have a problem with the Galician municipalism, because because the Government doesn't want to lay the necessary funds so they can give you solutions to Galician problems, and that's an outrage. [[Applause]] If Mr. Feijóo doesn't know what to do with the more than 1,1 billion euros that came to Galicia this year, if I didn't know what to do until now with those 113-115 million euros that are in that consensus fund, that he puts them in the hands of the councils and a citizenship, because, when there's a crisis for a pandemic and there's no money, money is better in the hands of people than in the records of the Galician Union. And that's why we ask him for that responsibility. We certainly believe that we cannot be complicit in the policies of lack of impulse that involves this dictation. You are allowing Galicia to lose a historic opportunity to transform the economy, to strengthen public services, to generate employment and to support women and our country's youth. And we can't be complicit in that situation, but we wish you every success. We cannot stand by conservative policies, but their success, gentlemen of the People's Party, will be the success of Galicia, and I want them to succeed in reactivation, so that the Greeks don't stay behind, so they can generate jobs. We cannot support that dictation and let us abstain from the background of consensus. And we're going to do it because we think the funds are better in people's hands and in action than the allocation pending in the 2021 board budgets. And that's why the policies of the People's Party in the face of reactivation deserve a tight suspension, but we also believe that it's time to reach the shoulder, to be working to get the country forward, and with a different model that you're proposing we're going to abstain at the bottom of the consensus, and we're obviously looking at the obligation, in view of the enormous rejection that you've made of our proposals, to be unable to support that dictate. They only accepted 15% of the actual 333 proposals, effective, with measures of scope, with solutions for the country we have proposed. That's called the PP knee, unilateralism, the inability to believe that we can look for a better line. And I think it was possible, because you face a level of risk in this situation of walking alone that is worrying. For example, in the European funds, where we talk so much about this committee, and we still don't know what the Council's plan for Galicia is today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u70	...this parliamentary group has been highly responsible. We did not question the rules of health restrictions at any time, nor did we think, as was heard in the commission, that we had to confine the people of Galicia in autumn or January, we were responsible for knowing that the times were difficult and to take forward, but while we kept that responsibility we can't go any further, even if we would, because the People's Party is managing a situation for which it has no capacity or efficiency. They don't know what to do with the funds and we wish them all the best, and they'll still have the tendon hand of the PSdeG-PSOE to build the reactivation, because they can still come up with many curves and together we can face these enormous challenges. Galicia needs this Parliament to work for reactivation, and the parliamentary group will continue to hold the hand for the Government of Galicia to succeed in reactivation, because the success of the Government of Galicia will be the success of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Caballero. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Puy, I believe that the very example you have just set of the so-called consensus fund is the best one that summarizes and symbolizes how you understand dialogue, negotiation and reactivation. Now, the consensus fund, Mr. Valeriano, that we thank you for being at least the only advisor to this debate today, you were told that it was going to be executed in the first quarter of 2021, and we're in the month of July; it's not that it's not going to be executed, it's not going to run at the pace we're going. So the first symbol of how you understand this: propaganda and advertising. [[Applause]] But the most serious thing is that we go to the bottom, and it's how this background is defined. The People's Party said that opposition groups decide how these 115 million are divided, because that would be a basis for dialogue and consensus. No, no, the People's Party submits its proposal, there is only a small advance on the topic of the Home Help Service, and the rest is you assume the policies of the People's Party, is the definition of how you understand dialogue, consensus and negotiation, that others have to swallow the proposals of the People's Party is that this is neither consensus, nor dialogue, nor negotiation! [[Applause]] It's an absolutist roll of the People's Party, on a subject, ladies and gentlemen, where there's certainly a lot at stake. Much at stake as the next generation funds will be divided; but, of course, this debate is not new in this House, nor in the reactivating committee. It's just that we've left the skin in the last few months that there's a proposal for the future, a proposal thinking in the country for the funds and that we've overcome that barrier of centralism, because we know that, when Madrid decides, Galliza loses. But what happened in this Parliament when the BNG made a proposal for us to demand the decentralized management of these Next Generation Funds, which PP and PSOE voted against, on February 24, and then we did not regret, because these are the political consequences of their decisions. [[Applause]] And Mr. Puy also told us about utopias; for, yes, I don't know, maybe it's a utopia asking the People's Party to reinforce primary care with an investment of 200 million euros. Perhaps for you, it's a utopia that we propose that primary care be given 25% of the health budget. Is it also a utopia, Mr. Puy, the direct management of residences that will be projected in our country, or that there is a law that regulates this sector so that you never do business again with the age worthy? Well, if that's utopia, that's why the Galician Nationalist Block is going to work. [[Applause]] It's also perhaps a utopia asking for more information centres for women, more meeting points, a housing access guarantee plan, a plan to hire 1,000 teachers and teachers for the public education system. Those are the proposals that the People say they're utopia and they're going to vote for, showing us that they haven't learned anything from this pandemic at all. Maybe for Mr. Puy, it's also a utopia asking for a Greek pact for science and really laying the groundwork so that people with so much talent out of our country can come back. For us that's not utopia, it's the future of Galicia, which really has to happen because we're betting for something different to our country. Or perhaps for Mr. Puy is a utopia that has solutions to the industrial crisis, or that gives a boost to local trade or to the self-employed and self-employed in this country. Of course, maybe this is a utopia, because the design that the People's Party has is that these European funds do not reach the small and medium-sized company, but they end up being four or five multinationals who carry the set of these funds, while the productive fabric that creates jobs in our country is thrown aside. [[Applause]] We have soon regretted, Mr Puy, that we have reached this point after a year so hard, in which the Galician society has shown us that it was at the height, that it has been able with much resilience to withstand very harsh rules, where most of us have made a great effort to overcome this crisis, and that the response given to most of the People's Party is the old failed recipes of ever, without a plan of the future and coming here alone and exclusively to vote what the People's Party considers, because there is no desire for dialogue, no desire to agree, no desire to change the policies that are going along a wrong path, because when we have Galicia with a demographic crisis, with new emigrants, with a problem because there are many people who cannot access home, when we have an industrial crisis from the north to the south and there are no solutions, what we cannot say is that we are going along the right way. Unfortunately we are faced with a missed opportunity, because the People's Party is blinded by most absolutists, who will turn against Galicia's interests, and I am sorry, because what the country needed right now is that the Government has succeeded, but what they tell us in saying is that they don't learn from the coward, they don't want to rectify, they're not prepared to give a response to what this moment requires. And we also saw how, once again, for the People's Party it's more important to look for guilty than to look for solutions. Today was the day to stand up, and I am glad that the Roll of the People's Party prevents solutions for the Greeks and for the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u74	Thank you, President. It has questioned the predisposition of a party's dialogue, the People's Group, which presents a dictation of 400 proposals, which we are now approving with more than 500, of which 60 are directly traded with opposition groups. We offered them 104 transactions about your dictation, do you know how many proposals you've dealt with us about ours? 0 the PSOE, the Block sent us 2 over 400. And that's the will of dialogue? Since you don't have the will to dialogue who offers you about your 104 transactions plans when you don't offer any? [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, if there was any desire for dialogue in addition it was at the bottom, and you know it because I commented on it and we actually had conversations with the Socialist Party, which, as the Socialist Spokesman said, has benefited from some corrections that they value, such as the reinforcement of the SAF. You've returned to the presentation. I asked for information on how they wanted to spend the background. You came with a role in which the first item to solve how the 115 million euros were spent was to put 250 in primary care. Is that to seek consensus, to present a proposal to spend 115 million with a role that puts more than 400 million euros to be spent? Mrs. Pontón, predisposition to all dialogue, utopian for my part, one, to think that with a maximalist block anchored in its 19th century sovereignist plans you can reach minimally serious agreements of the country. [[Applause]] Where are you disagreed? Where are you disagreeing with the Block? Because all you did was criticize our plan, and I'm going to tell you where you say the disagreements are, seeing as they voted no. They say there were decades of cuts, when, for example, in health care, the expenditure increased by 66% compared to 2009, forgiveness in health care by 21%. In social policy, 66%, in 2009 there were 570 million euros in the homogeneized functional classification, we are currently spending over 940 million euros, an increase of 66%. In education an increase of 9%, the total increase in budgets was that of 9%. So where are the clippings? Secondly, you come here that this has demonstrated the limits of self-government. If we learn something from this pandemic is that the fundamental thing is cooperation, international cooperation to investigate, to solve the health crisis, to advance economic progress. Just when the economy sinks, it's when the borders are closed, and when we start to reactivate, it's when they open. You learn the opposite, you follow that subject that self-government is not enough. What this crisis demonstrates is that what needs to be reinforced is cooperation between the autonomous communities, with the municipalities -- something we have in our dictatorship -- of course within the European Union, and of course at the international level. We are not to be isolated, we are justly on the contrary, to increase the federalizing elements of the Spanish, European and international political society, which is by all means what is being done, with the taxation of societies, with the subject of the European Union, etc. And then finally they also tell us they're in disagreement because the plan is neoliberal. It is neoliberal because it supports the public-private investment lines that Europe proposes. That's what you literally say in your report, you say: "and these funds are associated with conditionality whose acceptance is not being debated accused of a lack of transparency in European and State institutions. It is clear that this crisis, despite having an initial response different from that of the financial crisis, does not mean at all a change in economic paradigm. This is why we are working on reforms -- ta, ta, ta -- neoliberal key reinforcement with negative consequences for Galicia." You fall into an overwhelming contradiction, you praise the European funds that are headed to create jobs through public-private collaboration, you agree with the European funds, but you criticize the purpose for which they are the European funds, which is to create jobs in the company. Because, Mrs. Pontón, you want all the public and I already told you they were anchored in the early 19th century economics. Everyone in the audience, who creates a job? The company. Who should we encourage? The companies. What is Europe doing? To give money to governments to help businesses create jobs, areas of digitisation, environment, and circular economy. Do you want them? All the public, then, look, this is indeed being anchored in the past, obviously if these are the areas of disagreement because it is easy to get here and say that we do not have a saying and that we do not accept your proposals. But you don't vote for why you don't have to increase tax pressure, you don't vote for public spending control precautions, you don't vote for social dialogue, you don't vote for legislative simplification, you don't vote for, for example, for driving the commodity platform. Well, look, of course, it's hard to come to agreements, indeed. Well, said this, I understand that the Block wants to point out that it has an alternative to Government, to me that seems very good, it's democratic. What I don't think is that it's said that there's no desire for dialogue. [[Laughter]] And, speaking of dialogue, I think you have recognized that we have reached various agreements and that they carry their abstention in the background of consensus, that I thank you. When he talks about dialogue, I would like to recall what happened in an autonomous community that had elections the same day as we, the same day that we elected a Parliament, there is a Government there in which the Socialist Party is, with an ex-member of the current nationalist party in Galicia, which now has others, and what did he do in that Parliament? To set up a reactivation commission? Did the opposition groups make proposals? Have 60 proposals from the opposition groups been incorporated, as we have seen today? No, there was a debate, a single debate on the Next Generation funds, where 95 of the 96 opposition proposals were rejected and where a total was reached -- if you did, you would compare Galicia's dictatorship with 500 proposals for action -- if you reached 23 proposals for resolutions of great content, detail and programmatic depth. For example, at number 11 he said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to establish criteria for realism and viability in the projects as a matter of priority." This is, in detail, the creation of spending games... this is a motion for a resolution adopted by the socialist and nationalist majority. Look, Mr. Knight, I appreciate your predisposition to the dialogue
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u76	...I think you recognized that at the bottom of the consensus there were agreements, and we appreciate the right extent to abstain, I think you should vote in favour, at least in the bottom of the consensus, but, well, we're going to thank you the same way. In any case, what I don't think you should be careful when you talk about the funds, and I'll tell you why. Because I'm starting to get the impression that you're starting to say that Junta isn't able to execute the funds that they give us to cover the discrimination they're doing with Galicia in the distribution of funds by the Government of Spain. Figures on the table, Galicia is receiving below what it corresponds to according to the population, to the system of autonomous financing or to the European criteria for the allocation of funds. And I think you'd hurt, now that from time to time you approach the People's Party to criticize something they do in Madrid, I think we should all be very serious on this subject. The Union by 2020 had a deficit of 0.5 % of the total revenue,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u77	Finish it, Mr. Puy, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u78	...which means that no funds are kept on any mattress, they're all running and they're doing well. Mr President, one second, I am allowed, because
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u79	Well, if it's a second, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u80	...and. No, I meant we finally have a saying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u81	This goes for everyone, uh, sorry, uh. No, it's not critical of this, uh, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u82	...complete, which will be incardinated in the European policies that are being drawn up by international bodies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u83	And the other day Mr. Knight how much did he have? Please, Mr. Torrado. You weren't in the debate... please. A little quiet, eh.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u84	...and I think anyone who approaches the ditam and reads it will see that their content establishes a work plan for Galicia of the future, the recovery of the pandemic and the creation of quality jobs for our Thursdays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u85	Thank you, Mr. Puy. At the end of this debate, we shall proceed to the vote. It's 10 votes, and here I ask you to give me a hand to the vice presidents, be careful to see if... because this has its complexity. And then we're going to start and see if among all we can take this well, which is not easy. At the end of this debate, we shall proceed to the vote. It's 10 votes, and here I ask you to give me a hand to the vice presidents, be careful to see if... because this has its complexity. And then we're going to start and see if among all we can take this well, which is not easy. Voting of the Ditame issued by the Special Non-Permanent Study Commission on the Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation of Galicia by the Covid 19 crisis First, we're going to vote -- the redundancy is worth -- the private votes made to the dictatorship. They are a vote of individual votes with alternative text. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia shall vote in favour of the particular vote as a whole, with alternative text. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 38; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the second vote, the same as the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Private vote. We vote. Vote of the individual vote, with alternative text, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 37; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected. We are now going with the partial private votes, in particular the votes of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, with the partial votes. We begin by voting the partial private vote number 1. We vote. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia shall vote in particular number 1. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 52; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This particular vote is therefore adopted. We are voting now, also in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the particular votes 3 to 335. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia voting in particular Nos 3 to 335. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 38; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. These particular votes are therefore rejected. We now vote in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, the partial vote number one. Voted for particular vote number 1 in the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected. Now let's go with the vote on the committee's speech. In particular, the vote of paragraph (c) on the consensus fund, i.e. paragraphs 459 and 501 and the annex containing the summary table of proposals for investment in the consensus fund. Voting of paragraph (c) of the judgment, corresponding to the consensus fund, paragraphs 459 and 501 and the annex containing the summary table of proposals for investment of the consensus fund The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 19; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. Paragraph (c) of the judgment is therefore approved. We now vote separately but grouped the following paragraphs of the dictation, in particular, as you have a script, which begins in paragraph 1.6 and ends in paragraph 457. Voting of paragraphs 1.6 to 457 of the dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted. We voted now separate but grouped from the following paragraphs of the dictation. Which starts at 141 and ends at 449. Voting paragraphs 141 to 449 of the dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted. We now vote, separated but grouped, the following paragraphs of the dictatorship, which starts at 114 and ends at 450. Voting paragraphs 114 to 450 of the dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 19; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. These proposals are therefore adopted. And finally, we proceed to the integrity vote of the committee's opinion, with the partial private votes included. Voting of the Ditame issued by the Special Non-Permanent Study Commission on the economic, social and cultural reactivation of Galicia by the crisis of the Covid-19, with the inclusion of the approved private votes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, the Commission's Ditame was approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u86	Thank you very much for the vote. We are now continuing with the agenda, legislative texts, which is the fifth point. Debates and votes of the Ditome issued by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, on the draft law on recognition of private university Intercontinental University of Enterprise, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia The amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are maintained. The president of Commission 4th, Ms Teresa Egerique, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u87	Good morning. The bill of recognition of the private university Intercontinental University of the Company was entered in the register of Parliament on March 31, 2021. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 6 April 2021, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia No 121 of 7 April 2021, and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 24 April and 14 May 2021 for amendments to the whole and the articulated respectively. Even so, the table, heard the Speaker's Board, agreed to be processed by the Fourth Committee on Education and Culture. The amendments to the whole and the amendments to the articles submitted, which were qualified by the Bureau of the Commission respectively at the meetings of 7 and 26 May 2021 and published in the official bulletins of the Galician Parliament Nos 137 and 146 of 10 and 28 May, were: Two amendments to the whole return, one from the Galician Socialist Group and one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Thirty-six to the joint, 21 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 15 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. At the plenary meeting on 25 May 2021, the amendments were rejected to the whole of the report, so the 4th Committee on Education and Culture, at its meeting on 2 June 2021, appointed the motion to draw up the report. The rapporteurs and rapporteurs were Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato, and Ms Sandra Vázquez Domínguez, alternate, by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, don Manuel Lourenzo Sobral, holder, and donna Mercedes Queixas Zas, alternate. And by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Don Noa Susana Díaz Varela, holder, and Don Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, alternate. The speech designated by the commission was on June 4, 2021 with my presence and with the assistance of the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs, Mr. Rodero Tato, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral and Mrs. Díaz Varela. The initial working calendar has been set in this session. At the last meeting, on June 11, 2021, with the assistance of the rapporteurs and the rapporteur, Mr. Rodeiro Tato, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral and Mrs. Díaz Varela, they analysed the articulated text of this bill and the amendments formulated, concluding their work in this session. The report drawn up by the motion was discussed and adopted with all the suggestions made by the statement at the meeting of the Committee on 25 June. So far the legislative journey of this bill of recognition of the private university Intercontinential University of the Company, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, in Commission 4th of Education and Culture, which I chair. It is up to the plenary today to discuss it and, if so, to pass it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u88	Thank you. We therefore begin with the turn of the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Galicia is the sixth community in as far as the number of state colleges. He's got 50,000 students. The Greek public university system offers 132 degrees, 159 masters and 106 doctoral programs. And the starting squares of studies offered have passed the past course, we're waiting for this one, in 1,000 students who approved ABAU's tests. It won't seem enough to this government, it won't seem enough, you see it doesn't, and as that doesn't seem enough, Mr. Feijóo's government decides to open up to private universities in our country. Let's not be deceived, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you don't believe in public university, and you seem to have very confused, in addition, the concept of equal opportunities, which for you alone is the concept of opportunity. Because the right hand always hides itself in that argument that anyone who wants to go, who can come, is a matter of bringing up resources. They act the same with health care or social services as well. And we wouldn't be worried if it wasn't because that concept of freedom they appeal to, which has been appealing more recently than ever before, always carries with them an asphyxiation of the public. Because we have just seen the dictates of the reactive commission, what did you propose in the university chapter, in that statement of the reactive commission?, what did you propose?, what realization did you come up with?, what commitment did you make or assume? I have already told you: no commitment, absolutely no commitment, and the achievements proposed by our parliamentary group were all, absolutely all rejected, no increase in resources for universities and research centres, no more scholarships, no greater decision-making power of universities. Nothing, zero, literature, and more literature, but zero concretion, absolutely. Zero compromises. [[Applause]] On the contrary, what we find is a red carpet to any private initiative that comes in, even if it contravenes the basic rule governing the Greek university system, to compete disloyally. Come on, let's compete disloyally, that we'll force the public to put themselves on their batteries and start acting in this competitive market, which is education, all in the interest of freedom again. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in this voracious quest for competitiveness and commercialist optics that have a fundamental right as education, they will certainly not find the PSdEG. We have said it on many occasions throughout the process of this bill, we do not oppose the private initiative, but we must comply with the legality, be absolutely sure of its control and above all it must be necessary. And that project, this project that we are debating today, this law that we are debating today is not, does not meet either of these three conditions, with any of them. Without entering into the absolute lack of transparency and opacity with which this law has been processed, the Socialist Parliamentary Group makes its arguments from the public universities of Greece, which ensure that its offer perfectly covers the demand for higher education in our country. There's no need too much, there's no need. It is a true disproposing what they want, a disproposing that Mr. Feijóo's government, completely violates the Greek law in which the duality of titles refers; by the way, no one until now was able to override what we have said here more than once with solid arguments. The ACSUG itself, the Agency for the Quality of the Galego University System, assumes in its preliminary report, in its preliminary report, that its own higher evaluation body warns that it did not comply with the provisions of Article 13(g) -- cursed letter (g)-- of the SUG Law 6/2013, which literally states that "The catalogue of titles offered should be complementary and non-repetitive with regard to the pre-existing and consolidated titles in the Galego University System. Similarly, by the way, it points to the Galician Economic and Social Council in its report, of course also negative. But casually ACSUG goes through this little detail, which makes it clear that the Government, this Government and its organisms will always encounter legal sub-refugees in order to give validity to each and every one of their decisions. And we repeat it again because in the previous debates it was not clear and in case this time the spokesperson for this project has to repeat it, because in all the debates we have had, it has not been able to break this. The Intercontinental University of the Company offers or degrees in Administration and Business Management. Well, at the SUG this same degree is offered at the three public universities in Galicia, and at five campuses. The new private university offers a postgraduate degree in MBA, well that postgraduate degree in MBA in the public university system exists on four campuses: Vigo, A Coruña, Santiago and Lugo. And of the only two doctoral programs, because, by the way, this university is born with two faculties, I'll leave it to them, the only two doctoral programs offered to private university one of them is Economy and Enterprise. Well, by chance, the ones who already offer the three public universities in Wales. So, of course, we need to think about how you can continue to defend that the education offer of Galicia is being extended, how it is expanding, how you can continue with an argument that is a true fallacy, and it is a true fallacy. What are you afraid of, PP lords? What are they afraid of? How do they justify a private university being able to duplicate titles while that's even being banned from the public? Because, of course, they limit access to public universities and, at the same time, justify creating a new university that increases the number of squares offered in studies that already exist and in addition to a cost that exponentially multiplies the price of the public. We have to remember that the cheapest plate is one degree and it's 7,500 euros. 7,500 euros! Equal opportunities call you. On the other hand, the bill ensures that the new university will have no impact on the budget allocation provided for in the Greek University Financing Plan, but, of course, we, and thus amended it and of course it was not accepted, of the confusing wording we are not able to dismiss the possibility that there will be some other addition of resources by the Greek Government. In this sense, it is also important that public universities underline the heritage of the future university. It doesn't seem acceptable for the material and space resources of the future university to be covered with installations and foundations, which is nothing more than the social work of the Greek savings boxes. That is, the heritage of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. [[Applause]] But we have more arguments to say no to this law. We have a lot more arguments to say no. In relation to the research and accreditation of the research experience of the staff who will be part of this new university, it is not clear whether staff meet the mandatory criteria of the sexes, that criterion required for the public system. Nor is there any knowledge of the expected revenue that will be used to promote research in the various programmes that characterize this chapter at any university, at any other public university, of course. There are also inconsistencies about how staff will be organized in areas of knowledge, and we question, and we question, the ability of teachers, who don't seem to have enough degree of specialty for a specialized teaching, and that's why they can teach in any area of these large areas that they pose. But, of course, it's true that the future rector of this university, at a scientific meeting these past few days in Santiago, we also imagine that of the difficulties in finding doctors and doctors, he claimed this future rector of this university, please cried for the absence of categories in the professor. The lack of categories in the teacher, and I also have to thank the university advisor for being here today, unfortunately he cannot enter this debate, but I would certainly like him to explain how he would value these statements from this future rector. And, indeed, it is very complicated that the new university meets the requirements required by the law of the Greek university system itself, of the Royal Decree 420/2015 on the procurement of PDI. Well, as far as our amendments are concerned, because today it's also about our amendments and in addition to what I've just explained, our parliamentary group introduced 21 to virtually all the articulate, which is that it wasn't much, it was 8 articles. Of them, the People's Parliamentary Group accepted one, the least silent one, and so I guess we'll have to be eternally grateful, we did, they accepted one. And just in the weakest part of the law and in which our group put more effort into this law, to amend this law, they did not accept anything, even though the most modern laws of recognition of private universities throughout the state have an articulated substance in this matter. The inspection, the control, the surveillance, and the assurance that the entire process will be done with the greatest of the guarantees. These are the issues the People's Party goes through, hides its head and allows for example the rules of operation and organization of the university not to be subject to sight and pleasure or at least to the knowledge of this Parliament, of the Greek Parliament. There are neither guarantees nor guarantees at the beginning of the cessation of activities. Nothing. Our group formulated the deadlines, the deadlines necessary for the process to be guaranteed and the new university does not have all the time in the world, to decide to launch its project. Nor can it be that the beginning and expiration are left without delay. There is no control will of this project, there is no control will. There's no will. An unacceptable white card. Nor does it believe that recognition is necessary for Parliament to revoke it when it is properly believed that the requirements required are met, as if they were already done in other autonomous communities. No deadlines for the guarantee of activity either. Why don't you once admit that the academic goal is the one that's missing in this project? Nor do they consider it relevant, by the way, that the detailed annual memory of the teaching and research activities and their results should be made available to Parliament in Galicia, but not only do we also ask for the Government of Galicia and the Council of Universities. [[Applause]] We don't say approval, we just say knowing. What are the reasons not to accept it is not obscurantism and lack of transparency, as well as lack of control. We reiterate that many laws similar to these, many, not to mention most, include several control mechanisms and also include Parliament as an institution participating in this process. You serve a memory that will obviously be kept every year in a drawer of your own counsellor's office. I repeat, and I want this to be very clear, what we are asking about also the guarantee that it will have no impact on public budget or on research is not a whim of this parliamentary group, that is exactly what other similar laws of autonomous communities contemplate. By the way, by the way, some of them led or ruled by their party. They have no interest in updating and meeting quality and assurance standards for control and surveillance. Nor do they include sexual orientation nor the economic context as a type of discrimination. Nor do they accept that academic merits have a preference in access requirements. Neither does that. Of course, the right, defining. Nor do they consider it necessary to present an equality plan or a language standardization plan. They assume that this will be done then, which is something that in the development of this law will be done and the university will have to do it. Of course, we ask that, if this does, why don't they include it? What is the problem if the two opposition groups ask them to do so? Well, they repeat to the satiety that this, in addition, is almost an altruistic project, almost an altruistic project, thought in addition to social well-being, etc., and always discards the spirit of profit, but they only allocate 15% of the income to the stock exchanges. We're asking for 30%; if what really matters here is the pedagogical project and social welfare, I say it wouldn't be wrong for them to accept that amendment. But neither. And I'm done. You are told that this project complies with the laws, rules and legal provisions, but this really shouldn't give you a white letter. Just like the shape? Well, in extremes it may be, but of course it seems very doubtful that at some point it actually meets the bottom. And this distrust and criticism, in addition, was expressed not only by the opposition groups, but also by the public universities themselves, the entire union collective and the Economic and Social Council. So, in view of this evidence of a project, and, look, not only of this one, but of those who will come, which overlaps with what the public system already offers, which can also put it at risk and weaken it, it is necessary to prioritize the three public universities that have demonstrated and highly believed their excellence in teaching and research quality, and their ability to meet the demands of the student, and of course also of the productive fabric that you so much care about. For now, all we have to do is wait for the second shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u91	All this is part of the same strategy of university capitalism, which has as its goal two main objectives: on the one hand, to extract from the public university the maximum of goods that can be returned to capital investment; on the other hand, to destroy one of the main characteristics of the public university: to be a privileged centre of production of critical, free, plural and independent knowledge. Thank you, President, allow me to introduce this turn of speeches with this reference to the prologue of the book by Jose Luís Armesto Universidade galega always public, written by the Portuguese sociologist Boaventura de Sousa Santos, because we believe that somehow this fragment -- as well as the whole prologue -- gives a good insight into what, to our judgment, was this whole legislative process of processing this bill. And we say because, if anything we think of as manifest, it is that we were not here in a debate, if you want, as a procedural technician, that we were not in a debate of amendments. In fact, the presentation lasted only ten minutes in a single session and we had the fortune and success that not one of the amendments tabled by the Nationalist Block in Wales was accepted. So, if anything remains obvious, we are not here at a procedural debate, of the legislative procedure, but we are also grateful that if we are shown that we are at an ideological debate, a debate on the idea of the university model that we want for our country. And, therefore, if anything is evidenced, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there is the group that supports the government aligned with the bank, aligned with Mr. Escotet in defense of the private university, and our group and also the PSOE defending the public university, by the way, with the support of the Rectors, the ESC, of all the agents of the university community. [[Applause]] And as the Rectors themselves pointed out, maybe that's why the People's Party decided to veto the presence of these Rectors in the presentation, because there were three elements that we believe define the bill that we have on the table. The first of these elements that need to be noticed is that we are before a bill that does not meet the general interest of the Greek education system, which is created uniquely and exclusively to favor the particular interests of the bank and Mr. Escotet. The second of the elements that we need to put on the table is that we are faced with a fraudulent processing, red carpet for private university, stick on wheels for public university. And the third of the elements we want to deepen is the criterion of necessity. Galicia doesn't need a private university, so all reports of the three universities are transferred. Galicia needs a strong and well-funded public university. [[Applause]] So if we're going to look at each of these elements, we start with the first one. A university, which is being dealt with in this bill, designed for the particular interest -- defined it very well by Boaventura de Sousa in this prologue that we have just remembered -- and a knowledge paid by customers to promote the interests of customers, and thus one can understand that the entire public university in this country is radically against this bill. Only in this way can it be understood that the People's Party had to veto the presence of the Rectors in the presentation so as not to go beyond the shame that the Rectors told him that this university obeyed Mr. Escotet's unique and exclusive economic and private interests. But besides, if we're going to look at some of the arguments the People's Party gave us about, I think the situation is even clearer. Some of the arguments that were made in committee were, for example, that we weren't going to have a private university in Galicia, so what happened in so many other places? It seems that the criterion of necessity that the Rectors put on the table for you, gentlemen of the People's Party, did not seem to have much interest. But besides presenting this private university as a sort of El Dorado, I think there were references to private universities operating in the Spanish state that were moving as a model to import, and we are called attention because some of those universities that you put as reference, that model that you wanted to import, because they have today, in February last, a fund controlled by Permiras, European universities in Madrid, for example, 280 teachers in the ERE, the first time there is an ERE in a university in the state, and 26,000 students in the staging because they were unable to carry the educational project forward. But it's also that other arguments that put on the table and that I think it's worth valuing and putting on is, let's say, the concern they showed in the People's Party about the supposed obstacles and obstacles that they might be put on the private university simply because they demanded the same thing that was required in other private university laws of the rest of the state. But of course, it contrasts, isn't it? This concern about the obstacles to Mr. Escotet's chiringuit with little concern about the obstacle and the job that it means for a family of workers to have to pay EUR 11,500 to access this type of university degree. [[Applause]] There's also a different perspective, a model difference, and that's why we've been opposed to this private university since BNG. And he also drew attention, even in the press, Mr. Counsellor, that you yourself said when you spoke literally, so that this private university contributed to the freedom of choice of this country's student. He's in the press, he'll agree with me that these are your statements. Of course you forgot to point out, Mr. Rodríguez, that it was freedom of choice at the price of 50,000 euros per degree. This is, if you, if any child of a worker can pay 50,000 euros for that degree, because it turns out it's free, but if you don't have that 50,000 euros, because it happens like in Orwell's novel, that some are a little bit freer than others. But they believe that, of course, they draw attention to this when they put on that kind of trap, that they don't seem to worry so much, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you call freedom. They can call it freedom whenever they want, but what's behind this bill is a classy, elitist and secretive university. [[Applause]] In the second idea that we evaluate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: red carpet for private university, wheeled poles for public university, we've already said this here, 460 million euros of accumulated debt in the Galician University System since the People's Party ruled. But it's done that this is something that we don't even say from the BNG; it's the German universities themselves in their reports, so literally: "The lack of specific indication of titrations before the project and the omission of reports and memories is a violation of the provisions of the Spanish and Greek university legislation itself," not to move forward to a general secretariat of universities, converted -- we've already pointed it out here too -- in an ABANCA marketing mechanism. But I believe that what in every light, and here was said too, and the reference of this VIP processing to Mr. Escotet, is the non-compliance, which is also established in all reports of public universities, of article 13 (g) of the SUG Law 6/2013, which points, as Mrs. Díaz said here, that the titles offered must be complementary and non-repetitive. But what is already absolutely shocking is the argument Mr. Rodeiro gave -- I hope then I can discuss it with him right here -- with regard to why this article of the Greek law didn't work. You've made the pinchacarneiro argumental. This article does not work because the Galician People's Party has just declared it unconstitutional. It has just declared it unconstitutional, fixed, evaluated -- which is the legal level of students who do not go to private faculties and yet have titles of law, to some sure that they are alone -- for in which the judgments of the great argument of the PP that is Judgment 74/2009 that refers to a law of Aragon. And you who are going to bring here this very plenary that a appeal from the Constitutional Court is withdrawn because it even affects the powers of this country declare null and void the law of the Galician University System and declare it unconstitutional by referring to a law of Aragon. The organic law of the Constitutional Court clearly states that judgments affect only those declared null and unconstitutional texts. I'm sorry about the placard that touches the person who has to come here to defend the withdrawal of this appeal from the Constitutional Court, but of course the measuring rod of the People's Party is clear. When it comes to defending the interests of the bank and Mr. Escotet, they do the necessary legal engineering. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and we've come to the last of these arguments, this country doesn't need a private university, it needs a well-funded public university. And, therefore, since the BNG that we said so with all roundness, that we are opposed to this private university in our country, the sense of our amendments was motivated to have had the least possible impact on the Galician University System. And, therefore, many of the amendments that we tabled, because the argument that it was in committee that there were amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which were amendments to the legal question, depending on the legal assessment that Mr Rodeiro made to us on this ruling of the Constitutional Court, because we believe that these doubts may also exist. But I just wanted to finish putting on the table some of the amendments we tabled so that it would be worth it if what was proposing on the table was the BNG Group was something so highly revolutionary or was something so extremely insatiable on the part of the People's Party simply to try to make a law that is tremendously harmful to the Galician University System such that directors, trade union organizations, the Economic and Social Council in their reports or if, on the other hand, issues that at least in agreements of minimum could be assumed. In the first case, increase the budget in research. We asked for 25% but it could have been negotiated, it could have been talked about that, what was asked to the private university is to make an effort in research similar to what is being asked of the public universities. Clearly, the People's Party between defending Mr. Escotet's results account or defending the improvement of research in our country, because it was again positioned with Mr. Escotet. Amendment No 6 was also amended so that I could not be readmitted, which had to do with supervision and control, that the quality of the training provided at this private university was evaluated and that Parliament was informed simply that, as a chamber, we could take the information measures and, why not, enable the procedures through inspection, the procedures for the effect of this solution being demanded. The People's Party also considered this not to have happened. Proposals, let me say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that they are, I would dare say, in all the last private university laws that were made in the rest of the state, even, as has been said here before, of communities governed by their party, to draw up an equality plan. Can't you legally require Mr. Escotet, this ABANCA chiringuit, to draw up an equality plan and a care plan for people with disabilities? Is that what we need to do in the regulations and we'll see how those regulations are implemented when most of the state's private university laws are covered by those laws? Is it correct that a university that intends to operate in this country doesn't mention a single mention in its memory of the Greek language, the role that the Greek language will have in that university? It can hardly be a good university for Galicia that doesn't even contemplate the existence of the reality that we are a country with its own language. But one of the amendments, Amendment No. 10, is a sad issue, which states that there is no discrimination -- what we introduced -- for sexual orientation in a university. Is that not likely to be included in a law, either? Not so, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Applause]] When it is being introduced into laws even elaborated by the People's Party in other parliaments. And the question that we are asking is obviously whether, in addition to being a private university, classist and elite, what Mr. Escotet wants is also doing a university of logic ideology, reactionary and intolerant. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, another of the issues that we had on the table was that 35% of the revenues would increase and in scholarships, and that they could and would be willing to talk about what would be that amount. But again the People's Party is aligned with Mr. Escotet's results account and not with the interests of Greek society. We conclude by saying that all these amendments we did what they asked us to do: scholarships, increased research, quality control, regarding equality, the Greek language, sexual diversity, because they were simply rejected many times with technical arguments, but obviously they were hiding a firm political will on the part of the People's Party. And it's over, because that's how Boaventura de Sousa also moved into this prologue that he introduced: the knowledge that neoliberalism wants is a knowledge paid by customers and to promote the interests of customers. That's the ideal of neoliberalism with regard to knowledge, and that's why you, gentlemen of the People's Party, are with Mr. Escotet, with the bank and with the private university and we are with social cohesion and with the public university. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u92	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Roderio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. After listening to the voices of the opposition and above all to center this debate, so that this doesn't turn into a simple scenario, to preach increasingly simple and exaggerated ideological slogans, I think we should take into account a series of assurances from the Galician University System. The Galician Union has demonstrated over the past 12 years a firm, convincing and round-the-line bet for the Greek universities and their three public universities. As you can see, this past week, a new freezing of university fees was approved at the Board of Trustees, and it's been eleven years in a row. And let's remember that even the Minister of Universities urged the autonomous communities to follow Galicia's example of lowering university enrolment rates, thus consolidating Galicia as one of Spain's lowest university rates. You think this isn't about believing in public college? Well, of course, the Greeks don't think so. Look, the opposition in this House puts its speech in two big falsehoods: they start from a general lie, that this law -- and it repeated many times -- is to privatize the university of Galicia, when you know that the creation of this university will not leave a single euro to the funding of the public university system. And you also reinforce this argument with another second lie when you say that duplication of titles is illegal, when you know this is not true, because in Galicia, as well as in the rest of other autonomous communities in Spain, they duplicate, quadrupled and even quintuple several titles even in the fields of the same university. If this was illegal as you say, then it seems to me that you would be accused of having illegal titles. Your ideological projects don't let you see the reality. They plan amendments that harm the Galician initiative in favour of the private university of Catalonia, Basque Country and other autonomous communities. They propose to place in a clear disadvantage the private university of Galicia in front of the private universities of other autonomous communities, imposing more obstacles on the Galician, and I will explain to you, Mr. Lourenzo. In any case, we must respect the law, we must respect the law and, of course, in that sense, it is a project so solvent that even the Government of the State could not reject it, Mrs Díaz, it could not reject the Government of the State this project. And it must be remembered that the Government of the State has validated this project which has not had any votes against by the Commission Delegate of the General Conference on State University Policy. Therefore, this project is born fulfilling from the first minute with the demanding legislation that in its application corresponds, of course, to the recognition of this entity, by the way, a non-profit foundation, which we consider to be good, Mr. Lourenzo. The start-up of this university can be seen as a new opportunity to attract talent to Galicia and to give more opportunities to our students, who bet on creating quality jobs and who increase the possibility of electing Galicia for international, national and also autonomic students. And now, as I said at the beginning of my speech, I think it is appropriate to contextualize this debate and also to abandon doctrinal vetoes. The Board of Trustees, as I said, has just frozen for the eleventh year in a row the price of tuition, which represents that in this year alone if you save the Greek families 19 million euros; therefore, you are getting away more than ever from the equitable access of students to the public university, because we have saved the families more than 200 million euros at university rates since this measure was adopted. Galicia bets more than ever by the public university offering the necessary squares to cover the needs of the existing demand. You recognized here today, especially Mrs. Díaz, that in the last university course there were more than 1,000 unmet squares, proof that Junta has shielded the public system by ensuring university squares so that all Greeks have the opportunity to get a public square in the Galego University System. The truth is that your demagogy comes to ensure at the same time that there's not enough demand for a private university, so they justify that it's not necessary and at the same time accuse the promoters of trying to do business with education. I don't know how you can say that if there's no demand, they come to do business, but how will they do business when it comes to a foundation? By the way, and it seems to us all right, as I said, non-profit, that it can't have any benefits, because the benefits are intended for scholarships to those who have less and also research. And this is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality of this issue, and in view of this reality, the opposition to this House says that this university recognition law is to privatize the public university in Greece. The truth is, I don't know how they can say why what is really privatised? If we don't privatize anything at all, we don't privatize the University of Coruña or the University of Vigo, which in Coruña has just been authorized by the board to create the Polytechnic School of Ferrol Engineering and also the Faculty of Tourism of Coruña. Or Vigo's, which has just been authorized to launch the research centre on technologies, energy and processes. But you seem to call privatizing to authorize the implementation of twelve new titrations in the University System of Galicia. Do you want to privatize the Union to work with the Greek universities to expand and reorganize the offer of titles in Galicia? But don't you see that we're not privatizing any of the public universities, which is an absolute lie to that speech, that central argument of this debate. And that, besides, it's not about authorising that new degree or increasing its competence, is that the Union has increased to public university this year by 451 million euros, which is the transfer that is made this year to public university, which also represents a historical record in transfers to universities. And he's working on the third university funding plan by the Rectors for the period 2022-2026. So I think these are data that actually put that argument down that you want to privatize the university. But, in any case, we are in favour, as it could not be otherwise, of freedom of choice and, of course, that students have the right to choose the center they want to go to. But you can't come here to confuse and manipulate, because you know perfectly well that the Vigo Business School IESIDE ABANCA has been promoting and financing, for more than 30 years, the degree and master's degree in Business Administration and Management, as well as several Master's degree in Vigo University, and it turns out that this degree is also being given directly at Vigo University itself. So we don't double this degree, because there's already been two degrees for many years in the two centers, in the university itself, and also in the IESIDE center enrolled in the University of Vigo. In conclusion, IESIDE recovers its titles from the University of Vigo to its own university that is created by this law. Look, in Galicia there are seven degrees of ADE, of Administration and Business Management, and with the creation of this university there are still seven degrees, they continue to exist, they don't duplicate this degree, they don't duplicate anything, they recover the titles, they unsubscribe from the University of Vigo and they subscribe to the Intercontinental University of the Company. Therefore, do not duplicate these titles, gentlemen. And in the rest of the proposed titles, they are obviously complementary and non-repetitive. But anyway, since you're talking about duplication, you're lying when you say duplicate titles is illegal. I've asked them on previous occasions and, of course, Mr. Lourenzo because, in fact, the one who makes a good butcher is you, because the judgments of the Constitutional Court create jurisprudence. So if you create jurisprudence, you really have to take them into account. That's why I recommend that they read it again, that you read it again again in Judgment on 74/2019, of May 22, of the Constitutional Court, because of course, if you read it, of course, you will realize that this is the reality. Anyway, if the reality of the public university, with many duplicate and triple titles, if this was illegal, as you say, under the law that you invented, you would have to close them then, I ask, I say, because in fact in the university system there are many duplicate titles. Therefore, the judgment, which creates jurisprudence, indicates that private universities, by law, cannot be prohibited from providing existing public titles. By the way, the sentence is very clear, and what you ask is totally illegal. And indeed, as you just mentioned here, the two opposition groups, the law of Greek universities, which is one of the most restrictive laws that operate in the Spanish university system, clearly indicate that titrations should be complementary and non-repetitive, both for public and private universities. And in this line, she's working on the Galician Union with universities, as she just agreed with the implementation of the degree and interuniversity master of artificial intelligence to be complementary and nonrepetitive. Look, the ideological prejudices the truth is that if you see them perfectly in all the amendments, all the amendments you've proposed are geared towards putting additional controls on this project because it's a private initiative in Galicia. You have presented some ideological amendments that are not the subject of this law, because we are talking about a law that is a recognition of an administrative procedure where all the proposals that you make are already validated. So this law of recognition would be sufficient with only one article, it's a law of regulation, it adapts and meets all of the autonomous, state-owned legislation and also its development decrees. But you insist on amendments to the object of asking this university for more reports and asking for more controls than they have in other communities, and this insistence is credited with the large number of amendments submitted, it's 36 amendments to eight articles. It means they are deliberately thought in the same line of amendments to the whole. So you insist that you self-justify yourself by presenting so many amendments because you know that the current legislation is what it is and we have on the table a serious, rigorous project that is validated by the ministry itself. You come to the insistence that you get rid of the amendments that Parliament is to control this private university, when you know there's no legal basis to do so. They seem to propose to make a different standard for private university to have more ties, and above all considering that they are against legislation. The Galician Nationalist Block presents a series of amendments, in Amendment No. 3, you propose to abolish the University of Research Institute. It is a feeling, it is absurd, especially because, if we delete the institute where research is done, of course, where will that research be developed, therefore, when it is regulated in article 10 of the Organic Law of Universities? But in addition, in the following amendment, you ask for increased funding, I don't know what, if that research institute is suppressed. You also propose that it be Parliament which oversees the activity of this university. It is nonsense that Parliament is proposing a revocation, because Article 21 of the Greek law has already clearly defined this procedure. This amendment seeks to manipulate reality, seeding the idea that there are no controls, that the Board will not make inspections and question the work of the Self-Government. It seems that you -- I told you in the previous debate -- are suspicious of public officials and it seems that what you are proposing here is that you create a parallel unit in this Parliament to supervise this university. And, indeed, you speak, you also amend to increase income funds for scholarships. So I have already insisted that, as a foundation, all benefits are reinvested in their own foundation through scholarships and research. In any case, the percentage for scholarships is above what other private universities do. And by the way, students with less economic incomes will be awarded on the basis of academic performance and socio-economic conditions, and students with less economic incomes will be given priority, and they will reach 25 % of their students. As for the amendments of the Socialist Party, it seems better to amend all the work done by the Central Government, because it is paradoxical. You intend to amend to make a regulation when the regulation already exists and is very clear, and where equality plans are perfectly collected, which are governed by this law by public universities, and also by the linguistic normalization plan, Mr. Lourenzo is already collected, it is not necessary to incorporate it into a regulation law. That's why I tell you that you have proposed this law, which is regulating an administrative procedure, to try to justify your ideology, to try to justify your arguments, which are loaded with ideological components. So this is a solvent project, as I said at first, that even the state could not reject it. The State Government has validated this project, or is it, too, Mrs. Díaz -- that you seem to understand that this law is illegal -- do you question the Government of the State report? Well, if they don't question it, I just can't understand it. Look, the state has just reported 19 projects from private universities, of which 16, they actually reported negatively. Only three have been accepted and of these three, representing 15% of the applications, one of them is the Intercontinental University of the Company. The truth is that I really don't understand, if you don't trust your government, a government that actually presides also by a doctorate degree in private university, I don't know if you don't trust the minister too, who is also a professor of multiple private and religious universities. I'm done, Mr. President. The project presented by the Intercontinental University of the Company can be viewed as a new opportunity for Galicia. That's how this parliamentary group sees it. An opportunity that won't cost a single euro to Galician public service, a project that is an opportunity to attract talent from outside, to prevent the Greek talent from looking for other communities for their development and an opportunity to create jobs and quality for our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u94	Thank you, Mr. Roder. The turn of the parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u95	Thank you, President. Mr. Spokesman of the People's Party, we have a government president who at least doesn't know, graduate I don't know why university, I don't care about his curricula, but at least he knows that to be a minister or minister it's not necessary to oppose. [[Applause]] You were talking about falsehoods -- no, I'm saying that because your party president also has some title in a private university -- you were talking about falsehoods in our group; falsehoods that you've just exposed here for 15 minutes, and falsehoods and traps, in addition. The first is that it says that the Galician Union has a firm stand for university and other education. We haven't recovered the 2009 budget in education and university education yet, we haven't recovered it. You have to see, you have to see the budget game and then you will. They haven't recovered yet. Second, they're talking about the public university bet; it means, you see, or a sign that this bet exists is a new freezing of university fees. Who supports this freeze on university fees if it's not colleges? Who's the one who supports this freezing? Universities don't see that freezing of the rates that the Government of Wales decides on the Greek funding plan, because it must be remembered that this freeze year after year means a low income in public universities. I repeat, you don't see any impact on your own budgets or on that Greek funding plan, so you don't cheat on those university fees, which, by the way, seems very appropriate, a very appropriate measure. But what they have to do is to bring the resources that public universities lose for that low income. Then you stop confusing, deceiving, I don't know, saying all those falsehoods here in this Parliamentary House. He spoke of duality, which I took here too. You see, the law is 2013, the Welsh law of the public university system in Galicia, and that's when they start to restrict duplication in the three public universities. I don't know if you'll have to send a press release later or give a call to the rector of the University of Vigo, because he gives the impression, after what he said, that the University of Vigo will be left without its management and business management titles, and you will explain it to them. And, of course, we keep saying that you didn't argue that duality, you're the ones who have to read that article of your own law properly, your own law, read that article well to understand it, and if you speak of that non-doubleness as a requirement to open new universities. Following the correct procedure, because we are supposed to talk about amendments, amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block, we have nothing to object to, we have already said so in committee. We think that, in essence, both the Nationalist Block and we -- I say in essence, in view of these amendments -- we understand this bill in the same way, except for a specific point of view, your proposals are also ours and, in fact, if you admit yours and ours, it would certainly improve your drafting. The question, and that's what concerns us, and that's really what the PSdEG is concerned about, is that with this law, if you're going to open the door to all private projects that for higher education may arise in our country, and that's perfectly well known, because there can be no further guarantees in another law project for private university teaching. And that's right, because they didn't want to be in this first law the guarantees they had in accepting a private initiative that is absolutely unnecessary. To see how we say, with this minimum law, that besides breaking the law, we insist, breaking the law, they will be able to brake any other private university that appears. And that dangerous precedent will be your responsibility, that of this parliamentary group, that of the People's Parliamentary Group, that of your parliamentary group, and that of the Government of Mr Feijóo. The reality is, during the crisis and all subsequent years, the PP governments have lowered their education spending, which has not yet recovered, has not yet recovered. That's why I don't seem to receive approval from a private university when the Government of the United States disregards its obligations to the public university and to the Galician youth. They intend to let it go slowly, little by little, the public university system, so that, as the demands for public university are growing, more lax -- and we'll see it, and we'll see it -- unfortunately the requirements for the private one. Support the private initiatives I want, but first take care of what is everyone's. They increase funding, as we are asking them in this parliamentary group for the period 2022-2026, for the Galician University System, especially the structural system, as the three directors are asking. They favor stable contracts of teaching staff and investigators, as well as administrative staff and services, to reinvigorate a completely aged staff, and you know this better than we do. They increase the scholarships, improve the possibilities and conditions for recruiting and stabilising the investigator's staff, and meet the successive structural demands, which the public university has been asking for, for years beyond. Here it is, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party where the German Government should focus all its efforts. For our own sake, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Parliamentary Group of the Galgo Nationalist Block, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u97	Thank you, President. It's interesting that the People's Party's ease of coming here in this kind of debate to make announcements, great preaching, and, at the same time as they say one thing, they do absolutely the opposite. And you point out, Mr. Roder, that your fair way of empowering and promoting public university is to give the red carpet to the private university. But it is the same mechanism that has just said to thank the middle-school teacher whom we have seen in this Parliament on the same day that we have in the press the closure of more than 30 primary and child education units throughout the country. So the first thing I'd meet to do is put in quotes is that every time the People's Party, every time it values any of these elements, it's to start worrying. [[Applause]] And then you speak, Mr. Roderio, of the obstacles to the Galician initiative. And, of course, I think you, gentlemen of the People's Party, were the only ones who haven't found out in this country that ABANCA is no longer the capital of Greek. And it's not German capital because you gave it to Mr. Escotet for 8,000 million euros in one of the most shameful operations in our country's recent history. He's been given the Greek savings and now they're trying to give him the Greek university. [[Applause]] And, of course, we have slogans here because it turns out that we do the opposition. The ESC is saying exactly what we came here to bring, but they are slogans! The principals of the universities in their reports are that they put it in an absolutely nesting, transparent, crystalline, black way over white. It's as easy as a few minutes to stop reading the reports of the public universities in Wales, but it turns out they're slogans, as slogans are those of the trade union organizations, as slogans are the positions of the bodies of the student organizations, all slogans except the very high sense of state when they put the red carpet on Mr. Escotet of the People's Party. And, of course, it's the sense of state that we must prove it. It's not about coming here to preach. Article 13g which says there are references... and because if you read the heading of that article of the law of SUG, you speak of it as for the creation of new universities. And so, when the People's Party is creating a new one, allowing a law that gives it a way to a new private university and doesn't comply with what's in that article, because logically I think there's a conflict, so they moved the principals and the public universities, which I suppose they won't be suspicious of coming here too with slogans. But, of course, now I like it, Mr. Roder, that he was a little more cautious when he makes references to that sentence, but he talks about jurisprudence. Look at legal barbarity, eh, because it's worthy of study and mention. May a sentence referring to a law of Aragon annul articles of the Greek law of the SUG. It's as if someone says in the Valencia Statute and the Andalusian Statute that they are cancelled because there are similar articles in the Catalan Statute. It's a barbarity of epic dimensions, Mr. Roder. The law of the SUG is in force and must therefore be complied with, and if they do not agree with what is envisaged in that article, because they re-establish it and take the measures they must take. [[Applause]] And then we talked about any matter that comes here in defense of public university because it's about coming here to make ideology, to make politics, and we told him that yes, it's just that from the BNG Group we've been here doing politics. What's really worrying is that the Group of the People's Party seems to come here doing business for their friends, like Mr. Escotet handling bills with the red carpet to get these kind of chiringuits up in our country. And so when we talk about stock exchanges initiatives, for example, what we were putting on the table is the ability to negotiate a question that, for example, between 15% and 35% we could reach some kind of agreement, but what was on the table was what was going to dominate. If Mr. Escotet's results account were to be primaryized on one side, ABANCA's results account, or on the other hand, he was going to dominate the interest of that student who wanted to choose. The role of the People's Party was clear, the alignment was clear and was clear on an obvious issue, with which we started this debate. Because, at the bottom of this, there is a debate, of course, ideologically: the debate of those who believe in public university and those who do not, the debate of those who believe in social cohesion and the debate of those who systematically at all educational levels are taking steps to privatize the system of public education in Galicia, in this case to privatize the Galego University System. That I have no doubt that, with the principals, with the public university and social agents of the university community, we will be faced with this bill. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u98	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Roderio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good day again. The truth is, Mr. Lourenzo, you do a good job of jeopardizing legislation as well, and I recommend that you also look at article 164 of the Constitution, especially when one law is declared unconstitutional and what effects it has on the others. [[Applause]] Indeed, after listening to them again, the conclusion I come to is that you in this matter will stand against Galicia. We're talking about an opportunity, as I told you, that it won't cost a single euro to the public university system. So if it's not going to cost you a single euro, you're the one who's coming here. And I reiterate myself in putting ties to this private university in front of other autonomous communities, and for that, they get drunk and you do good meatballs, Mr. Lourenzo, on this matter. As soon as I don't know if they have the goal that Galicia misses this new opportunity, it really gives me the impression that you prefer this new opportunity for such an important investment in education, it seems to me that you prefer it to go to another autonomous community and invest it in another autonomous community where you rule or where you have government partners. Because, of course, we're talking about a foundation that will create talent and also quality jobs. But you have to clarify yourself with so much contradiction, I tell you the truth, because the representatives of the Socialist Party and the Tides voted in favour of setting up this university in ABANCA. They also voted in favour of constituting this university the representatives of the Crown and the Lugo Deputies, where you co-governing each time you lose the election. [[Applause]] And he also voted in favour of the Patronate of ABANCA the Vigo Town Hall. I don't know if Mr. Caballero, mayor of Vigo, has changed his mind these days or since when he gave instructions to vote in favour. The truth is, I don't know what changed in the Socialist Party, because when the Socialist Spokesman or the former Socialist Spokesman, Mr Leicega, and all his Socialist Parliamentary Group voted in favour of the third resolution, adopted in the general policy debate on 27 September 2019, to urge the Council of Galicia to incorporate new universities whenever the law is complied with. And I know you're suspicious of reports, eleven reports from civil servants in Galicia. I understand they may be suspicious, but are you also suspicious of the reports of the General Conference on University Policy of the Government of Spain? Do you not share what the Socialist Party of Andalusia did, which created three private universities? Don't you agree with the previous government phase of Zapatero, which also approved an avalanche of private universities? But don't you agree with what Minister Castells says in favour of private universities? Of course I still don't understand what changed in the Socialist Party. And as for the BNG, the big contribution it makes is to make a call to break the law, you are against the laws, you are against everything and, of course, you come here to make a radical, populist and transnoited approach today. And the truth is that the Socialist Party, which shocks me and draws my attention, because today it comes here to practice a follow-up to the Galician Nationalist Block that, of course, you walk in the opposite direction. Mr. Lourenzo, when he begs to agree with his boss, he agrees to lie about the cuts. Because you speak of 440 million euros in cuts and your boss speaks of 800; man, it's just a simple difference but such a wide difference. They agree, because the biggest cut in history in this autonomous community has made you two billion euros of puphos left in the bipartite during the era of greater economic prosperity. [[Applause]] I know, Mr. Lourenzo, that you follow the slogans of the capital, and of the business, and if I don't know how many things. Well, we're talking about a foundation that can't be sold, which is guaranteed to stay in Galicia and be devoted to higher education. Look, the public university bet is not incompatible with the fact that Galicia for the first time in its history obtains a private public service university within the framework of a non-profit foundation of Greek interest and that it also invests in higher education, which creates quality jobs and that will actually expand the offer of university education. An initiative that increases the possibility of choosing, choosing students, 23% of Spanish students choose private university. I don't know what you have against it. Look, we're talking about Spain's eighth lay university in the form of a non-profit foundation and, therefore, I think it's a good news. And from the very point of view of the fact that the Government of Greece is betting on students and on the public university, because we have the lowest university rates in Spain, we are Spain's third community that finances the public university most. And there was a historic record, Mr. Lourenzo, a historic record as there was never before in Junta in 2020 and in 2021 with the largest transfer of funds to the public university. And in Galicia, these university rates, which have represented 200 million euros, are kept frozen since this saving measure was introduced to the Greek families. But if the Minister of Universities places value and tells other autonomous communities to take the example and to take the mirror of Galicia instead of the price of registrations. Expenditure on the Galego University System in relation to its GDP is 0.78, far above the average in Spain, which is 0.50. And during the economic crisis, and you recognized the principals and you listened to the Commission's spokespersons on reactivating that the funding plan was very important to support their students by ensuring equal opportunities and to give stability to universities. And that recognized the principals themselves. Look, studying a university credit in Catalonia costs €22.69, doing it in Galicia costs half, 11.78. That means studying in Galicia costs half... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u101	...to do it in another autonomous community. Nothing else, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u102	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Debates and votes on the opinion of the Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February 2015, and the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on equality is hereby approved, in order to ensure the real equality of women and men in university and research. The amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group are maintained. The president of Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, Ms María Corina Porro Martínez, spoke for the presentation of the Commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u103	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before presenting the opinion of the committee, I think it is fair to highlight the will of dialogue and to reach agreements between all the groups in the process of this bill and what we shall be discussing at the end of it. This way of working is by allowing us to walk together for equality and struggle against macho violence in all its forms. The Proposal for a Law amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February 2015 approving the consolidated text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality to ensure the real equality of women and men in university and research, formulated by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 10 February 2021, and its admission to the procedure was made by the Bureau of Parliament at its meeting on 16 February. After its consideration at the plenary meeting on 23 March, the deadline for submitting amendments to the joint was opened, which ended on 10 May, and agreed to be processed by the 5th Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment. The amendments to the articulation, submitted and admitted to the procedure, were a total of 25:22 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 3 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Commission 5th, at its meeting on 27 May, appointed the rapporteur to draw up the report, which, after the following three meetings with the assistance of the rapporteurs, Mrs Prado del Río, Mrs Rodil Fernández and Mrs Díaz Varela, prepared the report with the final recommendations issued on 23 June. Subsequently, at its meeting on 1 July, the Committee adopted unanimously the opinion that the debate and vote should be put to the vote in this plenary session with the incorporation of 14 amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 5 of them dealt with, and 3 from the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, 1 of them dealt with, as well as the corresponding technical amendments and whose text consists, in addition to the explanatory statement, of a single article divided into two paragraphs and two last provisions. It is therefore necessary to complete today the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the proposed law amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February 2015 and the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality to ensure the real equality of women and men in the field of university and research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u104	Thank you. We begin with the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. We started with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u105	Thank you, President. Good morning, or good afternoon, I don't know what time it is anymore. The fact is that today, as we have done in committee, we must begin by congratulating the three parliamentary groups on the consensus, the good will and understanding of the work in question as well. They were constructive debates and the truth is that since the PSdG we have seen and understood a general will to add, and that is very much to thank you in the matter of equality and in a matter like the one that brings us here today. I don't want to stop thanking you for your collaboration with us in these months as well as research women's associations, in particular, Amid and Research, which with their approaches and constructive proposals have made this bill considerably better. Of course, with this law we take an important step, but it's also true that it's not all the way. But, well, if we've gone, we start the right path today. Crystal ceiling, diamond ceiling, cement ceiling, sticky floor, inspector's syndrome, scissor effect, dripping tubing... all these new expressions define the situation of inequality faced continuously by women who want to make a career in science, career in research, career in university. And fighting these expressions, which are more than expressions because they are realities, effectively fighting them can only be done by legislation. Only in this way will we ensure compliance with measures that guarantee real equality, the fair and necessary participation of women in equality in the scientific field. The pretension is clear: we have to break up, we have to legislate to break up the figures that speak of the scarce presence of women in government offices of universities and also in public research agencies. We have to break up with those crystal ceilings of the research career, and also tear down the gender gaps in access to human resources and aids and R&D+i projects and research contracts. And the data are very worrisome, and it's true that we've already exposed them here on another occasion, but it doesn't go wrong to remember them, and we bring some more. According to UNESCO, less than 30% of those who investigate around the world are women. And those who do it in areas known as steam -- science, technology, engineering and mathematics -- they have fewer publications, they get a much lower pay for their research -- and, of course, they don't go as far in their career as men. The proportion of women in the investigator's staff as a whole remains below 40 per cent as well. In Galicia in 2010 -- by taking a reference number -- there were 3,506 women -- always with IGE data -- working on R & D, in 2019 -- is the latest data -- they were 3,096,400 women less. But if we talk about female researchers, in 2010 they were 2,226 and in 2019 they were 1,889. At the universities of Greece, what happens at the universities of Greece, because there is a difference of more than 10 points between the percentage of women enrolled and men. In this context, besides in the field of knowledge, for example, of engineering and architecture, women represent only 26.5%, whereas in health sciences -- that of care -- we've already said it here throughout this legislation marked by a pandemic -- we're 72.7%. And besides, women in careers like Informatics, for example, we're only 12% and it's a figure that's getting worse and worse as academic courses go through. In Galicia, there are only 22.4% of women in cathedrals. And, despite being more in the IDP -- that is, in the teaching staff and the researcher -- we're also less senior teachers, we don't get to 40%. Our country also has a gender gap of 17.6 percentage points that is going to increase as we climb up the escalafon. And the curious thing is that we're the authors of more than half of the theses that are read every year, we're doctors, but then they don't hire us. Or we've decided, for the reasons we've talked about here many times, to continue with our career and that's why it's so important today that we're here. It's also very scarce the presence of women in government offices of universities and public research agencies, and we still find gender gaps in access to aid, human resources and R & D+i projects and contracts. And again we want to talk here again about the new researchers by handing out a recent report from the Women's and Science Unit of the Ministry. Which explains that, far from enjoying better opportunities, we see how the problem of inequality in youth is now even bigger. Why? Because we haven't broken the masculinized power networks, woven over all these decades still rooted in the scientific community. Because it's true that, despite the fact that women's participation in the scientific career is greater, their chances of promotion remain different and worse than those of their fellow men. The debate on the causes we've had here on another occasion in this Parliament in recent months, as I say, months of pandemic in which it has become manifest -- not only us, but also the three Greek regents that have made it manifest -- this inequality and its aggravation. Some causes we're not going to have today because what we're talking about today is more about solutions than about causes. And so far, the situation is quite hopeless. And, as despairing to us, it is important to focus on this issue and, as we have always warned, to appeal to the mandatory transversality of equality to all political action. Because if women don't figure out and our vital conditions aren't met, we'll never get to that long-sighted equality, that real equality. The importance of today's consensus, I hope so, of sharing this sensitivity in this Parliament. It's not all done, we say, much less and we must see the fruits, but we've taken a first step since then. It's also up to me in this task to expose our amendments to this legislative proposal and I'll talk, I think it gives me time to talk about all of them, actually it's going to take me some time, it's 22 that we're presenting, of which nine were accepted and five were traded. Among those accepted or traded, are those that included the need to regulate the perspective of gender, in addition to research and university, also in the transfer of knowledge, something that would seem important to us. The promotion, another of the initiatives adopted, is the promotion of the creation of a chair on gender issues in the universities of Greece, that the training of university staff and researchers in gender and the prevention of macho violence ceases to be a possibility to become a guarantee, which means that now anyone who wants to be trained in this matter, we hope that everyone who wants to be trained will be able to do so, it must be ensured that this time it will be possible to do so. So another amendment is to ensure access to university education and research for women with functional diversity and the promotion of new technologies that facilitate their integration. In the paragraph referring to time intervals that have no negative impact on the person concerned in the selection or evaluation processes of their academic-professional trajectory, we also found it necessary from the PSdeG that periods of inactivity for reasons of gender violence were also accounted for and that was included. It has also been accepted that the universities and centres and research institutions of Greece should be endowed, and this is essential, we believe that it is essential that they should provide protocols and establish measures of interinstitutional collaboration for the early detection of gender violence, support for any form of violence against women. We also include with our amendments that the Autonomic Administration includes as a time of investigative inactivity the enjoyed by guard permission for adoption or reception and also for any kind of harassment or for reasons of violence, of gender-based violence. With regard to the assessment of merits, curriculum and academic trajectory in the public summons of R+D+i and more specifically in the weighting of the time of the research activity, we were asking, making our wishes of the research women's associations, and as today also put out the people's valuer, that this claim was previously raised to the valator of the people, we asked that the law should be reflected in a concrete way that this weighting should be set at percentage values, taking into account the percentage of inactivity with respect to the total time object of evaluation and that in the case of maternity every child or daughter had calculated as a minimum as a year. In any case, this amendment has not been accepted, but if it has been dealt with in this matter, at last the three groups have reached an agreement that, although it is less ambitious than what we are asking, of course, if we believe that a step forward with a transaction that has already introduced into the law the terms of corrective factor and periods of investigative inactivity and that, in addition to what the original project already proposed by this bill, gives assurances that up to now there was no such thing as research women, university women. Now what's left is to wait for the self-government, as it has been transferred, and we don't have to distrust, wait and we'll be very vigilant, but let this point come into effect and that for that to count, that's yes, with the associations of researchers, who have a lot to say in this matter and, in addition, always constructively. And as we have to explain also among those who are not accepted, because we understand just how to explain all our work, which was not little in this presentation and which they intended to be constructive approaches but were not accepted, these include, for example, those who, like the Chairs, are called upon to promote postgraduate and doctoral specialization in gender studies. The People's Party appealed to university autonomy, but the fact is that the plans of studies do indeed agree with the self-government, but we will ultimately continue asking for or claiming. We also asked that it be ensured that in all phases of the research projects a gender analysis would be incorporated, that it seemed very important, and that the gender perspective should be incorporated into the disciplines through teaching on the scope and meaning of equality. It was also not accepted to incorporate curricular proposals on gender perspective, nor was support accepted, the creation of associations, programmes, institutes or seminars that group, involving women researchers. And, finally, this in our opinion was essential; as I say, we will continue to demand in this Parliament, they did not accept that the members of committees and tribunals had to receive a basic training on the identification of possible gender issues in these assessments. We have tabled a bill that somehow already deals with this point, so there will still be some other opportunity to pass it. But finally, and I'm done, despite your non-acceptance of these amendments, it is true that most of them have been accepted or not dealt with, essentially the text approved if we think that it turns an article of the current law into a sort of articulation that is now going to guarantee real equality, in the university realm of research and transfer of knowledge. If so far the reality is that it was the justice that solved those situations of discrimination that suffer from women, that we suffer from women, this new legislative framework will be, or so we hope, those who set the limits and corrective measures of the inequalities that still exist today. And nothing else on our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u107	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. In fact, today we are going to approve, already culminating in the process of processing, a law that is a pioneer, which places this country once again at the vanguard of gender equality, which does it in addition to in an area that is strategic for economic development, for social development and for the human development of this country, as is the scientific and research field, and today we are going, in addition, to unanimously approve a bill, a law that is the result of enormous collective work, those things that do not open large volumes of newspapers, that makes it more the crux often trivial, but that are exactly the things that make us progress as a country and that make us Galicia a better, fairer, more democratic country and that recognizes fundamental rights of half the population that women are. [[Applause]] And I didn't want to start my intervention in any other way by thanking, first, the work of the chamber services and very especially the lawyer, the Puri, for all the work you've done and the help you have offered us to the groups, to all the groups in the process of processing the law. I would also like to thank the other parliamentary groups, in particular to personalize it in the two people who were part of the presentation, Mrs Noa Díaz and our Paula Prado, for the work they have done, for all the effort and generosity that the other groups have shown. But for something that for the BNG was very important, we also said it when we first discussed, that it was to maintain the spirit with which the BNG formulated, I proposed, this proposal for the Alvarin Áng law that is kept in the text that we will vote and approve today, and that is also important to acknowledge and emphasize it in this intervention. And, of course, to extend this thanks in particular on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG to researchers and researchers in InvestingGal, of the Working Group on Equality and Conciliation of InvestmentGal, which we are also fortunate to be accompanied by two of them today in the debate, Elena Lendoiro and Vanessa Valdiglesias, who are following us through the screens, which we welcome and welcome to this Parliament. What we want is to thank them for their work, for their effort, for their generosity, for advising us, for supporting us and for ultimately promoting this law that today would not be a reality without them. [[Applause]] And we also wanted to personalize it, it's the result of a collective work and effort, but it's also true that there's a proper name behind this law, and we also wanted to make that recognition that Mary of the Source, who was the person whose struggle brought us here, who opened the way with a huge effort and a struggle that we know is and that it was very hard, but that it's essential for us to be here today in this Chamber about adopting a law that not only says that women cannot be discriminated against because they are mothers in the scientific and research field, but rather legally establishes the mechanisms so that it is, so that that this fundamental right to reconcile, to care, to be mothers and to continue with our professional careers is thus guaranteed. We want, in these fifteen minutes we have as a parliamentary group to defend our position of vote, give them the floor too, and we ask them to send us a text to complement and complete our intervention and I want to give them the floor today. What I'm going to read is theirs, it's not ours. "From InvestoGal, Nete Galega for Research, and in particular from the Working Group on Equality, Gender and Conciliation, we want to express our congratulations to the House groups, we also want to thank him for having supported us to the scientific women and for promoting the Alvarian Law and to all the people, entities, associations and societies that signed the Investrial manifestoGal and supported him to debate and approve this law. Today is a day of celebration, we move forward towards a more egalitarian, tolerant and diverse society. Diversity is wealth, it's value. Thanks to the Alvarino Angeles Law, we firmly believe that women can move forward today with firmer steps. Inequities in the scientific field reflect figures, they are a reality that limits human talent and its potential. Women gradually abandon the professional career, which is known as the dripping tubing, and in addition access to the highest levels of the research career is limited on the basis of the well-known glass ceiling, defined by the scarce presence of women who enter positions of responsibility and who have as effect mirrors their bases on the so-called sticky floor of the institutions. Inequality between men and women is also measured in terms of visibility and recognition of their work. There is a great lack of female referents, and the discoveries of women tend to be less important or less valuable. As a society, we cannot allow women to give up their professional development because they are invisible or discriminated against. We lose that talent, we lose everyone the vision of half humanity, the ability to face common problems from different angles and to move forward as a society. Each case in which women's rights are violated, in which their abilities and abilities are questioned, in which full professional development is prevented is tremendously painful and we have a duty to avoid it. To become aware of the situation is the first step in seeking solutions; however, all such advances will not be complete without a normative framework to guarantee equal opportunities." They end up saying, "Today we all win. Thank you." And I would add: today we lay the foundations of that regulatory framework which has the obligation to ensure that, in fact, we respect that equality of opportunity between all of us. That was the goal -- now I'm going back to our intervention -- when we push this bill from the BNG. A goal that was very clear, that was very concrete and very concise, that was to ensure that in this country, that here in Galicia no woman has to choose again between being a mother or being a scientist, that in no case no woman, but no man, because we do not renounce the one who assumes half of humanity the task that corresponds to her care, that no person, ultimately, in Galicia that decides to have a child is found penalized or conditioned in his research career, in his professional career. We sincerely believe that the text we are discussing today, with the changes that have been made during the work, thanks to the approaches of the other groups, meets that objective and even has been enriched by those amendments. Today this country, we believe from BNG, takes a huge step forward, a huge giant leap and establishes by law the obligation of all public or private bodies, including universities, research centers, but also the Union itself, that they all have an obligation to introduce corrective mechanisms in the various calls to ensure that this time of care does not discriminate in the evaluation processes. And I say that Galicia is taking a huge step forward, a giant leap because there is no other law, neither in the Spanish State nor in any autonomous community nor in any European Union country that collects this in such a specific, specific and so clear manner. [[Applause]] And we sincerely believe that this is reason for pride and that we must collectively bless ourselves by continuing to place this country at the vanguard of gender equality policies, and do so in addition -- I insist a lot on this -- in an area that is strategic for the present but especially for Galicia's economic, social, cultural and human future, as is the scientific and research field. We have demonstrated, once again -- we have already said it in the Commission and I want to underline it again now -- today we have demonstrated unanimously that this law, once again, that in this corner of the Atlantic for which no one looks at things more often progressing without haste but without pause in many areas, such as gender equality. And that's also a reason to keep feeling tremendously proud of being Welsh and being Greek. But I also want to leave here a record of this tremendous pride in being part of the Galician Nationalist Block and in promoting nationalism, in particular, this law. In short -- I don't want to extend myself much more -- today we vote and we finally approve this Alvarinian Angel Law, which I'm sure will continue to be called this way, Alvarin Angeles Law, recognizing, remembering and above all visualizing the very names of those that allowed us to reach where we are today, which in the Anglo-Saxon world is known as heart story, that story starring by us, by women. Today with this final approval of the Alvarin Law, we make our country, we make Galicia, a fairer country, a more democratic country, a more equitable country. And we wait, wait and trust that it will serve as a mirror for other autonomous communities, so that the Spanish State itself and other countries in our surroundings and the world can look, look at it and move forward with us. He used to talk about utopias, someone who knew the utopias well and spoke and wrote a lot of them was Eduardo Galiano. And I would like to remember one of the phrases today -- I think -- more inspiring about this author, who knew and had a very important relationship with our country. Eduardo Galiano said that "little things," little things, that don't end poverty, that don't get us out of underdevelopment, that don't socialize the means of production or change, or expropriate Ali Baba's caves, but that maybe trigger the consciousness of doing and translating it into actions; because ultimately act on reality and change it, even if it requires a little more, it shows us every day that reality is transformable. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs Prado del Río has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u109	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's important not to waste the intellectual capacity of half the population; think about how many more mysteries would be solved if all the capable minds working on a problem doubled and included both men and women. This is a famous reflection by geneticist Marla Sokolowski of Canada, who is giving us feet today to begin the debate of the bill's report to ensure the real equality of women and men in university and research. I also want to thank the two parliamentary groups of the House, the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, for their generosity, because consensus cannot be given unless there is generosity by the parties. And I believe that in this bill, in the processing, in the presentation, all of us, as we say most appropriately, have all been generous and have put women's interests above partisan interests. And that's what really has to make us proud to be representatives of the people of Galicia today. And I also said to Mrs. Rodil that she thanked the House services, and we also thank, especially the Commission's lawyer, Puri, because without that service, without that legal advice, because on many occasions we'd find ourselves in a closed call. And she had light when we were a little stuck and the truth is, we must also thank that very important advice for this work. And also talk about Maria de la Fuente. Mrs. Rodil, you were reading a text that got you the investigators, that InvestGal group, we've also met with different groups of researchers and also with InvestGal so that this bill was as appropriate as possible, as adjusted to the reality and needs of researchers. And I took note so quickly of a phrase that you said in their mouths: "These advances will not be complete until a normative framework is established that contemplates them." And it's a reality, because all of us in the past passed legislation had discussions about the Calvary that Maria de la Fuente suffered and the long way she had to go in the realm of justice so they could give her reason. And I got it in a sentence that unfortunately today is a wet paper for some institutions that at some point have changed the bases of the summons on the basis of that sentence, but that in subsequent summons they went back. So I think today in Galicia we are becoming a beacon to illuminate that path that has to lead other administrations to have a legislative framework that ensures that these advances are a reality. Because, as you can see, the judgment should be inexcusable and should not be seen as something on time or for that particular matter, but as a matter of general scope and which must be applied to all subsequent calls. But as we see it, it is not possible, when we say that Spain is a country that has a lot of advanced legislation in the field of equality, that we have a pro-legislation that guarantees legal equality, so you see, it is not guaranteed on many occasions real equality. And that's why we have to keep legislating, and when sometimes we say, no, there's a lot of legislation, well, that's why it's not enough. And today's adoption of this legislative text shows that, indeed, this matter was required by law. When we proposed this legislative initiative from the People's Party, we did not doubt it for a second, we were aware of the need to introduce amendments to this Legislative Decree 2/2015, of 2 February, changes which, as I said, take one more step forward towards real equality. And in the People's Party we are also aware that the professional and research career of women has countless obstacles, but two fundamentals, which are motherhood and conciliation. Unfortunately, they are not the exclusive obstacles of women in the world of research, unfortunately there are many professional areas where women encounter these obstacles and it is essential to do and take action and continue to work in order to continue to eliminate these obstacles. Well, the bill had three articles that essentially modified article 20 of Legislative Decree 2/2015, and the end was to introduce corrective and objective mechanisms in R & D+i calls to avoid discrimination and/or punishment in case of maternity, paternity and temporary permits for pregnancy, care for dependents and/or breastfeeding. Well, from the parliamentary group that supports the Government, we also want to highlight what is being done in this area since the Galician Union. Although the university has autonomy to adopt equality measures, we consider it important that progress has been made through collaboration between the Union and universities in promoting and disseminating equality in the Greek university system. In the case of research, in the 2021 calls for pre- and post-doctoral aid, a number of improvements were introduced with regard to previous calls and aimed precisely at avoiding such gender discrimination. For the first time this year objective criteria, novices and divergents were introduced which do not exist in any other research call from any other autonomous community but not from the state. Now any researcher can choose whether to present himself to this year's call or to the next 2022 second most interested person according to his personal and private situation. So far only one of the two could be presented and whenever it had obtained a positive assessment, which was mandatory, a requirement that had been eliminated. Therefore, the Board is applying for the first time a flexibility that doubles the choice of any investigator and lowers the requirements for access to a post-doctoral training contract. Galicia is the only state community that first introduced an additional score to compensate for candidates who are out of work, for maternity, paternity or any other medical reason. And this was done to break up with discrimination in accessing these bags. We must remember that these calls are made in a manner that is consistent with the research departments of the universities for the design of the final text, and that these departments have very positively valued the innovative measures implemented. And as I said before, this parliamentary group met with some researchers, with groups of researchers and also with representatives of InvestingGal, and they very positively appreciated these advances. And they also brought more proposals for further progress towards full equality. One of the amendments we tabled was Article 20a(c), as amended by Article 2 of the proposal, which established a closed weighting system. This caused quite a controversy because it seemed that the People's Parliamentary Group wanted to eliminate that weighting system. And nothing further than our intention, on the contrary, was that that correction factor had really guaranteed equal opportunities but on each of the bases of the call for aid that in each case corresponded. It seemed more appropriate for each call to regulate its own corrective factors, and if we do it by law, or if there is some adjustment or if there is some issue that is not foreseen in the law, because it's much more complicated to make a change. Because we would have to bring the law back to Parliament for its amendment and parliamentary procedure may take as little as two and a half months, as soon as possible. But if this takes us at a time when, for example, the end of the year, when all the bases of government summons are in force, because it could be an important prejudgment for researchers at that time. And we therefore consider it more appropriate that each call should have that corrective factor in its call. And we finally came to a text of consensus between the parliamentary groups and also talked to the researchers to make the considerations they thought appropriate. And, well, once we get to a text of consensus, I think we have to be blessed that this is mainly one of the loopholes saved by law and that ultimately satisfies everyone. In Galicia, thanks to the political will of the consensus of this majority group, because it must be remembered that one of the engines of the proposal was the Nationalist Block of Galicia, but the majority group also had a lot to say. And if the majority group had not admitted the procedure or, having admitted the procedure, they had essentially changed the whole bill because today we wouldn't be talking about these terms. And I want to value that generosity that I used to talk about all groups and basically the majority group. The corrective factor in each case that allows for compensating periods of investigative inactivity and ensuring equal opportunities today is a reality in the legislative text. There is no legislation or summons, not only in Spain, but in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, in Europe. I have been looking at other calls at European level and none has such a system to guarantee equal opportunities by law. Galicia is a pioneer and this is a collective success, of all political forces represented in this chamber. Where was the difficulty in establishing such a barrier in investigative summons? For the difficulty was that what you get there is merit, it's not time worked, it's the goal; one works six months or a year and we're used to seeing summons at which 0.10 points per year worked. No, we're talking about merits, publications, stays abroad. And setting a correction factor in that area could cause inequality, trying to correct another inequality. So this is where I think it was the most important technical difficulty of the law, and I think we can get there to a text that, I insist, satisfies and tries to guarantee equal opportunities. By analysing the proposals of the InvestmentGal group, there would be other possibilities: whether the lows were taken into account or whether the criteria were flexible in order to carry out the project, so that we believe that the best was that decision, that each call will set the most appropriate criteria for the specific case. But we focus the debate very much on this matter, but I think it's also important to highlight other articles of law that also acquire fundamental progress. The law is very ambitious; for example, article 1.1.f)di: "Ensuring that the time spent on enjoying permits or on day-to-day reductions for conciliation reasons, the care of minors, relatives or dependents does not adversely affect the training and teaching career of researchers." Point 2(a) when it states that "universities have to ensure compliance with the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of gender, both direct and indirect, and effective equality of women and men in the teaching career of researchers. Or (c) "To design methods of assessment of non-discriminatory scientific and academic quality on the basis of gender". Or when paragraph f) I explicitly stated that "in the selection and/or evaluation processes of the professional academic trajectory, the time intervals dedicated to the enjoyment of permits and with daily reductions by conciliation, care of minors or dependents should be excluded if they cause a negative impact on the person concerned." And there is also another important paragraph, which is Article 2(a) which says: "Autonomous administration must compute -- this verb is very important -- as time of investigative inactivity, time of permission and maternity, paternity, risk during pregnancy and/or breastfeeding and temporary disability associated with pregnancy." Well, ladies and gentlemen, with this law, today Galicia we are going far beyond any other legislation, beyond what the State states in Law 14/2011 of science, technology and innovation in its additional provision tenth third, and the reality is that today this legislation of 2011 is undeveloped, it is unregulated as if we should take into account these circumstances that we regulate today in Galicia and, therefore, I think today is a great day, because today in Galicia we are taking a big step in progress towards real equality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Prado del Río. The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments; in this case, it corresponds to the Nationalist Block Galego and the People's Parliamentary Group. I've already explained it to Mrs. Díaz Varela. So first of all, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u111	Two reflections. As for the amendments, we will indeed support the amendments that keep the Socialist Party alive, we have also done so in debate and in committee, we feel that they would enrich the text, but in any case I wanted to finish our intervention with two broader reflections on the whole of the law. The first is that the rights cannot be at the expense of the will, of the goodwill of a government or of a person running a team, or of a group, or of an institution, or of a public body, of which it has more or less sensitivity, of which it has more or less gender perspective in this case, or of which it has more or less training. And the way to ensure that it doesn't remain the arbitrariness of people who pass through the sites or who have responsibilities at a given time, that is, the way to get rights guaranteed and to be real and effective is to incorporate them into the legal order, as we are doing here today. That is why, and I take the thread of Mrs Prado's intervention, so we insist both on Article 20a in that paragraph (c) in how it was concrete and how this obligation was met to have to be computed as a correction factor and that that computation was through weighting. Precisely in the case that Mrs. Prado... which she referred to, I also did in the first intervention, which is the case of Maria de la Fuente, and which after that sentence which gave her reason and recognized her rights and which obliged the entity that had violated them, that was the institute Carlos III, to have to repeat that assessment without discrimination against her or anyone else, when they again draw the summons, they take them out the same way again. The way we have from the part that touches us as Welsh in this Parliament to ensure that this cannot happen here in Galicia in any case is precisely advancing with this law, and doing so with that clarity and with that realization, does not subject itself to interpretations or excessive interpretations, as set out in Article 20a. From there the insistence, too, and the stubbornness, as it were in some way, in concepts. Especially in order to prevent the situations that were taking place today and which motivated the complaints before the valet of some of the scientists' people and which also motivated the work that has brought us here from InvesGal and the researchers and the scientists of Greece. And, in that sense, the second reflection today that comes out is this law. The time that sets the law itself in its final provision is a period of three months since its entry into force so that all bodies, institutions, public and private entities, Galician Union itself, can be adapted to what regulations say. We are going to be very vigilant, but we also urge, in order not to break the tone, what we urge is precisely from the BNG both the Galician Union and the public universities as any public or private body that is part and has something to say in these calls, in the career ultimately, of the scientists and researchers of our country, who are getting to work, so that, from the entry into force already real and effective of these three months of adaptation, the calls that are published in Galicia are perfectly in line with what we have or will now have our legal order and that, therefore, the fundamental rights and human rights of half the population of Galicia are guaranteed in a real and effective way. We're not a collective -- with all due respect for those who wear glasses -- we're not people wearing glasses, we're half the humanity who are denied and violated -- they're sorry to play -- but we're half the humanity who's being violated and denied human rights, fundamental rights, and today we're giving a little more passage here from Galicia so that that that situation will cease to be in our country. And since the BNG we've also said it in the commission and we've been reviewing it now, we've begun to work from now on so that these policy changes will arrive at the Congress of Deputies to the legal order of the Spanish State and we hope that other countries in our surroundings and the world will follow this path that we are opening here today. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. As a first question, Mrs. Rodil said that we can not only leave things in the political will to do or not, but it is that political will is fundamental too, Mrs. Rodil, because the legal order actually already regulates that maternity cannot be a discriminatory factor, so Mary de la Fuente gives her reason in the courts, because the legal order already envisages non-discrimination on the grounds of gender, in this case by motherhood. What is important is that, in addition to the legal system and in addition to the regulatory framework, there is political will. And I was putting into force the political will of the Council of Galicia when it's already launching summons that have correctional factors to avoid this kind of discrimination without the need for a policy framework like what we approve today. If this is important, I say that this is important because it's also more focused on issues and sort out those situations that could be given, but it's not because the legal system doesn't consider it. As far as the Socialist Party's amendments are concerned, the truth is, we've already talked about this, Mrs Díaz. You're presenting a series of amendments that, for us, get a little bit into what university autonomy is, is an invasion of university autonomy. For example, Amendment 5 says: "Development of postgraduate and doctorate specialization in gender studies." The Galician board can't intervene in that design, they belong to universities. And in Amendment No 4: "It will be guaranteed that in all phases of research projects an analysis of gender or gender will be incorporated." So we've already told you that you can't, it's unattainable that in all phases of projects if you do that kind of parity evaluation, it doesn't make any sense. We have to do it at the beginning, and from there on, the project goes on. You in your Amendment 8 also say, "Develop specific support measures for young researchers." They also don't specify what the age line of that youth is, what do we understand about youth? Then in Amendment 10: "To incorporate the gender perspective into the disciplines and areas of knowledge through teaching and research on the scope and meaning of equality between women and men." Or 11: "Incorporating curricular proposals in terms of gender perspective and equality." Well, we believe that they are invasion of university autonomy and unique and exclusively we cannot support these amendments on this issue. I would like to conclude once again by enhancing the consensus of the parliamentary groups in order to achieve this legislative text which we now approve of a real equality. Equality has to be a meeting place and not an ideological trench that parties use as a weapon is bouncing against the adversary, because in the field of equality I'm sure there are more things that unite us than they separate us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Prado del Río. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 5th, on Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 on the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is maintained and, for the presentation of the commission's dictation, the Chairman of Commission 5th, Ms. María Corina Porro Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u115	Thank you again, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill amending Law No 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 on the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, formulated by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, was entered in the register of Parliament on 1 March 2021, with a number of seats 11.910 and its admission to the procedure was carried out by the Bureau of Parliament at the meeting on 2 March. Following its consideration at the plenary meeting on 13 April, the deadline for tabling amendments to the joint was opened, which ended on 28 May and agreed to be processed by Commission 5th. The amendments tabled and admitted to the procedure were a total of 12,8 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Commission 5th, on Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 10 June, appointed the rapporteur to draw up the report on the same date as, after the next two meetings, with the assistance of the rapporteurs, Mrs Prado del Río, Mrs Rodil Fernández and Mrs Díaz Varela, he prepared the report with the final recommendations which they issued on 23 June. At its meeting on 1 July, the Committee adopted unanimously the opinion that the debate and vote should be put to the vote in this plenary session, with the addition of 6 amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 2 of them dealt with and 4 subsumed, and 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, 3 of them dealt with, as well as the corresponding technical amendments, and whose text consists, in addition to the explanatory statement, of a single article divided into four paragraphs and one additional provision, a rogatory and two last. It is therefore necessary to complete today the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the bill amending Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u116	Thank you. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u117	Thank you, President. Good again. "You won't see him again in life." Your mother's a bitch. "In your family you're all whores." "You're as stupid as your mother." "If you leave me, I'll take your kids off. You're not going to see them anymore. You'll see what happens to them. I'll make them hate you." What they just heard is what many women victims of mistreatment and people close to them, especially minors, hear daily in their homes. Yells, insults, physical and psychological damage, threats. Finally, to keep fear or terror in the woman through the harm to those who hold with it some bond of affectivity. And that woman, who feels pain and suffering, also feels a guilt that causes her to endure this calvary for fear of her leading to a fatal situation. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the reality that thousands of women live every day in our country. This is vicarous violence, the harm the man is inflicting through other people, because he knows that damage to them is to secure harm to the woman from which he will never recover. It is the most silent and invisible form of violence, and that is what we bring to this Parliament today for its approval. I have to begin, after this beginning, I do want to start by putting into force the agreement of the three parliamentary groups that, in the field of macho violence, we have left out all the confrontation and we are going together in which will undoubtedly be a breath for many women. Because, recognizing the vicar violence as a more form of macho violence, there will be women who dare to denounce their terrible situation, or even break up with that more than toxic relationship that they've probably been suffering for years. I also have, I always forget, to thank the House for its service, particularly from Puri to the lawyer, that thanks to it this process has been since more simple processing. Gender violence is indeed the most cruel manifestation of the inequality that exists between women and men regardless of their level, of their social, cultural, economic level, of both the people who exercise it and the people who suffer it. In a strict sense, the Vicar is associated with people who perform a function in place of another. This in a strict sense; therefore, the Vicar is, as we have seen exposing, a form of violence towards the woman that conceptualizes and instrumentalizes people approached as objects to cast them against the mother at their discretion. We're talking about the mother, then we'll talk about other cases. It appears in most cases after divorce or after the denunciation of ill-treatment of gender-based violence, and the ultimate goal is to continue mistreating the woman through whom, once separated the couple, for example, has access, which are normally the children and the daughters, through whom they know they will cause irreversible harm to these women who have been enduring such mistreatment, that violence by them and by them. In his maximum expression, that man actually kills those people, but it doesn't have to be that way, and we'll explain it right now. What is always coincident, always coincident is the cruelty they act with, which they only intend to paralyze that woman. I want to explain here our amendments, which were a total of 8, as the chairman of the commission has already explained, and that with six transactions or subsumeds have since improved, we think that very remarkably the scope of the intended. And I say this in three directions. On the one hand, for the Socialist Group, it was vital for the PSdeG to specify that vicar violence is not any violence, it is the violence that is always exercised with the sole objective of harming women. Because that's the only purpose, through third persons, of the people most dear to her, to harm the woman, to cause immense harm to her in addition to terrorizing her as well. And that was one of the amendments we proposed. On the other hand, with our amendments we broadened the scope of that vicarous violence that was proposed in the text, understanding that this violence does not have to have only as a result of murder or murder. The initial text formulated only the violence exercised as a result of death, but the reality is that vicarous violence doesn't necessarily have to result in death. Vicar violence is also violent through physical or psychological damage, especially psychological, exercised on people who are approaching them, actually and normally the children and the minors, are their children and children, but not just those minors. And what we're talking about, as we say, is causing damage to the woman. Because if either murder or murder is true it is the most extreme situation, unfortunately there are many others, in fact most of them the cases of men who use people close to women to go on a silent violence over time, as we said at the beginning. The situations can be very diverse, we've talked about, and we've explained them here sometimes, it's instrumentalizing children and children to harm mothers. And how? Well, not being negligent in the care or hygiene of these children too during the visits, arriving late at deliveries, watching or insulting the mother or her family in front of them. Manipulate these children and children, but also other adult people who approach women to watch or control them, negative speaking to them, insulting them or withholding authority from them, and often also terrorizing them through psychological or physical violence. It is also appropriate to explain that in this sense they are taking steps in the state. Just when we were discussing this bill in Galicia, an additional provision was approved in Congress, by the vote in favour of the three groups that we are in this House, and an additional provision in the law on the protection of children and adolescents against violence, which amends organic law 1/2004, of measures to protect against gender-based violence, and which incorporates vicar violence, which aims to cause prejudice or harm to women is being exercised on their family members or persons close to their age, and so on, that was the meaning of our amendment that modified the original text. And thirdly, we also proposed, the PSdeG also proposed the deletion of the article which established that the way to believe vicarous violence was the conviction of murder or murder. Obviously, in line with what we said earlier, we could think, for example, of a recent case like that of the Canary Islands girls, that case where the judge determined in a car the vicarous violence, that is, a trial with all the evidence determines that there would be vicarous violence in that case, but obviously there can't be a sentencing judgment. We think it would then happen in cases similar to that, by taking a reference, in which the man remains missing and, as I say, there can therefore never be a sentence. Having said this, it is true that the rest of the groups have understood our proposal and, although they have decided to keep reference to that conviction, they also add that there can be any other document that believes it, something which, in our understanding, already existed in the articulation of the law, but, well, the rest of the groups also preferred to keep it and logically most parliamentary orders and we did not put any more objection. I also have to say, as I have already said at the briefings and also at the committee, that although there is agreement, because in this matter there must be agreement and there must always be agreement, that our group seemed more fair, speaking of these last issues that I am talking about, not to establish different types of levels of violence, to eliminate the explicit mention of murder or murder, because although it is the most extreme form, as we say, it is not the most common and, in this way, it seems to us that the focus is being put on, it seems to us that we are putting the focus on a specific fact or establishing different types of violence. We proposed to leave it in any form of violence and not to make that expression. In any case, what we are grateful for is that there was consensus in understanding that vicar violence is sadly expensive and not all of them end up dead. So, as I say, let's take one more step with our amendments and, as a reference to the State Covenant against Gender Violence and Legislation in this sense as well and in some other autonomous community, we move forward to recognize vicarious violence when it is practised a kind of damage, always with the intention of causing pain and suffering in the battered woman. It's not the debate today, we know it's not the debate, but we'll also have to talk thoroughly about the possibility, or... this group wanted to bring here this debate about the possibility that batterers continue to see their children and daughters in these visits. By nullifying that possibility, we're also putting a stop to vicar violence. Not at all, but of course the one who wields these abusive men over their sons and daughters, because the visiting regime is usually the space where vicarous violence manifests almost always. We have to keep in mind that a bully will never be a good father. Furthermore, according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, last year only 3.01 % of cases -- only 3.01 % of cases! --the visit plans were cancelled as a precautionary measure. In that sense, justice, and since politics, from political groups we must demand it, must act vigorously and from there, as we have also claimed, the importance of compulsory training in the field of gender in the issue of justice. The Organic Law on Integral Protection for Children, which we have already mentioned, incorporates, in this sense, several measures, for example, the reform of article 94 of the Civil Code, which incorporates the rejection of a scheme of visits to the parent who is undergoing criminal proceedings for domestic violence or gender violence. But, well, we have to keep working in this direction. As I say, this is not the debate today, nor is it likely to be a debate in this House, but if it should start a social debate in which we and all should agree, and I hope so. In essence, and I'm going to finish, today we are only complying with the Istanbul Convention, which defines violence against women as all acts of violence based on gender that involve or may involve for women physical, sexual, psychological or economic damage or suffering, including threats to conduct such acts, arbitrary coercion or deprivation of liberty in public or private life. Today we are finally complying with this Istanbul Convention. And to finish, I also wanted, from this parliamentary group, to show our satisfaction or to bless us for agreeing, rather than just agreeing, but not to amend any of the other groups' initial proposal that this legislative amendment be retroactive. It is crucial that this legislative change is retroactive. We wouldn't understand, of course, that it wasn't; it's a question of social justice for all those women who have suffered this abuse for years and who unfortunately will accompany them throughout their lives. For our own sake, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u119	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. We are about to pass the law that will recognize vicar violence as a form of gender-based violence, I would say that possibly in its most extreme, most cruel and twisted form of malevolent terrorism. With this step ahead, women and children who suffer from vicar violence will have greater protection by considering them for all the victims of gender-based violence, because we know that this statute gives more rights, it also gives more help, it gives more support and gives more protection. And so I want first to thank the support and acknowledge the contributions made by both the Group of the People's Party and the Group of the Socialist Party in Mrs. Paula Prado and Mrs. Noa Díaz, whose collaboration will allow this legislative proposal, which at first pushed the BNG, because it has become a law for all of this Parliament, enabling Galicia to sit in the legal vanguard in the fight against gender violence, and also to recognize that this step forward at the last extreme really merit is collective of women and feminism who have been fighting for so long for the recognition of the struggle against male violence. [[Applause]] And today is one of those moments where we prove that politics can improve people's lives, where we hear and act to protect those who need it most, and I'm sure there are many women who feel that this Parliament is what it should be: their home and a place where they meet their demands and where they work to protect them and protect them in a situation that nobody should go through. In short, today in this Parliament we are taking an important step in the fight against male violence and in defending women's right to be free and equal. Throughout the whole planet, every day, every minute by being women, we are subjected to a gender-based violence that discriminates against us and attacks us. A violence that in the most extreme case kills, and all this in the face of an administrative, political, judicial and police system that is unable to prevent us from having to endure one of the most obvious examples of human rights violations, such as violence against men. Since 2013, there have been 41 cases of vicar violence in the Spanish state as a whole. 90.4% were children and daughters killed by their biological parents to exercise on mothers the greatest of the tortures they can imagine, which is to take away the being they can most desire, and I obviously think it's impossible to imagine the pain that a woman can feel at that time, and we have to put everything in our hands to prevent these kinds of situations. At the very least today, we can give comfort to many and we can offer to many women and also to minors greater protection through a law which has to provide more tools to help them, precisely with that status as a victim of macho violence, and of course corrects injustice, because it left many destitute at the worst moment and in the worst possible scenario. Now they'll have recognized by law that right to economic, labor, social, psychological aid and will be under the scope of the action protocol for women who suffer from macho violence. I would like to point out that the final text that we are going to vote on, which has been enriched during the presentation process, is to amend Law 11/2007 for the comprehensive prevention and treatment of gender-based violence with three contributions that we consider to be key. The first is to establish a definition of vicarous violence that is broader and more concrete, from our point of view, than that which is collected at the state level. In that sense, the law of Galicia goes to regard vicar violence as male violence for all effects, murder, murder or any other form of violence exercised against the sons and daughters of the woman. It is also recognized that there are other cases in which people can be closely attached to them and what is the purpose, which is to cause psychological damage precisely by whom their spouse or partner was, even if they did not have a relationship with each other. Secondly, this amendment incorporates a new way of believing vicar violence as a masculine violence, in particular that conviction of criminal order or any judicial order that establishes that women have suffered vicarious violence in any of the modalities defined in this law. We believe it is important that this should be maintained, because what it does is to expand how the formulas of macho violence can be recognised, which does not limit those already provided for in the law and which, therefore, is something that adds up and which, in any case, has a meaning that is maintained in this text. The third question that we want to highlight and which seems to us a key contribution is precisely the retroactivity of the law, so that all women who in the past suffered this terrible form of macho terrorism are protected by the Statute of the victim of gender-based violence, because it seems to us to be an act of justice to all of them. It's obvious that this law is to apply in practice many of those who have already come to recognize reports and jurisprudence of the courts, which also collects the Istanbul Convention and puts an end to a situation which for us was incomprehensible by injustice but also, ethically, intolerable. Likewise, it is also true that there was a recognition in the State Covenant against Gender Violence on the topic of Vicar Violence, and we also find it positive that progress is being made in all areas, because we know that it is important that laws have content that fits the definition as closely as possible. And ultimately we also know that the laws alone don't solve the problems, being very important, and all the laws of gender-based violence were steps forward in terms of visibility and fighting against violence. But we know that laws need resources. Specifically, the key to us is that there has to be more resources for equal education and that we go to the root of the problem, which is the use of violence as an element of control for women and where we know that we have to walk towards a society where equality exists and where women's right to be free is respected. But we also know that there are important intermediate steps on this path, and one key is that there are more resources for early detection of gender-based violence and also of vicarous violence, and we think that at this point it's important to think about it. According to data from the macroeconomic survey made by the Ministry of Equality in 2020, it is said that in the Spanish state there are 1.6 million children living in homes where their mother suffers from macho violence and therefore they are also in an environment of violence. The experts themselves are saying that vicar violence does not follow a parameter or pattern that can be put into a mathematical model and that cases of vicar violence are present day by day with threats, with control over women, through their children and children. And they tell us that there are previous signs, when minors return to their mother's home with broken clothing after having a visit with their father or shared custody, even if there are cases where they are stopped medical treatment during the stay with their batter, or even when they speak badly of the mother in front of the children or children, or they use minors to insult the woman. And all these cases are important that we have mechanisms and resources to be able to detect, act and avoid because we have greater harm. And there needs to be an important effort to improve these early detection mechanisms, because we know it's a useful tool to preserve women's rights and also children's lives without violence. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to finish this speech precisely with the voices of the women who have gone through such an experience and who I think it is important that we recognize it because they have made us and brought us up with a report that they have drawn up from their own reflections, evaluations and opinions. Exactly in this report, women asked us to act to put an end to their disappearance in such diverse aspects as legal, psychological or economic. They asked us to do an exercise of empathy to understand the devastation that remains for years and years. They asked us to promote changes within our competences to educate on an equal basis, to defend those who need it and to respond with appropriate measures to address the problems before they occur. These are the words of women who have gone through the worst of their experiences and we have to know that they have felt helpless, unprotected, but despite all this, they have had the generosity and the ability to talk to us about this situation in a constructive way to ask us to find solutions. Modestly, I think today with this law we are telling you that we hear them, understand them, and take steps forward to protect them and move forward towards a society that is more equal and more respectful of women's rights. Because with this law, we're putting solutions in place to help them get out of the way after a dramatic experience that they have to learn to live forever; solutions for those who are forced to change their place of residence, which we know in the most extreme cases are many, because enduring psychological burden is very difficult, and anonymity is a tool that they have to be able to overcome and rise to such pain; and also solutions to be able to have a livelihood, because there are many cases where emotional shocks invalids in order to continue to work, many lose their work and remain in a situation of really lots of vulnerability. I think today many of these women feel that there is a focus of hope in this Parliament because we are holding their hand, we are learning from their experience, and above all we are giving them rights that they have not so far had. And that's what makes a law great, it gives rights beyond what a government of turn wants to do, and I think that since political action it fights against gender violence it needs much more than minutes of silence or photos of solidarity. Today we take a big step forward, but there's a lot of work to do, and there's a lot left to strengthen the protection, women's right to live without violence, and that we have all the means to prevent cases of gender-based violence, of vicar violence from occurring. And I think it's also important that we remember that report that moved us women victims of violence would save us in our country where they said that there are issues that we have to give them an urgent answer. That the workers and the workers of the courts, the police, the social services, the CIS have specific training in gender-based violence capable of making effective and real risk assessments; that there are protocols of action in cases of violence that would lead to cases, such basic issues as communicating the facts themselves to the victim, health care or psychological care, because we know that psychological care in the most extreme cases is an assistance that is not ordinary, which are very expensive and long therapies and that there is also a lot to improve. They asked for a protocol for the media to facilitate the coverage of facts, but preserving the privacy and privacy of victims by avoiding sensationalism, overexposure and unsolicited and unwanted media pressure, or they also told us about the creation of other types of aid, such as scholarships for many, as well as aid for economic burdens derived from tragedy, such as management costs, insurance, lawyers, resources, administrative and legal procedures. We know that there is always in the fight against violence, much to do, that this law is not the end of the way, but it is a step forward towards a goal of a society free from macho violence, and that is why you would like me to finish my intervention today in the name of the Galego Nationalist Block by once again thanking the contributions of all the groups to this law, which ultimately does not cease to be a door to hope and also to pick up the glove that many women have thrown into this country that have gone through a very painful situation, and that it is a pride that this Parliament also gives them an answer in which we hear them and in which we hold them by hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u121	Thank you, President. Elizabeth Yardley, director of the Centre for Applied Criminology at Birmingham University of Social Sciences, conducted an investigation into parents who murdered their children and children in the United Kingdom since the 1980s during the visit periods, or when those children were under their care, and since then the number of such crimes has been increasing every year. Yardley called them his family's annihilators. He said that for these men divorce and the loss of their family are lived as an attack on their masculinity, and killing their children is an shocking and dramatic way to yell at the world: look how powerful they are. We're not talking about men who betrayed their nerves or who had a prompt or impulse. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're talking about violent men, narcissistic men, who consider women and their sons and daughters to be mere objects they don't deserve to be if they can't dominate them and they don't belong to them. In the 21st century, we have not eradicated from our society the most cruel expression of inequality: violence against women. From the most subtle and everyday expressions to the most horrendous and incarnated that culminate in extreme violence, the elimination of life. Today we are debating the ruling of the bill reforming Law 1/2007 for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. It was proposed to amend Article 3, which defines forms of gender-based violence, and to include vicarous violence, as a further form of gender-based violence as described in the legislative text. We already have physical violence, psychological violence, economic violence, sexual violence and sexual abuse, sexual harassment, trafficking in women and children for exploitation. For within the forms of gender-based violence there is a particularly sadistic and ruthless one, which is the so-called vicarial violence. It is the one who is exercised about the children and daughters to do irreparable harm to the mother, to kill a child alive so that she lives kidnapped by the pain of her absence and her cruel death. In Galicia we've had some terrible episode of vicar violence, that of the Moraña killer, the sadist, cold and calculator David Oubel, that we all remember with a shudder. I'm upset at my heart just to remember him, just like Valga's case, that they were not sons and daughters, but that he was a direct family, she was the mother and she was the victim's sister. And that, unfortunately, in recent times, is a kind of violence that is all about it, because we are experiencing pain in a terrible situation, where two girls, Ana and Olivia, are protagonists, and from here all our affection and solidarity for their mother, as well as for all the mothers who have suffered or suffered this kind of violence every day. The incorporation of amendments and the debate in the paper greatly enriched the text initially presented, and the contributions of the groups were incorporated with the advice of the House's legal services, to whom we particularly appreciate their work, because we have been able to draw up a technically impeccable, precise, rigorous and clear legislative text that addresses all possible situations in this area. This gave rise to a lot of debate in the presentation, because, as Mrs. Díaz said in effect, the Children's Law makes an inclusion there in a final provision on vicarious violence, but here we wanted to measure the words a lot, because we did not just want murder and murder to be included as vicarous violence, but also any kind of violence. Those expressions that have already been expressed in the debate, such as "I have taken away your children," or psychological violence against children, that is vicarous violence. And Mrs. Diaz was talking about the documents of accreditation of this violence, because not only is it a sentence, not just a car, but also from tomorrow on a psychological report of a child or a child who suffers from vicarious violence can already be the first step to go to a judge to determine that that child or child is suffering violence from his father and turns into vicarous violence towards his mother. We consider it important to address this form of violence from a point of view, as I said, wider, not only the last, the most dramatic, the irreversible: death, murder. We believe it's important to include all the other kinds of violence that can be exercised, about the mother and about the children, because any kind of expression, I used to say to Mrs. Díaz some, but the first thing they usually say when they're in a separation or divorce process is, "If you leave me, I'll take your children away from you." That's vicar violence, that's already causing pain in the mother and the woman, who's also kidnapping her sometimes in her own relationship. I mean, she's causing that mother not to step in to separate herself from that man because she's kidnapped by these threats, because what she cares most about right now is her children, protecting the children and the children who live with her, her children and daughters, and so often vicar violence itself is a life prison for mothers who suffer it. In everyday practice, on many occasions we have found men who have never taken care of the care of their sons and daughters during the couple's relationship and, at the time of divorce or separation, demand shared custody and even some full custody, invoking a false equity in the care of children and daughters who did not exist before, because their true intention is not to look after these children or children, but to continue mistreating the woman, now well through the sons and daughters. And that's why shared custody is already forbidden in cases where there is a pre-existing situation of gender violence. And I think, from tomorrow, once it comes into force, tomorrow or these days, once it's published in the Official Journal of Galicia, all these issues have to be taken very seriously by all the courts of Galicia. When you give a shared custody or a visit regimen, you have to be very careful, you have to listen to your mothers a lot, and you have to do a detailed analysis of who those children are left, in the hands of those who leave them, and what are the real intentions of that father. The People's Parliamentary Group is in favour of introducing this form of violence into the Welsh legislature from the very first moment, but we must add that in Galicia, even if it had not been in the legislation, the Greek Government was already making the necessary means available to those victims and had already been doing action on the subject for years; as I say, since 2015. That's why, Mrs. Díaz, we never questioned retroactivity, because, I insist, in Galicia it was already being done. And I would like to point out that in the Group of the People's Parliament, we have not only admitted the legislative text, but we have enriched the law and introduced some amendments that have been incorporated. Vicar violence is instrumental violence against displaced women about what they want most, usually about children, but also about the more direct family. And, as I said, in Galicia since 2015 and without the provision of a specific autonomous legislation or a state regulatory framework, we have already guaranteed victims of vicarious violence as victims of gender-based violence all the help and services of our competition associated with this condition, and not only when it comes to children or children of the victim, but also direct relatives. They were already making use of all the support resources, all the aid that applied to the victim's status, including specialized psychological care, Mrs. Pontón. That's why in the presentation we support the consideration that the mothers of children murdered by their parents, orphans and orphans of mothers murdered by their partners or ex-husbands are also recognized as victims of gender violence. But from the People's Parliamentary Group we wanted to go further, as I said before, and once we admitted the procedure we amended to include in that recognition the violence exercised over any other person closely attached to it, in order to cause greater psychological harm on the part of anyone who is or was his spouse, or because he had a similar relationship with her of affectivity, still without coexistence. As I said before, I want to highlight -- and I think it's very important, because it's a fundamental step forward -- that we're not only talking about vicarious violence when there's a murder or murder; any other form of violence exercised against the women's children or any other person closely attached to it from now on will be considered vicarous violence. Galicia, once again, is being the first to legislate on vicar violence, even though these women and young victims are already being recognized as such and beneficiaries of aid in services at the disposal of the Victim's Statute since 2015. We consider this step as a giant, ladies and gentlemen, to be accompanied by an act of true commitment to the equality of the Government of Spain. We've talked about it in committee, Mrs. Díaz. It is important that the Government of Spain abide by the State Covenant, which does not patch the comprehensive Gender Violence Act, which makes a real amendment and update of the law from 2004 to 2021. There are many measures of the State Pact yet to be complied with, and I think it's important that we put the umbrella from the state so that all autonomous communities have the same direction and we're not here legislating in 17 different places. I'm done. Once again, I would like to emphasize the political will and thank the parliamentary groups for that desire for consensus, that generosity, and I believe that it is a proof of equality today that agreements can be reached and I would like not only in this area to be possible, but also in others which are important for Galicia, we can also gain important agreements and consensus that are supposed to make progress in our society. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Prado del Río. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups to be defined on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists in Galicia. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón. Give a voice to Mrs. Pontón's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u123	Well, we simply, as I said in my first speech, are not going to support the amendment of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, because we think it doesn't make much sense. We have a law that was already a very advanced law, because it allowed the accreditation of gender-based violence without being convicted and therefore opened many avenues for the recognition of gender-based violence. We understand that this law applies to all forms of violence and therefore to vicarous violence, and the fact that it increases recognition through a far-reaching criminal sentence of subtracting what is added in any case is effective and predictable, and I simply want to finish this intervention by thanking the work of the whole world, the recognition and impulse that feminism has given it to the struggle against machist violence, and remaining with that today in this Parliament we will unanimously agree a law that is a step to give some light and hope to many women who have lived in a situation that I, of course, believe that the aspiration we must collectively have to have is that no one else must live it again, and above all with an impulse that at this time is the responsibility of the Government and that Parliament approves laws but, of course, the governments have to put all their hands in order to execute it. And in this area, the important thing is that there is real impulse to prevention, that we have more means and more resources, and especially that we do not forget that violence is a means that is used to try to dominate women, and that we have to work for a Galician with free women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u124	Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río. Please give Mrs. Prado a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u125	Thank you, President. Indeed, I had not planned to intervene now because I thought that this amendment was not alive and we had reached the agreement to introduce, to compromise that not only the sentence, but any document that believed in violence; as I said in my speech, even a psychological report can believe, once the law enters into force, that there is vicarous violence, and therefore our law is very advanced in this sense, our law, the title that identifies a woman as a victim of gender violence goes beyond even that state law, a simple report of Social Services is sufficient to believe that a woman is a victim of gender violence. And, as I said before, I believe it is important and fundamental to comply with the State Covenant and that this is one of the challenges that Mrs. Díaz is about to determine, and it is important that she amends and updates the law of 2004 because the State Covenant includes that enabling title, that title that recognizes a woman as a victim of gender violence. I think this, today we have taken an important step; unfortunately it will not be the last one we have given in this direction, but I think it is important to continue to advance in the conquest of women's rights and in the conquest of real equality, despite the fact that every day we continue to have more legislation and more normative frameworks than they had. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We will wait until all over the world because I believe that this occasion deserves all Members to vote. It was a great example of the essence of good parliamentaryism. For me it was very good, which you want me to tell you, this is to reach a consensus as it has been achieved because it is magnificent. We will then wait for all Members and Members to come in to vote. [[Pause.]] We will wait because the times have been short, only one Member is missing, but I would like everyone to vote. Let's wait, it's okay, it's just a minute. It'll show up. [[Pause.]] We didn't get it located. I don't know. They're showing up more. Many Members are missing. Many Members are missing. Many Members are missing and I would like this vote to be a vote of all Members. We'll wait a second if we can. What's the matter? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Like three? That's why, but it was because the times were cut short. [[Murmurs.]] It was not calculated because they were shortened. Please! If they have so much interest in voting, but let's wait a minute longer to see if they can vote. Please, I don't think it's that complicated. Well, please, two such important laws have to be voted on. No, this is what I would do in any way, I think there are laws that... [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] No, no, please! Don't we have any news? If the problem isn't that we have more or less, if it's going to come out unanimously. The problem is that I would like all Members to vote, but if it is not possible, it is not possible. We started by voting on the legislative texts. Voting of the bill and the bills We begin by voting on amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia to the draft law on recognition of private university Intercontinental University of the Company, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 34. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. Voting amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to the draft law on recognition of private university Intercontinental University of the Company, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 34. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. And finally, we voted for the Commission's Ditam, with the amendments that have been incorporated before. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, on the draft law on recognition of private university Intercontinental University of Enterprise, based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. Consequently, the law on recognition of the private university Intercontinental University of the Company based in the Autonomous Community of Galicia is passed. We continue with the vote on the amendments and the Ditame issued by the Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment on the Proposal for a Law amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February 2015 and the consolidated text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality to ensure the real equality of women and men in the field of university and research is hereby approved. First, the amendments maintained by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which are 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 17 and 18, are put to the vote. Voting the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia is a proposal for a law amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February, and the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality is hereby approved, to ensure the real equality of women and men in the field of university and research. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 34. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. And we now vote on the Ditame of the committee with the amendments incorporated. Voting of Ditame, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February, and the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on equality is hereby approved, in order to ensure the real equality of women and men in the field of university and research. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the Law amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February is hereby approved, and the Consolidated Text of the Legal Provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality is hereby approved, in order to ensure the real equality between women and men in university and research. We continue with the votes, in this case of the amendments maintained and the dictatorship issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence. First of all, we voted for the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia to the Bill on Reform Bill 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 53. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. We now vote on the Ditame of the committee. Ditame vote, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the Law on Reform of Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 on the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence is passed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u127	The votes have been finished here, and now we continue with the plenary, in this case with the motions. Mr. Orange, what do you want the word for? Excuse me, give a voice to Mr. Arunguena's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u128	I wanted to record our repulsiveness by the way the private university law vote was manipulated. Because, Mr President, and I would like to point out, you said that there was a missing member of the PP and it was not true, you waited until the majority were present to pass this law. [[Applause]] Five, six or seven were missing. Therefore, Mr President, we express our rejection for this manipulation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u129	I think it's right. What I can assure you is that in my head there was only the vote of [...]. The rest is interpretation. You can believe me. [[Murmurs.]] I'm a pretty loyal man. You can interpret whatever you want and keep track. Now, this presidency in this case did not act maliciously; it would have done so... well, that's interpretable. Perfect! Let's get to the point of the motions. Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the incompatibility of Galician social inclusion income with the perception of the minimum vital income No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u130	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u131	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u132	Indeed, you have avoided, Mr President of Parliament, that an unprecedented fact possibly happened in this House, but I also want to record in addition to this opposition by the Nationalist Block of Wales how the times were instrumentalized so that the People's Party had the absolute majority in voting on the law of private university, not instrumentalizing the two equal laws to try to cover political decisions. [[Applause]] And now we're going to the motion debate. Today we bring from the BNG this motion referring to the income of Galician social inclusion, in which we defend measures in two senses or for two purposes. First, forgiveness or bonus to one hundred percent of the accounts claimed by the Union to the persons receiving this economic benefit, as you know, are being claimed huge amounts of money, ranging from 3,000 to 5,000 euros, after being granted retroactively the minimum vital income. These people are being treated as real fraud and they're not, they're not, they're not cheating. They and they are not responsible for a situation generated uniquely and exclusively by the administrations, by the Greek and Spanish governments, who did not even inform the people who would benefit or social workers that this situation could happen in the event that the minimum vital income was recognized to them and the collection of that benefit, once recognized, would fall back from their right. Not even the official communications sent to the beneficiaries in each province of our country were equal to those beneficiaries and how they could defend their rights before the administration. Nor did he inform himself in the same way in Lugo as in Pontevedra, or in Ourense as in the Coruña. That when they are called for amounts that swing, I insist, between 3,000 and 5,000 euros to people who receive little more than 400 euros a month, it is a real disincentive. Because these people didn't act fraudulently or contrary to law, they didn't do so illegally, they didn't try to steal from the public era, they don't get a spell that depends on the grace of governments. Economic benefits such as Risk or minimum living income are a minimum income guarantee right for people in poverty and social exclusion, some of them with minors in charge. And they'll say, the majority group and the People's Party will say: that's what the law says, we're doing what the law does, and what you're proposing at the first point is going against the law and it's asking us for little more than we've done. Or they will also say: with the measures promoted by the Galician Union, it is sufficient that these measures are to extend that payment of money due for 30 months, or to transfer up to 50% of the accounts to families with underage dependants. Well, since the BNG we deny the biggest; firstly because it's actually what the law of 2013, but the laws are not the tables of Moses, that's the first. They can therefore be changed, and indeed the Act of Inclusion should have been amended by the Galician Board proposal for months ago. Opportunity to do so, and also an opportunity to drive this reform of the Law of Social Inclusion in an agile way, quickly, in an express manner, we would say, they had, for example, the Law of accompaniment to budgets. In that debate, in which I had the opportunity to act as a voice of the People's Parliamentary Group, I said Popular, how... we are... no. [[Laughter]] I repeat again, in that debate in which I acted as spokesperson for the BNG Parliamentary Group, we told them that they had to act and that they had to have modified and applied those changes within that mechanism in those aspects which had a great deal to do with the situation linked to or derived from the economic crisis of the pandemic. [[Murmurs.]] If that were the case, if you had taken advantage of this absolutely exceptional mechanism and that we constantly criticised in one of the debates, but if you had at that time taken advantage of that accompanying law to make an express reform of the Galician Social Inclusion Act and avoid that supposed collection of those people who were subsequently recognized as being entitled to the minimum living income, we would today certainly be talking about a very different situation. But it's just that in addition to those bonuses provided by the Galician Board, they only arrive at homes with minors in charge, as indicated by 50% for those families with minors in charge, and they're not by far most of the homes that receive Galician social inclusion income, the Risga. Let us remember the three cases that we have betrayed since the BNG in the debate of the inquiry. They remember these three cases that we put in since the BNG, one of them married to return migrants over 65 years of age, who charge 550 euros of Risga a month, who live in a rental housing for which they pay 290 euros, and not so badly pay 290 euros, we'll see what conditions the housing is in, they claim 5,341 euros on the part of the Galician Union. You know how long they'd have to save, save everything, save those 550 euros they charge in the month of Risga. Do you know how long they'd have to save everything they'd get to pay the Administration for money they didn't cheat, they didn't misappropriate, they didn't steal anyone, because it's a situation, I insist, generated by the Administration, that these people aren't responsible for? Do you know how much you'd have to save? How many months? So we're talking about an almost ten-month savings saving the only income they get in that house, I insist, with two people over 65. You don't pay bills, you don't pay rent, you don't almost eat, you don't dress up to return money to the administration you didn't cheat, you didn't steal and to solve a situation you're not responsible for in any case. That's what there is, and we still have to hear the Social Policy Advisor, you will remember me, who complains that we brought this debate from BNG twice. What makes us angry is that we're not talking about it every day in this country, because if you're demanding, I insist, amounts that go beyond 5,000 euros, which we talk about nearly 1 million pesetas, people who come with one hand ahead of the other behind the month. And in that situation that directly puts administrations against the most vulnerable population, that puts all of the administration's machinery against people in the worst economic situation and what we want to talk about today and put a solution to it so that it doesn't happen. In this situation, we have the responsibility of Mr. Junta, the Spanish Government, and we have already said so in the debate of the inquiry. We insist on proposals, in which we have to automatically apply that gateway so that people receiving autonomous incomes will automatically benefit from the minimum vital income, because they meet the conditions. We wouldn't be talking about giving them anything, and of course management becomes self-contained, in our case to the German Government, to make the processing process more efficient. But since the BNG, we've also said it in the interpellation, we think we need to go further by pushing a change in Galician social inclusion law to overcome current risk deficiencies, beyond their incompatibility with minimum income. And there we focus an important part of the proposals. First of all, to provide the Risk by making it complementary with the minimum vital income and walking towards the guarantee of income in a context that is not today what we had in the last century, and so today having a contract of work and a salary doesn't mean that you have enough income to be able to live in decent conditions. So, what we're proposing is to overcome the current tranches that make up Risga to create two different modalities of provision. One, a minimum income of social and labour inclusion addressed to those people who do not have a job, so that it is a guarantee of income, but on the other hand create a supplementary income of income of work directed to those people who, having that employment contract, who have a salary, do not reach the end of the month, cannot guarantee a decent living conditions for their family, their home or themselves. And an element that is central to us and must be addressed in that reform of the Act of Inclusion and which has to do with the guarantee of a basic right, a fundamental right as is the right to housing, which is today the main factor of social exclusion in our country, in addition to becoming an absolutely good destined for speculation. This is not something that this honourable Member or the BNG Parliamentary Group is saying, but someone says it in no way suspicious, I want to think, like Caritas. So we have to create -- that's what we propose -- a supplementary housing allowance, aimed at meeting the housing needs of people who are prescribers of social inclusion income, and ending with an indecency like what is currently happening in our country, which is that in Galicia's Social Inclusion Act, aid for rent complements is said to have to reach 25% of the IPREM, and that today the Galician Union itself, at most, makes them 10 percent or 15 percent of the IPREM in case there are minors in charge. If you comply with the Act of Inclusion, we would talk about €141 a month to pay for the rent, but today the reality is that at most €80 cobras if you have less charge; €80 for a person who has an average rent in our country, €400.450.500 in the cities of Vigo or the Coruña, are absolutely insignificant and unimportant. This is the panorama, we believe that what we have to change, and so we try, at least to open the debate, and with this end, is to change the focus, to change the paradigm about income guarantees, about income guarantees, because they're right, they're not alms, and so what we have to guarantee is a life in conditions worthy of those who need them. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Ortega Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u134	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, as the nationalist spokesperson now well reported, the interpellation of the past plenary today to make this motion with the reply of the advisor, the same as the following, and I quote textually: "Think we have to repeat everything. I'm surprised we're seeing each other again in this Chamber discussing the same thing as a month ago." One month, I say, 30 days, time is relative, and we know it all well in the time of confinement, that some people have spent fast, other people not so fast, because they have had to spend an agony in which the days were not arriving, and they get slower and slower as the date of the end of the month is approaching, because the money does not arrive, because the rent or mortgage eats much of the family income and you have to keep pulling whatever it is until the end of the month and you can charge the next month, and you start again the same spiral. The leaders and the leaders in our country need key skills and attitudes in order to be able to govern Galicia, and more at an unprecedented socio-health crisis in recent history. But the Social Policy Council, like others, requires a sine qua non, and that's sensitivity. Sensitivity in order to be able to optimize management's performance on people's well-being, and it is not to be welcomed that counseling is beginning with a speech complaining that proposals are being made in this Parliament to solve the economic problems of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of families in Galicia. It's not a receipt, it's not fair that the highest social policy leader in Galicia intends to play "eyes that don't see", because, if the German Government continues to be a negationist of the reality that the people live in, there will be no diagnosis, and without diagnosis there will be no solution. And the counselor talked about a month, and I've been talking about more than a year since the minimum vital income gave light to the forepart of one of our welfare feet, along with others like the Dependency Law. It was a help that was born in one of the worst moments of crisis and in a time of record; the counselor complained of what she called patchwork. But they're not patches, Your Honor, they're improvements in the amplitude of the norm to reach more people. How can the highest responsibility for social policies be spoken of in this way? It's just that we don't understand that in a situation of a global pandemic, in an unknown chaos and crisis, unprecedented, this government, the state government apart from the E.R.E. ahead, apart from the very harsh rules, very severe restrictions to safeguard the security of citizenship, created a regulated right in record time. How can it be criticized for changing the way of improvement successively? It's amazing. What the Government of Greece had to do in this regard with the social policy advisor in front of it is to do the same, to modify, as we have already proposed, the Act of inclusion, to work for the improvement of the well-being of people in very harsh times. Exceptional measures, of course, yes, because we don't understand why the negative change, why, why don't they change the law of inclusion?, why hasn't it already been done to facilitate the complementarity of the risk and the minimum vital income? The advisor has been saying that if they want to do it for months, but they don't, because the minimum vital income has had a posteriori change, as is normal in a new standard. And first, what does that have to do with changing autonomous law? And secondly, the autonomous income is the one that has the job to be incompatible with the minimum vital income. So here's the solution to the problem. Thirdly, modifications to the minimum vital income do not undermine the compatibility with which this rule is actually born. So the minimum vital income is born as an opportunity to get to those corners where autonomic incomes like Risga didn't reach, so it's born to be compatible with all of them and optimize forces together. But in Galicia, it is the standard of Galicia that prevents complementarity and, therefore, it is Galicia that has to work and modify the norm itself. Some say one of the best definitions of intelligence is the ability to adapt to changes; let's do it, let's do it one of the most important issues for the reconstruction of Galicia. Besides, this was already known by the German Government from the very first moment, but he did nothing, the Greek Government knew the moment would come when thousands of people would receive a retroactive charge that they would have to claim. The Greek Government knew the tremendous prejudgment that this would cause families in this kind of situation, but it continued all this time playing once again to the eyes that it does not see, acting again as negationists of a situation that heeds the reconstruction so necessary for Galicia. And it was already mentioned here in the past Pleno that other autonomous communities have already made reforms and adapted their autonomous incomes to the minimum vital income, making use of what he was saying, of intelligence in management adapting to change, to express and optimize as much as possible all the resources from which they proceed, such as Aragon, so as to regulate the complementary aragonese provision of vital minimum income, among others. The fact is that in Galicia today, minimum vital income is not being complemented and autonomic regulations have not been changed after more than a year ago when minimum vital income has been created. And instead of getting to work, the council once again shows that this Government is not up to circumstances at a very hard time, criticizing once again the right as the minimum vital income, which in just over a year of life already covers more Greek and Greek than the income of inclusion that has been working for decades. And yet they want to manage the minimum vital income from here, lords of the People's Party. [[Applause]] That, yes, they want to manage the minimum vital income, they say, but with a small mouth, because officially nothing at all, neither by the formally counsellor, nor in Congress by the German MEPs of the People's Party, as would be normal and rigour. Anyway, because the PP says one thing in the media, another in the official channels, another in Galicia and another when they're in Madrid, and so the confidence of the citizenry will be sadly lost in such sensitive matters as this, Your Honor. We are also concerned that the highest responsibility for Social Policy in Galicia does not know the content of the law itself of the minimum vital income in its additional fifth provision, where it specifies textually: "Because of the specificity of the existence of special farms, they will assume the corresponding functions and services", logically referring to the outlying communities of the Basque Country and Navarre, which are not included in the Spanish autonomous financing system. And if the advisor doesn't know about it, she can go where she sent us to the Socialist Group when we ask about the data on residence deaths, Google, because this actually appears on Google, not like the data on residence deaths, that don't show up. [[Applause]] I am concerned that this is really because of ignorance or distorting the truth by the lack of arguments in this debate. But the advisor must apply more work within his competences and less confrontation with the central government, which, I repeat, has already reached more Greek and Greek with the minimum state vital income in a year than the Greek Government with its own income implanted for decades. And even, after decades of working, the Galician income Risga has faults like those marked by the people's valet in its last report, which has already been mentioned here today that it has faults such as where it warns that the Greek Government has allowed embargoes to perceived families of Risga, with a situation of economic vulnerability and being irreparable benefits. And this added to the thousands and thousands of families, as mentioned here in the past Plenary, where the Government of Greece has transformed these families into morbid ones, claiming the undue collection of the minimum vital income, for not changing the law of inclusion at the moment when we proposed it from the Socialist Group and continue to maintain it as a head office, because we do not understand why it is incompatible with Risk with the minimum vital income, which we also share, as the spokesman of the Nationalist Group said, that this debt should be forgiven to these families. And they still comment and dare to ask to manage the minimum vital income, when they are unable to manage autonomous income efficiently and rigorously, when in other autonomous communities the income itself of autonomous inclusion covers 30% of the population in poverty, in Galicia we only reach 6.9 % of Welsh in this situation. What the Greek Government has to do is work more rapidly on issues that really affect people and invest all the resources that minimum vital income is saving on the assumptions of the Greek government in families with underage. Because we have to be aware that in the comparison of the national map we are losing significantly in relation to the rate of child poverty, ladies and gentlemen, and that is something that we cannot afford in the 21st century. So, together with the proposal we made last year to change the inclusion law to allow the complementarity of the minimum vital income, today we insist that the funds that the minimum vital income saves on the autonomous assumptions must be urgently invested in issues such as the fight against child poverty, we do not invisibly see the drama that so many minors are living in Galicia. We also proposed a powerful plan against child poverty in Galicia, because we are aware of the legacy of poverty, and that children who suffer from poverty tomorrow will be adults with fewer possibilities, and so their children and so on in a spiral of injustice, of social inequality that we cannot afford. We break this chain of inequality and work responsibly with the citizenship we represent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Suárez Sarmiento has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u136	Thank you, President; President, in this case. Good afternoon, ladies. With regard to the vote on the legislative texts, I would like to make it clear that the President of the Bureau, the chair of the Bureau at that time occupied by the Vice-President, called on Mrs Rodil and Mr Arangéna this morning -- precisely those who complained about this situation -- to ensure that all Members and Members of their groups were present for the vote on CRTVG. [[Applause]] It seems a lie that at this point you take advantage of yourself or you want to take advantage of a delay in voting to earn time and win a vote of what was not won in polls. [[Applause]] I would like to begin my speech by recalling that this motion lends little or should not lend itself to demagoxies, inaccuracies and political profitability. Because we're talking about very vulnerable people, risk-receiving people who received involuntaryly but improperly two incompatible benefits between themselves. The worst thing is that they have to be held responsible for delays in the government of the state in processing the minimum vital income, and the Union has tried to avoid this prejudice for them from the very first moment. Fifteen months ago, President Feijóo and Social Policy Advisor, thinking of the benefit of the Welsh and the possible beneficiaries of vital minimum income, asked on different occasions and at different meetings with the Spanish Government that were the autonomys that had managed this new aid. To this end, the Autonomous Community of Galicia has made available to the State 30 years of risk management experience, a rotated administrative structure and a clear picture of the social reality of our community. The response of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to this proposal was no. On the basis that there is legally no other option but to claim these accounts, the Union proposed that the Central Government use the path of direct compensation to autonomous communities to avoid this duality and thus protect Galicia's most vulnerable families. But the Sánchez Government's answer was no again. In view of the negatives, the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo has worked to alleviate the consequences of this legal obligation and has devised mechanisms to make life easier for the people affected and has posed two options: Option 1: enable a 30-month period to remedy this duplication. Option 2: To allow the debt to be forgiven up to 50% of the annual Iprim, EUR 3,4000 which is the maximum allowed, in cases of particularly vulnerable families and with minors in charge. As far as the momentum of the reform of the Galician Social Inclusion Act is concerned, the Government of the Union is already working on this regulatory amendment to adapt the law to the current reality and is working closely with the social and professional entities working in the sector. The purpose of the reform is to adapt risk and social inclusion aids to a new context arising from the start-up of the minimum vital income, with the main objective that the processing of these aids be as fast and as agile as possible. Other objectives of the reform are: On the one hand, the creation of programmes and complements that can support people who receive minimum living income in their process of active social inclusion, since in this new provision only basic economic and non-technical support is provided. On the other hand, the redefinition of Risk itself to continue to improve the coverage of those people who for various reasons cannot access the minimum vital income. It should be noted that some of the issues raised by the motion we are debating essentially agree with the current legislation: 1. There is already a rental supplement in the risk bases. And 2. Although there are no two different risks depending on whether the perceptual person is active or unemployed, if it is allowed to support Welsh income with work, and there are tranches that are aimed at promoting employability, these are the so-called insertion steps and transition steps to employment. Another important issue to be taken into account is that in Galicia risk is not extinguished by complying with the requirements for access to vital minimum income, but that only such suspension is given when the actual granting of vital minimum income is confirmed, and where the amount of this last benefit is greater than non-contributory pensions and the one that, in accordance with the applicable legislation in Galicia, would allow for additional risk. At this point, I want to stop to remember that, during the implementation of the vital minimum income, Junta made the decision to maintain the protection of people at risk of exclusion as long as it was necessary, thus covering the State's delay in the processing of the new national benefit announced to bomb and plate, but that there are families in Galicia who have waited months and months to charge and others who are still waiting. Mrs. Rodil, you ask when the Galician Act of Inclusion is going to be amended, and you believe that the Greek Government would like to have a specific date, but you don't have it. And I'm sorry to announce that you won't have it until the state clears the rules of minimum vital income it's final. You'll understand, and the rest of your lordships, and I suppose we'll share, that modify our Act of Inclusion to adapt it to the implementation of the minimum vital income doesn't make sense until it's totally defined by the Government of Spain. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the royal decree passed to regulate the minimum vital income had to be patched up on six occasions and, after 30 extensions, the law is still being negotiated which will definitely approve the benefit. This processing stunt on such a sensitive subject as what we're talking about is what's delaying the updating of Galician law and the rest of the autonomous communities. In any case, if we know that the Board will initiate the processing of this amendment in the third quarter of this year, as the Social Policy Adviser in this House has informed. With regard to the claim of the deployment of an automatic gateway between the Risk and the minimum vital income you propose, I would like to clarify that the Greek Government shares the suitability of the tool, and that is why it asked the Central Government to implement it in Galicia. And you know what the State Government said? Not at all. So yes, Junta has asked for all guarantees for the families affected, since the automatic and immediate transvade of the file you propose can cause economic prejudice to many people, such as families with several children or who receive supplements or sections of the Risk, who would be reduced their supply count if their files were not analyzed individually. Finally, as we all know, since the Board has already formally asked on several occasions to assume the management of the minimum vital income in Galicia, and the response of the Government of the State was not. Mrs. Rodil, you in your speech at the previous plenary session accused the adviser of sliding the bulk into this situation. Look, to make it clear that this is not the case, I'm going to make a brief summary of the measures that have been taken by the Italian Government and the Union in relation to Risk and the minimum vital income. First, to warn several times and at several meetings the central government of the difficulties of the implementation in Galicia of the vital minimum income; to offer the Greek risk platforms to the State for the processing of new state aid; to request direct processing of the minimum vital income from Galicia; to request the coexistence of the two aid while managing the collection of the new state benefit; to request the automatic gateway with guarantees for the perceivers; to propose direct compensation for undue payments between administrations to avoid disturbances to the most vulnerable persons; to maintain the payment of the Risgue while the money of the minimum vital income to the pockets of the Galicians and the Greeks at risk of exclusion; to initiate management for the modification of the Galician Social inclusion Act; to devise mechanisms of return or forgiveness so that 80% of the people who received their aid can fully or partially forgive their reintegration. And now I'm going to give you a summary of what the central government has done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u137	You have to finish, Mrs. Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u138	...this is very short, it's three, not everything. This is negationism, Mrs. Otero, negationism is that of the Central Government, who said not to all the proposals that Galicia has made. [[Applause]] What if I'd like to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u139	You have to finish, Mrs. Suárez. Which I would like... ten seconds. What I would like to make clear before I finish my speech is that I have no doubt that all Members of this Parliament have the same interest: to protect the most vulnerable people in Galicia, that no one is more than anyone in the defence of the rights of people at risk of social exclusion, and that the concern for them is not the property of any political symbol and any ideology. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Suárez. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block, author of the motion, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u141	Thank you, President. I'm going to thank you, Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento, on a previous basis, and it's just that I've solved the question of why we've been waiting here for more than five minutes to be able to vote, and that's that they didn't give them the heads up. We've been solved with doubt. [[Applause]] In fact, we don't want to win here what we didn't win in the polls, by literally quoting his sentence. What we ask is to be all and all careful, knowing the complexity of the whole as well as today. It's hard, I assure you, and I tell you with personal experience, that it's hard to be here discussing such a complex question without eating, right? [[Applause]] I, some questions about the motion, the points and the proposals we bring to the motion, which I, of course, listening to you, and also listening to the advisor, because I don't know whether to take Néstor Rego the proposed reform of the Galician Social Inclusion Act so that it will be through Congress, because, listening to you, it seems to be a competition of the Spanish Government that is incompatible with Risk, the income of Galician social inclusion, with the minimum vital income. We do not here defend Pedro Sánchez, the Government of Spain or the Socialist Party, who has its parliamentary group to defend itself. But I tell you one thing, the Royal Decree 20/2020, which regulates the minimum vital income, which creates it from the beginning, not with successive changes, that I agree with you that many times it has been modified. But in its origin, its original text already provides for its compatibility with autonomous incomes. What's a problem, what's a fish is the incompatibility that's collected in the Galician Risk Social Inclusion Act with others. But that's how it's been since 2013. No one could take the surprise, when the Royal Decree, which creates the minimum vital income, was published in June 2020, that this situation would be given. Who would be surprised? If we all knew about it, and part of it, for example -- because we were voting a year ago -- a part of the campaign that had to do with the processing of Galician social inclusion income was precisely what we had proposals for parliamentary groups, the forces that we are currently represented in the House, to ensure the compatibility and complementarity of the Risk. So, man, now that we're surprised or want to slip the bulk, which is what you've been doing for over a year... I insist on what we said in the interview with the advisor. And now, of course, these blades of dust. But whose back? Of whom you charge only 423 euros on average, which is what you charge for a Risk in Galicia to which you are being claimed by your Government of Galician Union, without eating or drinking it, without any blame, 5,300 euros. And, in addition, here we can open an interpretation of what the Galician Social Inclusion Act sets out. Because what he says is that any type of non-compliance that would involve the return of money that was not properly charged is due to his own allowance once it is renewed. And here's what they're being asked to do is that, without already being perceived by the Risk, because they're perceived by the minimum vital income, they have to pay that debt or that undue charge, as the Galician Board says. There are administrative resources brought in by an important part of these 2,000 persons who are being claimed an undue charge. But what we're asking here since the Galician Nationalist Block is that we don't turn the Administration against our own people and that we're able to make a mistake for ourselves, and that we don't attack the rights of the most vulnerable people in our country. And is it politics? Yes, but we'll say twenty-one thousand times, of course, we're a Parliament. Is that what it is? The football club or a guateque? Actually, if you accuse us of politics, I don't know... in the Lexislative power... because on the couch of my house, you want me to tell you, or on Twitter, no. [[Applause]] Here, here and in the streets. And that doesn't mean taking ownership of anything. Listen, you have every right to bring in how many initiatives they consider appropriate from the People's Party to defend the interests and rights of people who perceive the risk. They have all the legitimacy of the world and 42 seats, which we already want. And finally, just two questions. It's not true, and I said it in my first intervention, it's not true that the situation, as regulated by the Act of Inclusion and Risk, today already exists that supplement of renting or that compatibility with employment income. I insist again on what I said, the inclusion law says that 25% of IPREM will be paid as a rental supplement, and it's only paying between 10% and 15%, 15% in case you have a minor charge. It's being charged and it's so regulated in the decree. I don't lie, in case someone is interested and doesn't believe, article 21.5 of Galicia's Social Inclusion Act. And then risk is only compatible with income from work for six months, and you're going to lose money every month until it disappears at six months. You can have a contract that doesn't come up with a salary to cover the month, and the only thing that makes Junta is to take you away a little, a little, a little, a little, and you can keep working on the most extreme precariousness, that the risk at six months disappears. And that's not guaranteed rights. And we go back and forth -- and with this ending -- the same thing, this is a debate, too, to change the paradigm and change the focus on what income assurance income means, which is not a charity, which is not a gift, which is a fundamental right to guarantee dignified living conditions. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Let us turn to the debate on the second motion. Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Social Policy Council on resources for dependency This motion was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this motion:Additional amendmentAdd to point 2 at the end the following text:"which shall be forwarded to Parliament within a maximum of three months."Additional amendment Add to point 3 at the end the following text:" which shall be forwarded to Parliament within a maximum of three months."Additional amendmentAdd a new point 5 with the following text: "Thus, Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to address the Spanish Government to request it to comply with the financing of 50% of the Dependency Act as established by the applicable legislation."]] To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u143	Thank you, President. It began the past Pleno, the result of our interpellation to improve access to the rights of dependent people, the advisor in his response speaking of the Maslow Pyramid, comparing the needs of people dependent on the upper scales of that pyramid, when it's actually the opposite. What we're talking about is the basic needs of people's lives, that is, of their own base. That's why the representatives here, the representatives of the Greek citizenship, we have the responsibility and duty to give voice to these people, because when the moment of a person's life comes, in which it's difficult to get up, to eat or even sit down, it has no room for others like the claim or the ease of protest that a person can have with their basic needs covered and full faculties. That's why we think this is a fair, necessary debate of all. Because in Galicia a person who asks for his rights through the Dependency Law must wait for more than a year of waiting, or what is the same, more than twice as the law itself says. Because in Galicia that time is multiplying even more if the requested resource is a residential care facility, as it has to pass another filter through the resource allocation program, and in some cases it reaches 550 days, nothing more and nothing less. Unbelievable! Because in Galicia a person who opts for this resource, this very resource, a residence, the most likely thing is that he has to move, as the headlines also indicate, even 150 kilometers from his place of origin, what I call an emotional relocation, because that undoes not only the emotional root, the bond with his place of origin, but also the difficulty of his family visits so important, that due to the restrictions of Covid we know how important they are not only for physical health, but emotional for older people. Because in Galicia we see how the highest responsibility for social policies assumes to greatly increase the value at the cost of their quality, by making many of them by telephone. How can you value a person, I repeat, as I always say, the graphic example of how is to value a person with deaf-blind on the phone? How can you do that? That happened and is happening in Galicia. Why in Galicia did the Government of Feijóo applaud and consent to cuts in State funding, dependence on contributions and payments from those who care for their dependent families? Because in Galicia the mothers with sick children or dependent children were told from the Government of the People's Party that, if they wanted to continue, they would pay them from their pocket, until the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez arrived and recovered the contributions of the people who care for their dependent families. [[Applause]] And I repeat, this debate cannot be just about the dependents and their families. And it's a question that affects the whole of citizenship, and I repeat, by two questions: first, by empathy and, second, because only time decides who will be affected by a similar situation. The fact is that social policies in Galicia have become weak in the pandemic, because we have suspended national media on many key issues to address the reconstruction of the most vulnerable people in Galicia, something that has to be paramount in our country. And, to find out how social services compete with the Government of Greece, it's necessary to see from a broader perspective. And the fact is, in relation to the state average, we're suspending the provision of professionals in basic social services structures, we're suspending the coverage of percentages of potentially dependent population and dependent care. We suspended the coverage of people under the poverty threshold with the Welsh income of reintegration in relation to the rest of income at the state level, and in addition, the benefit count is less than the state average. We're suspended in the number of residential public funding squares for older people; we're suspended in the coverage of home support and telecare services, such important services for people living alone. It is also important to note that we are talking about Galicia, which is one of the oldest autonomous communities in our country. We suspended in residential squares and newspapers and also occupations for people with disabilities. But we also suspended in shelters for women and their children victims of macho violence. In addition, the management of the Government of the People's Party in Wales places Galicia as one of the autonomous communities that least invests in people potentially dependent on all over Spain. The cumulative impact on the state public expenditure of the 2012 Royal People's Party's decree, signed by Rajoy, had a cut of -- repeat -- 6,322 million euros, the €6,322 million dagger, which left the dependency law seriously injured. In addition, the calculation of cuts in economic benefits, most of them, as you know, paid to care for children, parents and mothers who care for their dependent children, or children or children who care for their dependent parents, was 2,175 million euros, at the cost of eliminating the contributions of these caregivers and fulminating or cutting their pay as persons who care for their sick or dependent relatives. But besides, the number of people who would benefit from the total dependent population in Galicia is also one of the lowest in all autonomous communities in Spain. And the most striking thing, which we have already commented on in the past Pleno, is that Galicia, which is one of the oldest autonomous communities, is the last of all Spain as far as requests for the total dependent population. Why do the Greeks and the Greeks give up asking for help for dependency? Why? We need to think about what's going on. What's wrong? From the Socialist Party, therefore, we consider it essential to bet on an increase in staff that solves dependency assessments and files, a significant increase in staff, both on dependency assessment teams and on teams that solve the individual care program, as well as the resource allocation program. In addition, we have to take into account the funds that have reached and will reach Galicia -- I repeat -- some, many of them that affect social policies in Galicia, which is very sad that the Government of Greece does not mention them. In the Covid Fund, 735 million; 235 million for self-help and businesses; 17 million for extraordinary assistance Covid, more than 17 million for the Social Fund; nearly 2 million for dining grants; 7.800,000 for child-poverty care programmes; 45 million for dependency; 10.700,000 for facilitating reconciliation; more than 61 million for vocational training for employment; 167 million for promoting youth employment, so important for reconstruction in Galicia; 169 million for active employment policies. Today, the German Government has more funds than ever, but the uncontrolled power, lords, of the People's Party is useless. We have to put the heads and control of these resources in order to maximize the policies that will determine the state of well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks in the coming years. It's vital and fundamental. We never forget that, in order for the reconstruction of our community to work, it is necessary to connect all areas of government with social policies and health, which are keys to shielding the most vulnerable population and, once this has been done, to continue climbing in the rest of areas. So since last year, we've been asking for an increase in the number of staff on the dependency teams, to avoid the endless waiting lists that prevent most vulnerable people from accessing their rights. In addition, it is necessary for the Social Policy Council to prepare a detailed report on the staffing frameworks of the dependency assessment team, as well as the forecast of the increase of technicians, if that is the case, that they will do so, which is what we are asking for, a significant increase. It is also essential to report on data from file lists without PIA grade resolution in 2019 and compared to 2020, so as to know how the pandemic also influenced. As well as the list of files requested without beginning of the file in SICAP. And the same, too, about the number of pending files in the resource allocation programme for the year 2019 and 2020, all that before the end of 2021. That's our proposal that we hope will be fulfilled. Because the German president always agreed with Mariano Rajoy that the dependency was not viable, and thus he demonstrated it by supporting the cuts that so much damage people have done with dependence, but perhaps, and why not, the pandemic serves as a turning point for Feijó to understand that it is not a matter of a few, but of all people. Today we have health, tomorrow who knows? Anyone may be likely to have a disease, become a dependent person or have a dependent relative with a dependency. That's why it's everyone's business, the future determines who will be touched, now more than ever, there are funds and we have a chance more than ever, with more funds than ever to do something for the most vulnerable people in Galicia and reverse all the cuts that the People's Party has made. It's about justice and it's about time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u144	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u145	Thank you, President. Good day again. We are going to support this proposal from the BNG, we have introduced a number of amendments that we hope will be taken into account. In any case, we will support it in every way and I will explain the meaning of our amendments in this intervention. But I would like to give you a figure that I think in itself should make us think about it. In Galicia in 2020, 693 people died on the dependency waiting list, nine to be rated and the vast majority, 644, waiting for what they call limbo, waiting for access to services or benefits to which they have a recognised right, but to whom they do not have access. That gives 13 people who died in the week in 2020 waiting for something, what they've recognized on paper, but what they have no access to; 13 people a week. This has therefore reduced the waiting list; so that's why of the 2,087 people who came out of that waiting list, from that limbo of the dependency, 22% was for death and not for management of the administration. And I open a parenthesis: we're in a year marked irremediably by the pandemic. But if you take the reports from the previous years 2019 and 2018, you'll see that there are a lot of people, hundreds of people who die every year with a law-recognizable right, also recognized in the processing process, but not given access to them. And indeed, years ago, things were much worse, much worse. In 2014, without going further, on that waiting list there were 30,000 people, but the reality is that today there are 5,000, more than 5,000 people still waiting for those recognized rights on paper but those that are not allowed to access them. That should mean everything to be said that this debate focuses on how to end this situation, on what measures to put on the table so that this does not happen, because it is a violation of fundamental rights, as fundamental rights as are social rights that guarantee a decent life for dependent people. In Galicia there are almost, I insist, 5,000 people waiting, waiting for what, we can ask ourselves. What are your rights waiting for? Right to what, they'll be wondering, too. Right to a square in a public residence, right to a square in a center of the day, right to the Home Help Service, or personal assistance, right to a library for care, etc., which are fundamental services to ensure decent living conditions for dependent people. In the BNG we insist very much that they are not numbers besides, as we said in the previous debate, they are not figures, they are not statistics, they are meat and bone persons with names and surnames that are denied rights and cannot be measured by weight. They can't measure weight, because they're, in addition, dependents and families who have to look for life in the face of these delays, in the face of these failures and the absence of administration. Because questions must be asked: Who cares when there is no public service? Who assumes the absence of the Administration and, therefore, the intergenerational solidarity of which we speak now through the public service network? I also tell them, usually families, fundamental, almost exclusively, women, who, in addition to working outside the house, go through the door and keep working to guarantee minimal care and attention to a person who can't, because it depends on someone else to do activities as basic as getting up, sitting down, eating and can have a day of, because I don't know, watching TV or playing the tutor if you can. I insist, they're not people, they're meat and bone people, they're people with names and surnames, not numbers, not figures and not statistics. And today we bring several specific cases also to see what this situation is. Neighbor of Compostela who, in addition, told us last week, because here is a huge problem with the SAF in the Town Hall of Santiago. Dependency is a case-by-case scandal, they were telling us. I quote, I open quotes literally: "We haven't had eight months without news since we applied for grade 2 review, two years after asking for grade 1 and having granted it, today we don't have any help or charge. We'll charge the correspondent in July. The same is true of the grade 2 revision. Six months without knowing anything. The amounts of the bookkeeping are insulting, 240 euros, when two hours of private assistance charges 670. Obviously, there is abuse at the prices of the approved companies because they know we receive help from the dependency. It costs more than two hours of assistance to my father's pension, there's nowhere to take this." I close the candles. I insist, who cares, who takes care of himself while guaranteeing rights to the absence of the administration? And this particular case of this neighbour of Santiago can be found referred to in the report of the valet that was just discussed this morning here, page 237. In September 2020 -- and I literally quote the report of the valet, date of that report to which it refers -- in the Coruña and Ferrol were solving requests in priority of the dependencies, with no priority of November 2019, ten months later. In Santiago, February 2019, a year and seven months later. In Lugo, August 2019, a year and a month later. In Ourense, in June 2020, three months later -- these are the only people who comply with the law --. In Pontevedra, October 2018, 2020; October 2018, 23 months later. In Vigo, November 2018, 22 months later. I tell them because they know, but for the record, that the Dependency Act of 2016, 2006, excuse me, sets a maximum period of three months in order to be evaluated and incorporated into the dependency aid system. Delays affect not only all ratings but also standards, that is, those that have no reason to give priority according to current regulations. Before the pandemic, he also mentions the valet, before the pandemic, the staff who were hired for the reinforcement of the EVOs of disability in Lugo, Ourense and Ferrol was a person, a person. One! For Compostela two, just like in the Coruña, and where they did reinforce themselves a little more were those that had been waiting for more than a year ago, almost two years in the case of Vigo. That's the same answer that was given to our group through written response from the Administration. What you can't do is try to solve a problem from a waiting list for almost a year by hiring a single staff to take care of the entire province, such as the province of Lugo which, to make itself an image of what it represents, is more than the entire Principality of Asturias, in case someone is still a little undisplaced. We are going -- I insist -- to support the PSOE motion, it is in line with initiatives that we have also put forward from our group in Parliament, to demand that increase of the staff that integrates the evaluation teams and the IAP resolutions, and also to give greater transparency to the dependency system in Galicia, which basically proposes points 2 to 4 of this motion through the publication of these reports. The amendment we tabled is to set a more specific deadline, if the spokesman for the Socialist Party has to accept it, which is that these reports are sent to the Galician Parliament within a maximum of three months. And finally, I wanted to make a general reflection. Social rights are fundamental rights, and what is left pending -- just like education, the right to education or the right to health -- is still pending to unlock that public service network that is known as the state of well-being. Land it in the reality of the people and you have guaranteed, not only formally on the paper, that you are entitled to a home attendance or a personal assistant if you are a dependent person, a person with disabilities, but actually and effectively that public service reaches all the people who need it, who arrive in time and who arrive in shape. Because it takes one year or more the ratings, the recognitions and access to services in that limbo which is the pair of those dependent people, which is supposed to be a violation of those rights. And they also feel many of them abandoned by the administration itself. I read once to the judge, who I'm sure you know, Paz Filgueira, when I was a judge of that particular male violence trial, speaking of equality and fighting against gender-based violence, he said, "Rights cost money." And indeed, rights cost money and there administrations have to put at least what the law requires them to do. And there you have to remember, that is the other amendment of addition that we have tabled from the BNG, to the Government of Spain that has to put 50% of the cost of the Dependency Act. That has been the case since 2006, and it has never, ever since the entry into force and the approval of that law has been fulfilled. And there they have both responsibility, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We expect it to be met, not with BNG, not with the Galician Parliament, but with dependents and people with disabilities, who can't be waiting for 23 months to be able to access resources to those who have legal rights. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u147	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Ladies and gentlemen who preceded me in the use of the word, the most vulnerable, those who claim to defend themselves when they are dressed up as progressiveists, when they give a press round, or even sometimes they intervene here, they are the most ignored when you, when you both have the option to rule. And I put them in the same bag and I say them both because on many occasions and in many institutions they keep each other up and down. I listened carefully to them, Mrs. Ortega and Mrs. Rodil, to see if she had anything new in her speech. And no, it's the same speech as ever. And although their arguments seem to defend the Greeks, the truth is that with their facts in this House they are betraying them immediately. Look, I'll give you an example quickly. Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks, we have been the great ones ignored in the state's last general budgets. In spite of all those figures that you have reported to us today, Mrs Ortega, the truth is that they have punished the citizens of Greece without mercy, but with greater hardness, ladies and gentlemen, those who are now suffering from a situation of vulnerability, as well as the older and the dependent people we are talking about today. And I didn't see her protesting to you. Look, in contrast to this situation, I can say, and with satisfaction, that if there are rulers who know the reality of the people and who work to meet their needs. The Union has approved the largest budgets in Galicia's history, budgets that are being reflected in all areas and sectors of our country. But if we talk about social services, ladies and gentlemen, the budgets have increased by 15.3% compared to 2020 and by 90% more than 2009. A very significant data if they wanted to make a good reading of it. That's why my group won't admit, Mrs. Ortega, that I say the German Government doesn't bet on people's rights, because either they dance the numbers or they're deliberately missing the truth. Look, social policies in this country have been growing in intensity year after year since the citizens of Greece made them abandon you, on the first occasion they had, that coalition government that they had to suffer for four long years. They're asking to increase the personnel of the dependency rating teams today. So far I thought we had a broad consensus on this. But I'd really like to know where they were when the social policy advisor was talking from this atrium the other day, because he gave an answer, Mrs Ortega, to the four questions that you asked him about. Are you going to strengthen the staff of the rating teams for the dependency? It's the context of one round and round. But it was over there. He's explained to you by the kid that consists of the dependency shock plan, which you're so worried about. A plan that the Union has already designed and will start without having to wait for you to present this initiative which, to vary, comes late and the trailer of its own action by the Government of the Union, which has already taken this decision and is implementing it. And you know why you're so worried about the dependency shock plan? Not by the content of the plan, which I suppose you won't dare disagree because you know it's beneficial for citizens. You are so worried because it will respond to demands and to the margin of improvement that currently exists for some people who have to apply for dependency. And when the People's Party provides solutions, you end up with demagogy in this sense, demagogy that leads to the extreme, gives you eight as much as 80 and they think only and exclusively of party key and electoral key. Mrs. Ortega, look, the law of dependence in our country is the result of a great political consensus. Put this in your head and don't twist the story in your own way. A consensus in which the main actors were their party and my party and which continues to be essential to bring out the important issues of this country forward, and a consensus that citizens are demanding from us every day. Look, the law provided for, on one side, universal law and, on the other, that would be funded 50% between the autonomous communities and the state government. And they know they're not doing their part, Mrs Ortega, because the central government -- that you're saying and you haven't arrived yesterday -- they've had enough time to change what didn't seem right to them or what they criticized at another time. But they're in other things. And, Mrs. Rodil, Mr. Sánchez today is president thanks to the crucial vote of the Nationalist Block in Wales, thanks to the support of his group. Something you'll have to say about this, too. Look, Mr. Sánchez's investment program is seeking to improve the funding of the dependency-care system to reduce waiting lists. That's right, you don't know what year. Because that promise goes on in a box three years later, at least with our community, because the government continues to bear 80% of the cost of dependency. Out of the 400 million a year spent in Galicia on providing this service, 100 million will be posted by the state and the remaining 300 million will be taken into account by the autonomous community. So, I think it is quite clear that who cares in this country for the biggest and dependents is the Union of Galicia. And I repeat it, the counties make it irrefutable, who takes care of the biggest and dependents in our country is the Government of the Union of Galicia. And we're going to continue to look after them with the crash plan set up in dependence. We're not going to wait for you to comply with the law and the funding, and we're not going to wait for initiatives like this, where you're asking to do what the Government of the Union has announced weeks ago. We're the useful policy party and the shock plan is already underway, which is why I'm telling you that your motion makes no sense today, a shock plan that will entail important improvements in the care of older people and dependents. We'll be able to eliminate bureaucracy. He'll come up with a request and a medical report and a social report. We'll cut the waiting times to half, merge the grade and PIA applications. We will create new valuation centres, teams of roaming valuers, a measure that has already been applied in Ourense, my province, and which is achieving excellent results. We will optimize the home valuer routes, improve the appointment management and launch new rating teams, as announced by the advisor in the past plenary session. And they will also start up preferred pathways for people who are suffering from certain illnesses, the same as those who suffer from ELA, that their applications are processed in less than a month. This group and this government, ladies and gentlemen, speak with facts and the rest is speech. Look, you're asking that the Board prepare three reports and the Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs. Rodil said, until it puts an end to the government for them to be delivered. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions taken in this government are not improvised, based on rigour, not how they are doing in other governments or other political forces. You're very much to ask for studies when you're in the opposition, studies that then none or twist as you consider; but when you're asked to govern, you're not studying, you don't report, you don't value the repercussions that your decisions have. Look, things don't work this way, as much as you're trying to say otherwise. The citizenry knows that and a year ago he again trusted this president and this party to keep working for and for Galicia. Of course, who you can't trust is either you or anyone else. And I'm going to tell you why, because citizens also have the right to know. Look, it's at 6:00 today. They call on the Government to expand the unit assessment teams, but four hours ago in this same plenary room, in the vote on the reactivation commission's ruling, they made themselves uncoherent and absurd are their facts, that at the bottom of the consensus that the vote was put to the vote, a block that asked for a separate vote and where specific resources would be needed to enhance the programme of reinforcement of the disability assessment teams, the Nationalist Block of Wales voted against and the Socialist Party did not support it either. This is your coherence and what matters to you people with disabilities and older people in Galicia. [[Applause]] They're interested in zero, ladies and gentlemen. They voted against a beneficial measure for the neighbours and neighbours of Galicia, because, instead of thinking about the Greeks, they think uniquely and exclusively in their own interests. And you spoke, Mrs. Ortega, today's responsibility. If you're the most incoherent and most irresponsible we could have as opposition parties in Galicia; they're not theirs and the citizens and their problems matter to them, neither here nor in Madrid, but they wouldn't have voted as they voted this morning. You now have a replica shift, Mrs. Ortega. I'm convinced that, despite everything I've told you, you're going to paint me again a clumsy panorama and you're going to continue with the fear that nothing is being done here. Moreover, he will even be able to justify his vote against the interests of the Greeks this morning. But in order to avoid the buzz, I would recommend that you update the data you handle in relation to dependent people in our community. Look, I've got more slides, but I'm going to show you just one, 'cause I'm running out of time. Look, it's a slide of the Second Vice-Presidentship of the Government, nothing suspicious of being the People's Party, and I really don't find that suspension that gives us Galicia. Look, here's Galicia, here's the national half. Galicia is the fourth community with fewer people pending to receive dependency benefit at the moment. We're 11 points below the national average. By the way, in the mirror of Asturias, as Mr. Caballero said these days ago, that he had to look at himself in matters of social welfare; I don't know if it's good that we look at ourselves in matters of dependence, Mrs. Ortega. Here's Asturias. The Asturias waiting list, where your spokesperson wants to be reflected, duplicates the Galician one. They shot without knowing where, gentlemen. You shoot and miss the truth as it happens. It pains me and I find it incomprehensible that a spokesperson who a year ago has presented himself as an alternative to government in this country despises theirs, even better, and puts in value the one of the neighbours. Look, of course everything is better, that there's a lot left to do and I humbly tell you. I also tell you that this government will continue to work and put in place mechanisms that will enable 100% of the population to be cared for. But, look, in front of the chateau and the demagogy, this bench on the right is backed up by arguments, and what's more important, Your Honor, this bench is backed by facts, because that's how you have to work, with facts and not with advice that then still above...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u149	...they don't apply them when they have a chance to do it. You guys showed up this morning and they're going to put on now. They're late for a proposal that the Galician Union is already implementing. Look, in Galicia he's been working, working and working more and more and more to get more services for all the Greeks, but especially for all those older people and dependent people who gave everything to us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez López. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u151	Thank you, President. Madam representative of the People's Party, I wonder what you were saying you didn't see us protesting, where were you? Where was your protest, that of the People's Party, when the People's Party at the state level signed the Royal Decree 2012 which assumed a cut of 6,322 million euros? Where were you? Where were they? That's the question, because you know perfectly well or should know that this was the beginning of the so-called Dependency Law, and I assumed an unprecedented cut in the state and also, of course, to Galicia. And besides, in the most vulnerable families, in the people who care for families who have a dependency, mothers and parents who care for their children or children with a dependency. That was the bloodiest cut in the dependency. How did the song say, "Where were they then when I needed you so much?" That's the question you didn't solve here, by the way. Relax, he says, we're worried, of course. Because after what I've just told you, that they've perpetuated that unprecedented cut in the so-called Dependency Law and now come here saying the opposite, twisting reality and pretending to get votes, that they have most in Galicia, I don't know at the cost of that. If it's at the expense of lying, I'd rather be the way we are from the Socialist Party. Relax, because the plan, we're restless because the plan is supposed to take advantage of the download of the additional waiting list by the effect of Covid; and restless if the plan means, as the Director General and the advisor himself said in the pilot project in Ourense province, changing the location of the workers and not increasing them. [[Applause]] That is what we are concerned about, so we ask for the detailed report of the workers today and of those who are going to increase, to see if it is true and we get the information and we are better fortunate than with cases of deaths by each residential centre, which we request in this Parliament for all possible regulatory ways and we have not been given the information, which we were sent to Google by the advisor, the ultimate social policy officer in this country. Shame on you in this matter, when we talk about such sensitive things. And, by the way, in addition to what Mrs. Rodil said about the people who have died waiting for their rights, it is necessary to add in this context, in the context of Covid, that they have influenced the data derived from Covid, and it is not a fact that I say, or that Mrs. Rodil says, but a fact that is commented on and specified in the state association of directors and managers of social services. And that, by the way, you said the suspension, all the suspensions I've reported, if you don't know, you can read the report, are detailed in the report, in the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services itself. Get in touch, get in touch. And in that report they indicate that the waiting list goes down because of Covid, the waiting list goes down because of Covid. They indicate that we do not want to cheat on this issue and we believe that all political parties must act sincerely on this issue, and they are not being. What we don't want is for the People's Party to cheat on this issue and if you want to get that data, that data that the observatory itself says, and that even detailed in the previous intervention, which indicates that it's because of Covid; and what we don't want is that by the plan itself and the management it's selling to the Council of Galicia if you want to get that data, because the report itself makes it clear that it's not for any measure of this Government, this Government of the People's Party, and that's what we want you to know. And today is also the day 13, it's the same number that Galicia occupies at the ranking across Spain as one of the worst stopped autonomous communities in relation to the management of social services. What do you assume, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? What do they assume? [[Applause]] The statement of what he was talking about, from the observatory of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services brought the truth to light, as to what you complain, to the state contribution of dependence, and I am not tired of repeating it, and I quote textually: "The amounts of the General Government of the State were reduced in July 2012 by Royal Decree 2012 and remained frozen until the end of the year 2017." I repeat, who ruled between 2012 and 2017 in the Government of Spain, lords of the People's Party? This is the past under the People's Party brand, and the present is described in the same objective statement where it is recognized that the plan of the current Government of Spain, the Socialist Party, reverses the cuts into dependence. Even so, they predict that with the resources that the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez increases if you can delete the waiting list, the waiting list in 11 autonomous communities and reduce it considerably in the rest; this is not what I say, the report says. In addition to the first things the Socialist Government has done, and I repeat, because it is a very bloody thing that has affected many vulnerable people, it was the recovery of the contributions of those who care for relatives dependent on which the People's Party eliminated the pair that cut the pay of them. And the first thing the Socialist Government did was get that fair quote back...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u152	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u153	... a second, please -- it's very hard to work and rebuild a state of well-being tower as it was to pass this very important law, when a kick fell through the real decree I told you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not all political, you can't get redid by twisting reality and deceiving citizenship, because it's regrettable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u154	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u155	Give me one more minute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u156	But look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u157	The People's Party representative did...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u158	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u159	One minute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u160	That of time... I already know that everyone wants the time for it, but time is for everyone, and we have to share it. Look at the watch, and about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u161	Just a question and I'll finish?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u162	Go ahead, please, if you have something to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u163	It's a matter of collation, which says that I'm the useful political party and that I'm telling the party's leader, Pablo Casado, who maneuvered against the funds requested by the Government of Spain against citizenship, which is totally regrettable with what is falling in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u164	It's over. About the amendment, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u165	We don't accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u166	Thank you. Motion by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mr RamónFernández Alfonzo, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the loss of industrial activity and employment There has been a self-amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Member, Martín Seco García, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion:Additional amendment:In the resolution of the initiative a new point 3 should be added, which will have the following content:"3. The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to sign the action protocols for the elaboration of the Conventions for The Bridges and Meirama as soon as possible."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this motion:Additional amendmentAdd two new points, which would become 3 and 4, with the following text:"3. Urgently solve the industrial floor deficit in the city hall of the Bridges.4. To achieve that the period of guarantee of employment and suspension of transfers ended last June 30, if it is extended as long as the staff concerned cannot be repositioned in decommissioning work, or in reactivation projects that are driven in the village of the Bridges."]] To formulate the motion, Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u167	Good afternoon. Last year and a half, Endesa announced the closure of the bridge thermal power plant and set date to it on June 30, 2021. On July 7th, the staff affected by this closure, workers and workers from Endesa and the assistants started a camp in front of the Council of Bridges, denouncing that they are beginning to arrive at letters of transfer and letters of dismissal, denouncing that year and a half after the announcement of the closure of neither the Spanish Government nor the German Government has a plan or no plans, nothing prepared to deal with this situation. There's the big lie of the so-called energy transition. It's so obvious the lack of foresight, commitment and responsibility of governments, it's of such a glaring calibre, that lately they don't know what to say and chose both PP and PSOE to do as well as the ostriches, put their heads under the earth as they want to disappear. And it's no less, because they've actually been missing for years and a half. That's how neither President Fexoo nor the Energy Transition and Industry Ministers respond to requests for meetings sent from The Bridges, nor do they respond. We, from the BNG, have today brought the debate a number of proposals aimed at meeting the most urgent needs of the staff affected by the closure of the thermal in the village of the Bridges. They are proposals addressed to the Galician Union, feasible proposals within the framework of their exclusive competences, which could solve or mitigate this first impact that will be suffered by the workers and workers of Endesa and the assistants. The first: mediate before Endesa to extend the period of guarantee of employment and suspension of transfers. This is crucial in order to be able to talk about a fair transition, equipping staff with protection, social umbrellas, which must necessarily last as long as they delay to start or either the decommissioning work of the power plant or the activity of the new industrial projects that are installed in the Bridges. Endesa has agreed with the unions a guarantee period for the staff affected until 30 June, taking into account their own calculations, in view of their intention to carry out administrative procedures for closing the power plant by simplified means. But the Council of the Bridges and the Council of Galicia made allegations against this intention of Endesa, claiming that the proceedings should be carried out on an ordinary and unsimplified basis, mainly because so the proceedings would be more guaranteed. By the way, some allegations he presented in Endesa's closure at the Bridges but not in Naturgy's case in Meirama. We are not going to criticize those allegations because we agree that the proceedings must be carried out in the most secure way for the people and for the village of the Bridges. And the ministry also agrees, insofar as it has accepted the allegations and has determined that the administrative procedure must indeed be the ordinary one. Council, Together and Ministry, therefore, agree, so the administrative procedure for the closure of the thermal will be extended more than in principle Endesa intended. And this under no circumstances can result in a deterioration of the staff situation, it cannot result in a prejudice to the people and to the village of Pontes. This extension of administrative deadlines must be accompanied by an extension of staff protection periods, if not, what does it mean? Well, this must be the first concern of the Government of the Union and, in order to achieve this goal, it can collect the support of the municipality, the state government and trade unions, and how many others are needed, but, we insist, it must be their priority as the Government of Greece. Secondly, the establishment of an emergency fund for the right transition to the Bridges. A fund to meet the economic needs of implementing two plans: one for training and one for early retirement for older staff. A training plan that begins with the design of training itineraries based on the expected demand for professional profiles and, above all, involving wages and high levels in social security during the duration of training, thus ensuring not only the future employability of staff, but also avoiding ponds of employment and contribution. And an early retirement plan for the staff affected by the closure of the thermal, a plan that must be agreed with the bridge unions and that guarantees at least one retirement from the age of 60, a plan that guarantees a vital solution for older people with greater difficulty in using it. Extension of guarantees and establishment of a fund for the fair transition to the Bridges. These two issues are urgent to provide protection for the affected, to minimize the first impact of closure. We know that these measures will not prevent by themselves the crisis and the decline in the village of the Bridges. We know that this is about other deeper, more ambitious and more planned measures, but today's situation in the village requires urgent proposals and solutions. In the same way that it is urgent to provide the Town Hall with the necessary industrial floor to install new industries and companies, and in any case this appropriation is in the hands of the Union, it depends exclusively on the Union. This is the third question we bring to your attention today. And lastly, fourthly, we bring back the debate to this Parliament a proposal that can have immediate effects, but also in the long term: the establishment of an R & D+i centre for energy storage. It can have short-term effects because Union does not depend on anyone to make this decision and immediately start its execution. In fact, Junta might already be working on this if she had ever accepted the proposals we made since BNG. Because this is an already known proposal, already debated, which has been rejected on several occasions by the People's Party. We insist, because their impact could be radical in the economy and in the industrial reactivation of the village of the Bridges, in the region and also in the country as a whole. Today everyone is betting on renewable energies, and everyone knows that the success of this strategic bet on this model change rests on the ability we have to store and manage this energy, which in the case of those who are called to be majority, such as wind, photovoltaic and even hydraulic, is an all-in-one technological challenge. Store and manage an energy that, by its nature, is not always available. In the Spanish State, Euskadi and Catalonia have already launched projects in this direction, without research centres designed to meet this challenge, this need. They are determined to put themselves in the forefront of an aspect that, both from the European Union and from the state government itself through the strategy marked in the ministry, they have defined as strategic, making a finger on a question that should be a priority for us, the ability to generate synergies with industry and attract investments and new companies. Just what we need for the Bridges. Repaciten. Establishing an R+D+i center for energy storage is within its competences and capabilities. And most importantly, it brings together all the conditions to be a priority bet of the Government of Greece, because it would mean a bet on the economy of knowledge and innovation, and it would have an effect of attracting new industries and companies in the energy sector to renewables. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, insisting that it is the responsibility of the Government of Galicia, the Council of Galicia, to address the problem of the people working in Endesa and the assistants, to address the problem of the village of the Bridges. A study by the University of Coruña figures in more than 1,400 jobs that are at risk. The escapist attitudes of state and German governments are not tolerable. The closing process has been announced for more than a year and a half, time left to take action and shorten problems. The BNG has always demonstrated a constructive position on the bridge situation; always in all debates we approach our proposals, some more strategic, others, such as those we bring today, with more immediate effects: extension of guarantees, emergency fund for training and retirement plan, industrial floor and the establishment of a technology centre that can be used to attract other industrial projects related to the energy sector. All these proposals, these measures are within the scope of the competences of the Union and within their possibilities. We call them to abandon the sectarian positions and propaganda that are driving many people and the village of the Bridges to a point of no return. They care for their responsibilities. Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u168	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u169	Thank you, President. Immersed as we are in a crisis of strong silence derived from the coronavirus, but in which previously the district of Ferrolterra was immersed, Galicia would need to count on a government in the Union she wanted, which knew better where she wanted to take our country; that she had a clear project of which are the actions that the Administration has to push to get out stronger than this crisis, that it did not have to improvise before a recovery plan of the European Union arrived, and we had the plans clear and mature to opt for the millionaire funds that can come from Europe and that they act fairly and carefully with the rest of the administrations, both the locals and the State administration. But the German Government finds it more comfortable to face up and to observe what they do or stop doing other administrations. It is almost offensive to see these days the representatives of the People's Party and the Government of Galicia commenting on what happens in Alcoa, what happens in Alu Iberiana, what happens in Barreras, in Vulcano, in Xeal, etc., as if they were the commentators of a media that broadcasts a football party from Eurocopa, as if the problems of the country were not with you and as if the competences in industrial matters were not from Mr. Conde and Mr. Junta de Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the citizenship of Galicia and in particular that of the Bridges do not deserve them to give up their powers, but unless they try to block the efforts they want to make others. Sign and unlock the action protocol for the development of the transition agreements for the Bridges and Meirama. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you, like the whole population, knew that the energy transition was under way, that coal plants would stop operating on this fuel, that the companies that own these plants could decide to stop at any time by the high costs of CO2 and the bad corporate image that this kind of technology gave them at a time of strong social commitment to the environment and the fight against climate change. Stop looking for culprits and work on solutions. We need to know where each one is right now and that he's willing to put on the table to make this energy transition fair to the workers and affected communities, gentlemen of the People's Party. What have you done in these 12 years of Mr. Feijóo's government and in the 7 years of Mariano Rajoy's government in the state? What were the alternatives and the projects that have been carried out to act in these regions with this announced energy transition? What are the projects and actions that have matured the German Government since its competences in industrial matters? Nothing, gentlemen of the People's Party. They're mere spectators of what happens around them while Galicia annoys industrially. In this situation they can't go on, the districts of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal can't go on anymore. We need solutions and alternatives to Endesa's closure. There are millions of possibilities with the state's funds available and the Union should be pushing for projects that this county needs. But where are these projects, gentlemen of the People's Party? The image of this incapacity is seen as a result of the biofuel project. The board wasn't even in the project, until suddenly it appeared just the day before the Transition Bureau of the Bridges to tell Endesa what to do and how and what to invest, and to the Government of the State what to put in premiums to the megawatt, and without giving anything at all to that project. Of course, this joint smoke bomb met with Endesa's refusal and the state's response that these premiums no longer exist. Where is the solution of the Galician Union, gentlemen of the People's Party? Do you have an operator running the project? Will they set up some kind of society to be able to develop this project that they put on the table? Do you have any plans for that? Or was it just a new smoke bomb to try to attack other administrations? Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, from the state they put on top of the table support lines for employment-generating business projects, in small investment projects of fair transition zones worth EUR 30 million, including The Bridges and the Cerceda. Another line was set up to create sustainable employment and promote economic activity in the municipalities affected by the closure of coal power plants worth EUR 7 million. They carried out the priority of these areas in the call for aid to renewable energy projects, with aid of 8.4 million for the installation of renewables and another 12 million for electrical installations. They presented a package of specific measures for the right transition areas within the European Union's recovery, transformation and resilience plan worth EUR 300 million. The Production Investment Support Fund is under way, a fund which enables companies to achieve up to 75 % investment in their projects, a programme which enables them to finance the creation of industrial establishments or the transfer of factories, improvements or changes in production and process lines, the connected industry 4.0 and environmental sustainability. This is an initiative that replaces what was previously the Reindus Program and which over the past two years has reached 20 million euros for 13 Greek projects. In the renewable hydrogen roadmap, special interest was granted to the just transition zones and proposals were received from both the Bridges and Meirama. And while, gentlemen of the People's Party, what did the Government of Galicia do? What was the investment for the Government of Nuñez Feijóo to these districts? What are the projects Feijóo has for these comarcas? Do you want me to tell you, gentlemen of the People's Party? Nothing at all, zero shredder, no weight, no project, absolutely nothing but propaganda. It is not too late, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to activate their powers in the field of economic and industrial promotion, so that there are projects that can go to the funds that the State and Europe are putting into these districts. Search for investors, business solvent projects, develop a business plan so that in the Bridges there is a clear commitment to the continuity and activity of employment in this area. And, which is essential, they stop blocking the future of the Bridges by signing the protocol for the elaboration of the Bridge and Meirama Conventions. A call that was opened until July 6th for the presentation of projects, in which social and economic agents were encouraged to approach initiatives and projects that help create a new sustainable economic fabric in environmental, economic and employment terms. A process of participation that met the demands set out in the course of the V Bridge Transition Bureau, which was held on June 2, where the process of drawing up the fair transition agreement was requested to identify the possibilities offered by the territory to generate a replacement economic activity in the face of the cessation of the thermal power plant's activity. It is necessary for the Galician Union to address as soon as possible the signing of the action protocols for the elaboration of the Bridges and Meirama conventions, documents that gather the express commitment that the different administrations acquire to carry out a joint work in the elaboration of the just transition agreements, and that has already been subscribed by all autonomous governments with energy transition councils, such as Andalusia, Asturias, Castile-A Mancha, Castile and León and the Basque Country; and, as you will know, there are many that are governed by the People's Party. This is a necessary step for municipalities to have access to fair European, national transitional aid and component 10 of the Transformation and Resilience Recovery Fund, which is provided with EUR 300 million for the next three years. This amount will strengthen the Right Transition Fund, which can also benefit affected areas in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, after seeing the dictates of the Committee on Reactivation voted today, where there is no longer a single measure that can be taken from the Council of Galicia to help our industrial sector, after not observing any projects in the Bridges that can go to the next Generation funds, or that at least you put on the table, we urge them to get to work on this subject. From the Socialist Party we will vote in favour of this motion in the search for solutions for the workers of the auxiliaries, who are most affected by the situation in this region. And we ask the BNG to accept our amendment so that the Board will sign this necessary protocol, so we can act in a region that needs it to be eaten. We therefore hope that this amendment will be accepted, that the People's Party from the Government of Unity will once do its duties and, at least, let the rest of the forces, the rest of the administrations work to put this protocol and the fair transition agreement into operation, and that they will do their duties, which is to activate industrial activity and economic promotion. That's his function and not just looking at what he does or stops doing the Government of the State. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u170	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. I was now saying when I went down, by joke, that I had lost the guidance of the Socialist Party. But, look, I'm making clear the political legitimacy to present this initiative or any other on the part of the Bloc or the Socialist Party, it's also true that you bring here today this initiative to wash your conscience and to wash your face, Mr. Alfonzo. Because what they have is ashamed of the behaviour of the Galego Nationalist Block all this time, especially in relation to the Bridges, in relation to the Comarca, in relation to Ferrolterra and in relation to the problems that exist and that persist in Ferrolterra and of what you always said you would make us an escapist attitude of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. If ours is a runaway, hers won't tell her how she is, hers from the block, I mean, not personal. Because, look, you continue to appreciate more from time to time the seats that allow you to keep the Socialist Party in the Town Councils or in the Deputies than to bet on the definitive solutions to the problems. They don't dare call things by name, they don't dare because they're afraid of the reaction of the Socialist Party. And so the block is at the source of the problem too, it's at the source of the problem, because when the problem started you looked somewhere else. They looked the other way because they were interested. You've supported the closure in that wrong attitude of ecoloxism, just as some minister now says, and also the Socialist Party, which needs to eat less meat. We don't talk about these subjects. And from this point of view when we were talking about the fact that the Bridges would shut down, neither did they like to speak in this Parliament, they were looking elsewhere. I don't get involved in that matter, it won't be that I'm going out of my way. And now that we have the problem on the table, they come here as you are the solution to all the problems. No, you're part of the problem, because from the beginning they knew what was going to happen. You were talking about a university study. Right, Mr., former President González Laxe and three more, one of the Bridges, but did you catch us by surprise? When you were supporting and were behind the sign, the one that said: Out of the coal, what did you think would happen when the coal was out? And nothing was going to happen? Or it was to stay well, off the coal and then, when you close the power station and everyone goes to the street, now we want them to be adversely affected. Is that the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block to the situation of industry in Ferrolterra? Well, it's not ours. It's not ours, we don't agree, I'm sorry. Of course, it's nothing like the People's Party. You are now asked on this initiative for all the solutions to the Galician Union, which, by the way, is the only administration that has not moved from the beginning of its position. The Block, participating in the Town Hall of Bridges with its Town Hall in Industry, at first were also, but, like the Town Hall, it changed its mind. You'll know, talk to your constable about why Endesa is able to convince the Council, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also the Block, to change her mind. From the beginning we said that we couldn't make a fair transition if we were to face the closure of the power plant in as immediate a manner as it was intended. It was impossible to make a fair transition, because, the difference of Cerceda, Mr. Seco, in the Bridges the company was working to continue producing for years. In Cerceda, the company said it didn't want to go on. That's why there were no allegations between the Town Hall and the Galician Union, but you talk like you left there. I don't know if it was you or Mr. Alfonzo, I don't remember, it was you. Forgive me, Mr. Dry, for giving you back your guidance at that point. Sure, that's what they do, right? From the beginning we said, "Hey!, it can still work the thermal power plant." Of course it can still work, a few years, not 20 or 30 years, and in the meantime we've prepared a fair transition. You didn't want to come in there, because what Mr. Seco said is right, there are some who were ashamed to be next to a thermal power station, and among them to you. They were ashamed of what he had eaten so many generations in the bridges and in the neighborhood for years. They didn't want to stand by the coal. And we said, "Hey!, it's normal that for a few years it's still working, and when we find and go planning among all of us a solution, we close it; they didn't want it. All right. Then we bet on biofuel. Mr. Seco, you said that the Union has never been in that process. He's very ill-informed. I know that relations within the Socialist Party are not good. The other day they denounced the mayor of the Bridges for doubling the census in a week. They call him anyway, ask him, or ask the Lords of the Block, who will see how the information is given to him. See, from the very beginning, that commission was composed of a representative of Endesa, a representative of the Inega, a representative of the IDAE, which is a national representative, and a representative of the Council specifically hired by the Council of Bridges to see the possibility of biofuels going ahead. All the studies and all the evidence they did could go ahead. The only way in which there was indeed the economic situation was that there should logically be a bonus. In fact, as there are other energies to this day. It's the only thing that's needed to keep the coal power plant running with biofuels. But even though we all agree less Endesa, including the IDAE of the State Government, although we all agree, at one point there is something that changes the opinion of the Council of Bridges and also of the representatives of the State, and it is the round negative of Endesa. Where are we going? Now it turns out that Endesa is changing the Government of the Socialist Party and the Block on Bridges for something we don't know yet. The workers, by the way, don't know him either. So they changed their mind and started saying that the solution is no longer biofuels because Endesa doesn't want it. Oh, of course, the solution isn't biofuels because Endesa doesn't want to, oh, all right! And what is the solution? Well, Endesa's proposal is a wind farm, and you go and applaud. But they don't talk to the auxiliary companies, nor to the transporters, nor to the people who work at the station. No, the solution is to prejudice. We've been living in Ferrol since the year 83. Prejudice on the yards was a failure. We keep betting that the biofuel power plant can start operating, it depends only on the state, it depends on the state, whether it's willing to do or not what it has to do, it depends on the state. Do you agree with that initiative? We can keep a lot of jobs. You were talking about industrial floor. Look, the State Pact for Ferrol goes to the industrial floor. He spoke to the mayors, there were meetings with the mayors, including the mayors of the BNG, also those of the Socialist Party, and the contributions made by the mayors of the BNG and also by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as well as by the Committee on Bridges that has been formed, by the way. In the bridges, the industrial floor is included in that covenant of State by Ferrol the enlargement of Penapurreira, which is also included what is next to the lake, which are land of Endesa, which they have also requested from the very first moment, have an immediate transformation. And, in fact, the Galician Union began its transformation of the business land master plan to include Penapurreira and include those two performances that were not included in the beginning, but that's already done. By the way, if it's about putting measures on the short-term table, which you said, at first, and more planning, what are the measures that are included in the Ferrol State Pact that reach the bridges where you don't agree? Tell me if there's any action you propose, whether it is the competence of the Board, that there are many, or the competence of the State, that there are many, that you don't like. Tell me which one of those guys you don't like. And I'm going to finish, Mr. Seco, by saying that it was offensive to see the representatives of the People's Party speaking these days of Alcoa. I don't know if it's offensive, since it's very tasteful, that's what the Socialist Party has done. Remember you, because you were already a conceler at that time in Artexo, that Mr. Sánchez in a rally promised three years ago almost a statute of electrointensives, and that with that statute it was all solved. In fact, the workers on that rally were convinced that Sánchez gave them the solution. It took a year and a half, a year and a half to pass the statute and it didn't bring the solution to any of the problems of Alcoa or the rest of the electrointensives. It's more, it's still asking for a new status because it's not worth anything. But if we talk about Alcoa-La Coruña, remember you when they announced the bomb and plate, with the delegate at that moment in mind and you applauding, that the sale of Alcoa-La Coruña was the solution. Do you remember? We said it wasn't the solution, that what we were doing was making time. Now the months have passed and it has been shown that this was not the solution. So, that you have the ability to say that it's offensive to listen to those of the People's Party, I'm telling you that people probably don't think like you. He didn't think about it a month ago, sorry, a year ago, when we were summoned all the Greeks to the elections, and of course, in the Coruña, in Arteixo, where you are resident, the solution, of course, was not that. And, let me tell you, the representatives of the Socialist Party have a lot to improve because they are real satellites of what Moncloa says at all times. I know that I appreciate it and I recommend that, rather than reading the argument that they send you from Madrid, what you have to do is walk more through the municipalities, really. If you'd known the county of Ferrol or Ferrolterra, any of the municipalities, I wouldn't say the things he says, I wouldn't say the things he says. One, at certain times, has to be planted, and at least...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u173	... -- I'm done, president -- don't take part in certain comments or actions, or especially tell the party you're wrong about, and the Socialist Party has been wrong about industrial policy for many years. Really, don't look elsewhere, because the problem is at home. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u174	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, the ENERGY Basque Research Centre is the centre that most European funding has managed to capture the entire Spanish State during 2020. I mean, it's already a consolidated project, it goes to the head, it counts on the majority participation of the Basque Government through various and different organisms, and it's actually being used to boost and create synergies with industry and industry. In Catalonia they constituted Battech between the Instituto de Investigación da Energía de Cataluña and the Eureka Technology Center, directed to battery research, but also to network management, especially with second-life or new-generation batteries designed to ensure system stability. There are governments, at a discount in the central countries of the European Union, but also in the Spanish State, which have already identified years ago where the needs of the industry in the future will be. There are governments ahead of us, which should serve us, apart from other conclusions, to know where to take it. Learn what other governments do, other countries, that stand out precisely by their industrial tradition. Galicia has had for many years, in fact still has, a leading role in electricity production. In fact, we produce more than we consume. The real challenge for us as a country is to translate that production capacity into an opportunity to attract and consolidate the entire chain of industrial and economic value associated with the energy sector. The center of R+D+i for energy storage would have that virtue, it would be a first stone to make Galicia, and in particular the village of the Bridges, a pole of knowledge and technology. In fact, in the Bridges there is already part of that knowledge and there are several technologies of electrical, wind, hydraulic, thermal and combined cycle production. At the Bridges are located the knots for the evacuation of energy. What a better site for a storage centre, what a better place to test projects with different technologies and even to combine them. To have research centers like this would, in all light, be a qualitative leap into our country. Since the BNG we have also defended other initiatives aimed at bringing electricity production to industry and wealth in Galicia, as the installation of wind farms brings industrial projects partners. Another sure way of promoting reindustrialization and job creation. We also defend the establishment of a public energy company. Imagine that we've already counted on her, imagine that today in the current context of transition, of model change, we could count on one of our own companies already acting in the market. Wouldn't it be a fundamental tool for the Greek people? To promote a genuine transition, a public enterprise that had engulfed hydraulic jumps, wind farms, that had promoted new electrical production facilities and that had concentrated all its needs on goods and services that had an electric company and that had concentrated all its demand on Greek companies. There are ways, today there are several public energy companies promoting projects in our country, no Welsh, an Italian, a Norwegian and even a Chinese. Don't lose sight, ladies and gentlemen of the Board, that the project that you are working with Reganosa for The Bridges comes from the Portuguese EDP, whose main shareholder is a Chinese state company. It seems that everyone can literally do business with our energy resources but us. With tools such as these, public company and energy, forcing wind farms promoters to bring associated industrial projects, today's bridge future would be quite different. But, as I said in my first intervention, the current situation, the current crisis, gives to distinguish two levels of need. The most urgent one today needs a joint position that obliges Endesa to extend the guarantee of employment and the suspension of transfers of personnel affected by the closure of the thermal. We need an emergency fund to meet training needs and to fund an early retirement plan for older staff; we need to urgently equip the industrial floor council so that new industrial projects can be installed, and we need to send out a clear message that the Union, that the Government of Greece is committed to innovation, technology, building in the village of the Bridges this technological centre that serves as a revolution, which serves to attract and settle in the town other projects related to the sector that see in that bet an opportunity to make successful collaborations. If governments really bet on making the transition an opportunity, they will have to take care of these or similar proposals; otherwise, the transition will not be an opportunity, but a disaster. The village of Pontes needs governments to work together to boost and consolidate the best projects and needs temporary measures to prevent them from getting too late. His biofuels showed up when they appeared at the meeting asking for premiums that you during the rule of Mr. Rajoy eliminated. Here are the BNG proposals. You may be right about one thing, it might be the fault of everything to do with your seats, but I think it's more like you have to do with the armchairs that occupy the PP's high office on the board of directors of the electricians. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u176	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u177	We accept the amendment of the PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u178	Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We shall proceed to the vote. Is everyone to vote? I always ask. It's the right, the right to vote. [[Laughter]] The deputy has the right to vote and I have to protect that too... among other things. [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's vote these motions later. That's it. As a joke, it's already here. Let's go. Motions vote We will vote on the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Olalla Fernández Rodil. Go ask for a point vote, Mrs Ortega told me. Do you accept a point vote? How many points are there? Two. Let's vote first. Voting of point 1 of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the incompatibility of Galician social inclusion income with the perception of the minimum vital income. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion is therefore rejected. Let us now vote on the second point. Voting of point 2 of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the incompatibility of Galician social inclusion income with the perception of the minimum vital income. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion by Mr G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega, on the policy of the Social Policy Council on resources for dependency. There is an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group which has not been accepted. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Social Policy Council on resources for dependency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonso. There is an amendment by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group that has been accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the loss of industrial activity and employment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. The votes were finished. As long as we go back to the quorum we had established, we have to reduce this. We're going with a change, with a question that we have to substance now. Where's the Middle Rural Counsellor? Question by da Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Conseilería do Medio Rural relative to the restructuring of the forest districts You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u179	Thank you, President; Counselor. The problem of the fires in Galicia is not of public order, although every time the People's Party and the Government of Greece fires occur again and again, in criminalizing citizenship by talking about the many incendiaries who, in their opinion, flourish freely in the mountains of Galicia, just as they did so many times when things turned against, appealing to a supposed incendiary terrorism, argument that was strongly dismantled on repeated occasions by the Galician Prosecutor's Office. Although we well know that efforts must be maintained in this area and in the pursuit of crime, the problem of fires in Galicia is the absolute abandonment in the territory of this dismantled rural world that the People's Party and the Greek Government have decided to forget, and continues to do so after ruling the Union most of its existence. The problem of fires in Galicia is that half a million hectares of fires capable of exploiting sustainably and in a multifunctional way that currently have no agricultural or forestry activity. The problem is the lack of population relief and those 10,000 Welsh people who leave our country on average every year. Look, counsellor, the wave of fires in our community in October 2017, which we all remember for its magnitude and transcendence, generated a political opportunity to review the failure of the Popular Party's forestry policies. It was not a commission of inquiry, but of study, which took place after the careful and laborious work of the experts to a dictatorship of Parliament. I would like to remind you that the PSdeG, showing high point of view, understood that the fires were a matter of country and the change of policy was essential and priority for Galicia, voted itself. He voted in favour of a change in the formulas of fight against fire, to leave behind a policy of letting to implement an interventionist policy, a change reflected in the 123 measures taken from the Ditome of study and analysis of forest policy reforms, forest fire prevention and the Galician Forest Plan, specifically signed in November 2018. And, if you want, that gives us a sustained legitimacy in that vote in which we don't endorse their policies, but if we have duties of change with respect to forest policies, to which you committed yourself, but it's not being that way. It is obvious that many of the proposed improvements have not been implemented or assumed by the German Government, everything has been reduced to the creation of a general direction. It was not a proper distribution of existing means of fighting against fire. That's why we wonder if you're planning to hold the Conseilerie de Medio Rural to such a complicated restructuring of the forest districts, which was already discussed when I was counsellor Rosa Quintana. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. The truth, Mrs Rodríguez, is that I am especially glad that you asked me this question, because, although you were not in Parliament at that time, it is related to the parliamentary committee, which, in addition to the work of the experts, we also worked those who were in that committee. When the commission was dictated, and you referred to the text of the question, although you did not mention it now, we all understand what we were in that commission that the model we wanted for the fire prevention and extinction service had to be completed with an analysis of experts who were appointed by parliamentary groups and who made their report in 2019. Meanwhile, contrary to what you say, and taking into account the recommendations of the ruling that the Socialist Party has also voted on, in addition to creating that general address you mention, I also want to tell you that already in 2018 we passed almost 1,000 workers from the Three-month Fire Prevention and Extinction Service who had six jobs with a budget effort of 12 million euros. But we launched in 2018, ladies and gentlemen, a paradigmatic agreement on inter-administrative cooperation in the fight against forest fires, which is the agreement that was signed with Fegamp for the prevention and defense against forest fires and the establishment of a public biomass management system in secondary bands. Ladies and gentlemen, 270 municipalities of the 313 districts of Galicia are already in compliance with this agreement, more than 86% of the territory of Greece. Thanks to that joint effort and municipalities today, we can say that we have 129 municipalities with an approved plan of prevention and extinction and 103 others in processing. I mean, in three years, ladies and gentlemen, there was practically no municipal prevention plans to which, thanks to the agreement, they have approved or processed this plan 75% of the Greek municipalities, and at no cost to them because they assume the agreement. As today and also in compliance with these recommendations, in addition to drones, we have on the territory a total of fifteen prevention supervisors who are working on the ground with the object of checking the parcels that are managed or not managed in the priority parishes of the convention. But, as we also understand the need to collaborate with the municipalities, I also want to announce today that another 30 prevention supervisors will enter next week in those municipalities that do not have priority parishes to check if they are actually managing the secondary fringes. And returning to the expert report, I repeat, experts appointed by all parliamentary groups in 2018 and who made their report in 2019, and what was referred to in the text in their question, I mean that you have made an interested reading of it, because it does not mention the tenth point of that report. At this point it is found that it was agreed between the experts appointed by parliamentary groups and the Council of the Rural Environment a new model of municipal brigades, which could expand, and precisely equip yourself with what you said your working time to six months, in addition to a bet decided by their professionalization. That requires a budgetary effort that experts also said had to involve the municipalities, the board and the deputies. The layout of the board and the municipalities is total, as I just pointed out through the convention. The answer given to us by the Greek MPs about the fight against forest fires I'm telling him or explaining it in my reply. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u182	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u183	Thank you, President. Look, it also says the dictate and recommendation in these 123 recommendations that the cause of many fires is the lack of forest planning and management, where you are reluctant to write it and, if they do, their application remains in a mere statement of intent. Since the programming of a Pladiga or Pladica, which is a copy and takes in many cases, it's a breach in its execution. In the few years that we rule the bipartisan, important steps have been taken towards real planning in prevention, which you really know is important to achieve good results in forest fire campaigns. As proof of this, you know Article 49 of Law 3/2007, which establishes the obligation to draw up a map of risk and urgent action measures in areas affected by forest fires after the high-risk period. What a coincidence it's one of the few articles that hasn't been changed since this law came into force, perhaps because they haven't developed it or have forgotten it. I wonder what they did this year in preventive measures beyond what you're telling me. If you meet the scheduled calendars, because we do not know about this after you ask in committee how the biomass management track network is. They also don't have, for example, the Jury Management Plan, the National Jury Park. He'll also say that the Rural Council is responsible. But I also wonder what kind of coordination they have planned between the rural and environmental councils in both prevention and extinction, as if unfortunately it occurs in the corrective measures after a fire occurs and how it will be reflected in the risk map, if they do it for the first time for the next year. What is the reason why recommendation No. 11 has been changed to collect in a single legislative text all existing rules on the prevention and extinction of forest fires in Galicia? This re-founding should have been done before January 1, 2019...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u185	You spoke of planned prevention, Mrs. Rodríguez, and I tell you that, in addition to the Directorate-General for Defence of the Mountain, you have created this board, if you have created the Directorate-General for Planning and Forest Management and, at this time, in addition to the approved Forest Plan 2021-2040, in addition to many other regulations, such as the register of consolidated luxuriant masses and others that are affecting that planning. But if I may, and I refer to the question you asked about whether we were applying the 2019 expert group proposals, I repeat, experts designated by all parliamentary groups, I tell you that a new model of municipal brigades, of municipal means of forest fire prevention and extinction -- because we don't forget how important it is that the municipalities are well equipped with means of prevention and extinction -- and a new model of municipal brigades that went on for six months, and that they were also proficient. This model has been agreed upon by the Rural Council and by the experts appointed by Parliament. And there it was said that we all had to collaborate in the financing of this new model, also the provincial deputies, and that in my reply I'll explain to you what the provincial deputies told me about. I believe that in the face of the threat of forest fires there should be no doubt, because prevention and extinction is an area of action which is particularly transcendent in this autonomous community and requires cooperation between all administrations. In this regard, Mrs Rodríguez, the Council of the Rural Environment has sent a letter to the four provincial deputies in Galicia, more than once to three of them, requesting a meeting to advance inter-administrative cooperation in setting up municipal media for prevention and extinction in line with the recommendation by the experts appointed by the parliamentary groups. What is the answer to three of these Members? The silence by answer. You know, Mrs. Rodríguez, who rules those three deputies? Socialist Party and Nationalist Block Galego. At this point, I have to say that we only count on the collaboration of the House of Ourense, which, in addition to being in agreement with the model designed by the group of experts -- of course, is that the problem of fires is laughter, Mr. President -- is co-financing the purchase of tractors for transportation by the municipalities, in addition to giving up their heavy machinery for the realization of prevention work. And while we hope that the other deputies will be worthy of meeting with the councillor, what we did this year in the light of the agreement was to rent out 16 other tractors to give them to the provinces of Lugo, Ourense, forgiveness, Lugo, Pontevedra and Coruña, so that the municipalities of these provinces can be unraveled. We mustn't look at ideological theories to defend the interests of our citizens. So, Mrs. Rodríguez, I think that, in the wake of this question, I understand that we should all reflect, also on the parties that are in those deputies, and once we have put in place this inter-administrative cooperation in the fight against forest fires, specifically to equip our councils with sufficient means of prevention and extinction, as it is of course willing to do the Council of the Middle Rural Council of Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-13-DSPG043.u186	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the plenary until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you.
