ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. And, no more, we're on the agenda. Point 1. Request for the establishment of an inquiry committee proposed by the 19 G.P. Members and Members. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the involvement of the PPdeG in illegal financing and in the "box b" of the People's Party For that, first of all, there is a round of the requesting parliamentary group, which in this case is the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u2	Good morning. This proposal for the creation of a parliamentary commission of research on the illegal financing of the People's Party and the participation in that financing of the People's Party of Galicia I believe that at this time it is more than known. After eight years of judicial investigations, there is increasing evidence of the People's Party as a corrupt party; there are facts accredited by judicial judgement, for example, the condemnation of the People's Party in the Gürtel trial, first stage up to the year 2005 -- there are still successive stages of Gürtel --. A May 2018 conviction, which was subsequently ratified by the Supreme and which condemns the People's Party as a lucrative participant and a fine of 245,000 euros is imposed on it. And this is just a small part of the corrupt plot of the People's Party, we can say it's the tip of the iceberg, because in that trial the illegal financing was not judged, but box B was not judged. But now we're seeing a trial in the National Audience precisely on this matter about the alleged financing with box B, in black, therefore, of the reform works of the seat of Genoa of the People's Party. Other trials are also pending, such as the second stage Gürtel, or also the Kitchen operation, which is nothing more and nothing less than the use of the State sewer network to look for those papers of Mr. Bárcenas that you say are not true. So, I don't know why they're riding from the Ministry of the Interior these operations led by a left-handed character like Commissioner Villarejo to look for those papers. That's how you fight against corruption, with Commissioner Villarejo and the big ones breaking the hard drives, destroying the hard drives. [[Applause]] But the truth is -- as I said -- this is just the tip of the iceberg and it's a lot missing yet for coming out of the light. And from the researched and published, one of the conclusions we can draw is that the Galician People's Party, which, as far as we know, is not a different party from the Spanish People's Party -- I don't know if you consider yourselves different -- because what can be deduced is that the Galician People's Party has had an absolutely central role in the illegal financing of the Spanish People's Party. We can say that all the paths to the corruption of the People's Party lead to the People's Party of Galicia, the People's Party of Fraga and the People's Party of Faixóo, which was -- we remember -- president of the People's Party in 2006 when some of those documents we're going to talk about are revealed. So we can talk about the Galician People's Party being a real mine, a quarry, a university of training and promotion and projection of all these corruptions, of all those plots that already go back to a very well-known case of Mr Naseiro, which was -- let's say -- the first one. A person very close to Mr. Fraga who has been exempted from responsibilities we already know why: not by committing irregularities, but by some illegal listening; therefore, things have come from so far. And he said that there are disturbing and overwhelming data that allow us, at least, suspicions and that they justify at least that there is a search with light and tachygraphs on all these issues. First, the statements by Pablo Crespo, who speaks of the illegal financing of the People's Party as 75% of the income. And Pablo Crespo was not one who was passing by, well, he passed by, passed through these benches of the People's Party, he was sitting on the same benches, he was a member of the People's Party; he was not any, he was a secretary of the People's Party's organization in the 1990s. And he was appointed by Mr. Fexóo, or at least ratified by Mr. Fexóo as spokesman for Ports of Galicia until the year 2005, in which he was terminated by the new Government; therefore, he was not any one. For Mr. Pablo Crespo, convicted at the Gürtel, was one of the great architects of all this corrupt plot of the People's Party and then at the Gürtel. Secondly, there's a report from the 2006 People's Party manager, Modesto Fernández, 2006 -- I don't have to remind you who was the president of the People's Party in Galicia -- which says that 2,600,000 euros entered by the People's Party, 2 million are opaque, are black, are payments from companies benefiting from concessions from the Government of the People's Party and Mr. Fraga and Mr. Fexóo. And there's the list, we can give the data -- 2 million of 2.6 million in black -- that's how it worked when Mr. Faixóo was chaired by the Galician People's Party. And then there's revelations again -- there's a lot that we could quote here, but because we're tied to some -- which are full of in the Galician People's Party, the Basel revelations when he talks about that in 2010 the leader of the Pontevedra People's Party goes to Madrid personally, because he can't make a black transfer, to deliver 50,000 euros in black to Mrs. Cospedal and Mr. Rajoy's envelopes. This was how the Galician People's Party worked at the height of 2010 when Mr. Fexóo was president of that party, when Mr. Fexóo was president of the Galician Union, when he was president of the Pontevedra People's Party, Mr. Louzán -- who followed him for many more years and was, by the way, a candidate in 2016, on recent dates --. [[Applause]] That's how the People's Party worked, and so this needs to be investigated, it needs to be known. And so we're, therefore, very serious facts, cumulative facts, recurrent facts that make an organized plot manifest. And we're not talking -- as some theory says -- about rotten apples, some corrupt people who contaminate the rest of the organization and stain the image of the organization. No, here the whole basket is rotten, the whole basket was rotten, the whole basket worked in B; and so if we had to talk about some theory, we would have to talk about the theory of the structural corruption of the People's Party and the People's Party as a corrupt party. I, if I had to make some sure ranking that in Europe was on the ranking of the most corrupt parties, more condemned for corruption, more investigated for corruption, with more causes and more money through these pathways. And this was also recognized by Pablo Casado himself, is that you yourself have come to recognize this, Mr. Pablo Casado has made a sort of manifest accusation when he said that if he wanted to unlink that dark past, that black past, that corrupt past and denied the previous leaders of the People's Party and said that he needed to change his seat because that thirst was stained by the money of corruption in B, black money that is being investigated. [[Applause]] So, what else is there to say? [[Applause]] Curiously, Mr. Fexóo unmarked this theory on prime time and said that, well, that those were little things, minute sins, that they were some specific people and that so they did wrong some specific people couldn't question the whole past; different theories and explanations. That is why, given the seriousness of these facts, we propose the establishment of a commission of inquiry. We think it's the best formula for you to know from the beginning to the end all this corruption, all this data, all these figures that appear, all these complaints, all these suspicions. And you should be the first and most interested in this being done, precisely to clean up -- as Mr. Married -- the house said and to get rid of the corrupt practices of the past. And the best way to do this is with a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because there is -- of course -- the legal route that will give rise to criminal responsibilities -- if there are them -- but then there is the way to political and public and moral responsibilities, and that is said in the political field, in the parliamentary field, and that is why we make this proposal. We know that you have your arguments against them, which are already known. Now they've put on the table another new argument, which is that of the pandemic, in times of pandemic, you can't investigate any of this because, of course, there are other emergencies and other emergencies. And we say yes, that more than ever to be investigated now; firstly, by a matter of health and also democratic; and secondly, because it is about public money, public policy and the good name of the public, which cannot be allowed to go that way. So they have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u3	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u4	...to make a decision -- finished, president --, it's not worth looking elsewhere, no excuses. They have to choose if they're still defending PP in B, PP in black, looting or corruption all these years; or they choose to break up with that dark past and clean up all black wells that 10 years later they're still throwing out. You decide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u5	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee we are debating today is more than justified, taking into account seven words: "true and effective system of institutional corruption." Seven words that are not my authorship, nor my invention, nor my creation, but a proven fact of the first judgment of the Gürtel case. And what we're talking about here is clarifying the part that affects Galicia's PP in the midst of the corruptions that consist of the Gürtel, Bárcenas, Punica and a long et cetera cases with multiple plots and subtrails that have gone wrong with the passage of time to the end of half of the Aznar Government, going through the trial or directly convicted and entering prison. And given that there are sufficient indications that they point to the state-level corruption of PP passing through Galicia and ending up in Galicia, and that Galicia's PP has been doubled to elections for a long time. And at the very least, he was also duped to the elections of 2009 that led Mr Feijóo to the presidency of the Galician Union. And even in the recent investigation of the Kitchen case, about espionage and the theft of documentation to Basel, the only accounting that appears to be cited as such is precisely that of Galician PP. And we believe that we have to investigate corruption and corruption of the party that governs Galicia is a matter of maximum transcendence. We don't believe -- as Mr. Feijóo said on March 24 -- that it's surprising to talk about corruption in the middle of a pandemic, because we don't have with corruption the favor that Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rueda have. And we condemn every case of corruption that occurs in any political organization -- also, by the way, in our own -- because there is no political or human organization that is safe from corruption, but in the case of PP instead of being the exception there are sufficient reasons to think that it is part of its DNA. And that's why the only ones found millions in Switzerland are always, not by chance, militants from their party, the People's Party. And I say that we are not as good as Mr Feijóo with corruption because to begin neither Gonzalo Caballero nor me, nor any of the PSdEG Members and Members here had nor will we ever have any relationship, for example, with no drug dealer, the difference of Mr Feijóo, who, according to Martial Dorada last year in the Jordi Évole program, slept in his home and even prepared his breakfast. And you might have to see the fact that Mr. Feijóo is surprised that he's talking about corruption with the fact that it's not surprising to him that a politician almost familiarly relates to a drug dealer, he might be. Or it would be surprising to Mr Feijóo that we are talking about corruption in this Parliament because corruption is so normal in his party that it is not worth talking about. [[Applause]] In any case, although in Mr. Feijó's life he almost familiarized himself with a drug dealer is normal and not surprising, for the world ahead it's not even normal. I certainly have speculated about the relations between some Latin American and African political regimes with drug trafficking, but I think I am not mistaken to say that Mr Feijóo is the only politician in the democratic world of what is known to be overnight and having lunch and sailing with a prominent drug dealer and money-laundering. And what I mean by this allusion to Mr. Dorado is that, from the moment a politician is almost familiar with a drug dealer, and he and his party look normal, suspicions of everything he does and says that politician and his party are the most natural. The unnatural thing would be that we didn't suspect, because the ethical word comes from the Greek ethos, which means behavior and character. And the character of a person and his behavior are united and intertwined to such an extent that Heraclito said that a man's character is his destiny. And if we were to be led by Heraclito, we would say that Mr. Feijóo's character was what led him to remain friends with a well-known and recognized tobacco smuggler who, according to the judgments that later condemned him in his dealings with Mr. Feijóo, had already made a fortune on the basis of money laundering from tobacco smuggling and drug trafficking. And that, when Mr. Feijóo spent the night and was treated familiarly at Mr. Dorado's house, he had already been arrested more than once for being a known criminal, sheltered -- that is yes -- for that presumption of innocence that you so much like to invoke. With these backgrounds, following with Heraclito and his claim that the character of a man is his destiny, it would be almost inevitable that the character of a man like Mr. Feijóo, who almost familiarly relates to criminals, would be to shelter crime or even to incur it. And let me quote here -- because today I'm dating -- to Thomas de Quincey, who in his book on the murder considered one of the fine arts said what if you start by allowing yourself to murder, soon it doesn't matter about theft, about theft, about the passing of life and the disregard of Lord's Day, and it ends up missing good education and leaving things for the next day. And that's why it's not surprising to us with these background records what's going on in the National Court at the trial of the Basel case. First of all, that both the former PP manager Cristobal Paez and the Bárcenas themselves confirmed that the last operation of PP's box B was a cash payment of 50,000 euros made in 2010 that exactly came from the PP of Pontevedra. And Mr. Bárcenas and Mr. Feijóo have different lawyers, different procedural strategies and they also go wrong, but they provide perfectly complementary and different details about this same fact: a payment of 50,000 euros to the box B from the PP of Pontevedra in 2010 when Mr. Feijóo had been in charge of the PP of Galicia for four years now along with Mr. Rueda. And it has been done that Mr. Luis Fraga, nephew of his founder and cousin of Mr. Puy, says that Bárcenas deserves total credibility, total credibility, just the credibility that Mr. Feijóo doesn't deserve. And if this is part of Mr. Paez's defense strategy and Mr. Bárcenas, as Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rueda say, I ask you why these two gentlemen talk about a payment in 2010 from Pontevedra and not a payment from any of the other provinces of Spain. Do you have Mr. Paez in charge of Mr. Rueda and Mr. Feijóo? And secondly, it turns out that among the documents of the Barcelona case there is a detailed business income ratio amounting to 2 million euros that was supposedly the accounting B of the Galician PP when Feijóo was already President of the Party and the Secretary General Wheel in 2006; 2 million euros in bites to the PP 3 years before Mr. Feijóo arrived at the President of the Board, which would imply that Mr. Feijóo arrived doubled to the Presidency of the Union, not to mention the fact that the agency that led Mr. Feijóo's campaign in 2009 is called Swat, S. L, and is filled in the Gürtel and Punica cases. In conclusion, the creation of an investigation commission on corruption of the party that governs Galicia is neither a whimsical nor a partisan issue, nor something that we pull out of the sleeve because it is currently a matter of strict democratic hyxine and of utmost interest to the whole citizenship. For any citizen who is concerned about the health of our democracy and our institutions in Galicia. [[Applause]] Among other things, to dissipate the much more than well-founded suspicions that it weighs precisely on the Government that it has to contribute to manage the greatest laugh of European funds that it has ever received Galicia, such as the Next Generation funds, and that it should offer transparency and assurances that not one euro of these funds will end up in an account in Switzerland or Panama, and that public money in a Galicia that passes through the greatest economic crisis of our lives will not be part of the multi-corruption circuits of the People's Party, also of the People's Party of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u7	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u8	Thank you very much, President. Let me begin with my first words in this full of solidarity with my companion Elena Candia, who has suffered a lamentable machist attack by the president of the Lugo Deputy a few days ago, in which Mr. Tomé has shown two things for general knowledge: that he may be a true lady clothed in leopard and he may be a true drunk wearing costume and tie. It's frankly regrettable. All our solidarity with Elena Candia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by clarifying the nature of the debate that we are being moved here today, because we are not in a debate on convenience or not to set up an investigation commission that lacks any foundation, because, if that were what you wanted, Mr Bará, Mr. Aranguena, the only thing that would suffice is that they have registered a formal request and, thanks to a regulatory reform promoted by the Galician People's Party itself, that commission would be automatically constituted. But that doesn't interest them, because before what we find ourselves, it's before a new chapter on the moral superiority of the left, which is not interested in knowing the truth, but in using the Galician Parliament as a hunting point and, in time, diverting the attention of its corruption scandals that justice has, by the way, believed in the last few weeks. Look, in the last few weeks, not in the last eight years, eh!, in the last eight weeks, justice has sentenced Mr. Lineres to five years in prison for giving bites in exchange for public work at EUR 20,000 per piece. He sentenced justice to 26 months in prison the mayor of Bembriva, Mr. Ballesteros, for falseness, malice and prevarication, mayor who is the right hand in Vigo of Mr. Caballero and Mrs. Silva. Why, by designing a phantom work to profit, and thus adding to a new conviction that he was already disabled for 7 years and that I assumed, yes, that he would keep the current secretary of organization of the current PPdeG, 9 months, in his mayorship, despite having a 7-year disability conviction. Look, we also know that the Prosecutor's Office has charged the mayor of the Porriño and the concierge of Parks with crimes of continued prevarication and misrepresentation. Why? Because, according to the court of the administrative dispute, it considered the irregular action of the Porriño Council to be extremely serious for carrying out verbal charges in works without public procurement procedures, suspecting that services were entrusted massively, orally, directly and undercover, to subjects privileged by very high amounts violating the applicable legality. And the same judge says: this jury will not be complicit in these practices and it is obliged to [...] without any testimony from individuals to have the Court of Auditors and criminal courts investigate requiring responsibilities. The Socialist Party and not the mu. Condemns the Vigo Council for appointing officers. Again plugs in Vigo. They denounce unions: It is a perverse system implanted in the municipal organizational structure so they have been assigning posts to the margins of constitutional order, preventing the possibilities of access by many public servants to certain positions, and plugs in Vigo again. By the way, Mr Arangüena could speak of the request for a petition to the Congress of Members of the Taibo, his successor on the scene, which, of course, continues to give press rounds this very week. And what is the corollary of all this that's happened in the last 8 weeks? That we have to investigate the Galician People's Party. It's just amazing, it's really amazing. Look, over the past eight years, the Galician People's Party has undergone the microscopic examination of justice. All those documents of which you speak, documents, reports, declarations and evidence that supposedly existed against the People's Party of Galicia were studied by eight national court investigation judges, by three Supreme Court magistrates, by countless taxation and individual charges, and even were examined in two committees of inquiry in Congress. Result: zero demands of justice to the People's Party of Galicia, zero citations not even as a witness to one current leader of the People's Party of Galicia, zero charged and not one single indication of Gürtel's relationship with the current People's Party of Galicia. Not one, not one. [[Applause]] But, of course, there were two options, which are accepting the dictates of justice and apologizing to those who were unjustly wronged, or ignoring justice and continuing to insult and lie, as was done here today, by the way. Mr Bará, the case of hard records has been brought to trial and with those responsible for the Absolute People's Party. And there is no fine against the People's Party in the Gürtel case, but civil, civil compensation, no fine, no lie. But of course, neither Judge Garzón, nor Judge Ruz, nor Pedreira, nor Gomez Bermúdez, nor Pedraz, nor Monterde, nor García Castellón, nor Judge De la Mata can investigate, and that's why we need this parliamentary commission, Mortadelo and Philemon, in order to reach the same conclusions that you have written for eight years, Your Honor; 8 years of continuous lie. [[Applause]] And you spoke to me, Mr. Aranguena, of favor. You have a Secretary General of the PSdeG accused, a President of the Hydrographic Conference of the convicted PSdeG, the mayor of the condemned Porriño and with new charges, the mayor of Bembrive convicted and with 3 pending charges, the mayor of convicted Camarinas, the mayor of condemned Cerceda, the mayor of Verín investigated, the mayor of Vimianzo investigated and, of course, some conciliator in Vigo also investigated by his papers in Panama; but neither a single statement nor a single suspicion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How clever that of the parliamentary left-wing investigators!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u9	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u10	Look, ladies and gentlemen, we apologize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u11	Quiet, please, now listen too. This goes back and forth. But you have to listen, you have to be able to fit in, too, that's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u12	If you allow me, your lordships, as I said, excuse me for the mistakes made, yes, we will ask them how many times it is necessary, executions in the public square based on lies and double morals, no, gentlemen. But I didn't want you, gentlemen, to leave here with a bad taste of mouth, nor do I want you to see your research cravings frustrated. I'd like to make some suggestions on possible research committees where you can throw away your desire for transparency and fight against corruption, because if you want to investigate corruption, ladies and gentlemen, your own parties don't miss opportunities. Look, I propose, for example, a commission studying the case of the Porriño, in which you were intrusion, this council, against PP mayors who were all acquitted and, by the way, investigated the plot of corruption and friendship that exists in that council where you have condemned the last mayor of the BNG and the current mayor condemned for falsifying judicial writings, for deceiving his clients, which we understand is whether it should be compatible with socialist ethics. They can do an investigation commission, for example, in the Deputy of Pontevedra, where you rule together, and study how the purchase of the Government of Porriño with public funds from the provincial deputy takes place. I'm sure in that committee they can explain to us what qualities Mr Carrera adorns to, without being his government, be responsible for confidence, known as an expert in tourism, even though he is neither trustworthy nor knows anything about tourism and what he did was receive 140,000 euros in exchange for raising his hand and keeping the mayor in the Porriño Town Hall despite his convictions. You have the opportunity to do a research in Vigo, for example, by studying the case of plugs, it seems it bothers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u13	Mr. Seco, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u14	...it seems that it bothers us to talk about everyone's corruption, right, the case of plugs in Vigo where there is an official convicted of plugging, according to the sentence, along with other people, Mrs. Silva's sister-in-law. Who will be Mrs. X who sent to fill up Mrs. Silva's sister-in-law, who will be, ladies? Aren't you curious about this? They could also investigate the Pontevedra Town Hall. In the Council of Pontevedra, there have been reports of cases of recruitment with Sermos Galicia, of which several members of the BNG are shareholders, with Galicia Nova, with Galicia Always, with the Bautista Álvarez Foundation, contracts with Mr. Lores' sister, with the BNG spokesman's fiancé, contracts with the Town Councillor, contracts with number 2 on the BNG Senate list, contracts with number 21 of the municipal list of BNG, contracts with the BNG delegate in Salnes and contracts with the lieutenant mayor of Barros, who will surprise them, is the BNG. And you don't investigate anything, it's a fantastic thing. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you've been hunting a ghost for too long. I repeat to them that I have no objection to apologizing to all the members of the People's Party and to anyone who has deposited his trust in our party for the cases of corruption in which people in our organization have been involved. They are regrettable, and we will condemn them in the past, in the present and how many times they are necessary. But there's a difference between you and us, we condemn our cases of corruption. You keep silent, you don't say mu, you keep your defendants at the posts and the convicted, too, and you come here to teach lessons in the fight against corruption and transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, less advice and more to apply the story, they have to have a leftover place where to give free income to these researching aspirations and not where justice has spoken, spoke with constancy and believed that the Galician People's Party has no connection to Gürtell, or anything to be ashamed of in relation to that subject. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u15	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u16	Sadly, Mr. Pazos, la-men-ta-ble. But, well, it's nothing new, it's his usual style. [[Applause]] Come here with the fan to spread everything you have in the black wells and try to salify the others. Look, whoever asked for this investigation commission was the BNG and you're doing well with the saying, "Fuck it, how many boots it is!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Because, of course, who can remove it is who has it, and you certainly have a lot of it. You have a lot to spread. [[Applause]] And you did here a storyteller of Welsh cases and I got your attention, because you have a kind of selective memory, I don't know if it was a lapse. You have forgotten to mention the condemnation of the Vice-President in Pontevedra, appointed by Mr. Fexóo, Luisa Piñeiro, and Mr. Louzán, who have just been convicted, sentenced to two years in prison and eight years in disability. [[Applause]] And we could go on, but this is very recent, and you vote these things forget them. And, look, I'm glad you told me about Pontevedra, I didn't expect any less. You guys, the problem they have in Pontevedra is an absolute lack of credibility, an absolute lack of project, an absolute lack of leadership, and they're in an absolute moment of despair, because they've been in the opposition for 22 years, losing elections, and then there's nothing else to do with this. Yeah, 22 years, yeah, yeah, yeah! What can you say and we don't? You can say it and we can't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u17	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u18	Five candidates from the People's Party who put their knees in front of Lores and then you're now trying to recover. Yes, yes. [[Applause]] What are you telling me? You guys, because they have no arguments, because they have no plans, they're already in the open grave, they're worth everything, and they even report here that we make contracts with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u19	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u20	...with Sermos, but what are you telling me, that we can make contracts with the voice of Galicia or with Galego or with the newspaper of Pontevedra and we can't make contracts with Sermos, but what are you telling me? You're in the blacklist strategy, the lynching of honest people and first-line professionals like Kiko da Silva, and we hire the best professionals in this country and we don't look at the meat, we don't look at the meat; there are certainly many who vote for other parties, we don't look at the meat, we hire the best ones. [[Applause]] And by the way, he forgot you here, that he also had an opportunity to apologize and make reference, for example, to Fernando Blanco. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u21	Mr. Dry. Mr. Seco, I call you by order, a call by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u22	They owe you an apology and the first thing you owe is Mr. President of the Board, here absent, who in the previous plenary spoke of 25 percent of our part of the Government in proceedings. How can one have such a hard face, so indecency, so much immorality when the General Council of the Judiciary itself concludes to recognize that it has been subjected to an unjust judicial procedure and that it must be compensated for the damage it has caused? [[Applause]] What you did to Fernando Blanco was a real moral lynching...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u23	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u24	...and that's his cause because he was an advisor who defended the country's interests, who raised him to the big electric oligopolie companies and that's why he had to pay. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, I know they don't like being told this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u25	Silence! Quiet, please! Mr. Puy and Mrs. Prado, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u26	Look, here's the data, here's the judgments. First phase of Gürtell, this is just the beginning, it's just the beginning. We still need to judge, investigate corruption, box B, the Basel accounts, Kitchen adds up and goes on, and it's just getting started. So what we want to do here is an investigation, an investigation!, and you're clear that you don't want it because you don't want all this corruption to come out of light that has had very serious consequences, you have to say, first of all, the looting of public objects, you talk about up to 124,000 million euros that leads to corruption in the Spanish state, and about half of it is attributed to the causes of corruption of the People's Party. And the second is the adulteracon of democratic processes, because you've been duped with this black money, this money in B at the elections of 2005 and 2009, and you choose if they're still justifying and covering this People's Party in Black, that People's Party in B, these corrupt practices, because it's not only worth changing their thirst or changing their name, you have to fight this corruption with all the consequences, you have to choose transparency, you have to choose decency and you have to choose for things and clear accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u27	Thank you, Mr Bará. We shall vote on the request for the establishment of an inquiry commission requested by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Voting of the request for the establishment of an inquiry committee proposed by the 19 Members and Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the involvement of the PPdeG in illegal financing and in the "box b" of the People's Party The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. The creation of this investigation committee is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u28	We're still on the agenda. Legislative texts. Silence! Please, that's very difficult to follow. Debate taken into account the G.P. Bill of the Nationalist Block of Reform of Law 11/2007, 27 July 2007, for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence For the presentation of the bill, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u29	Good morning, gentlemen. Let me, as a previous question, that I wanted to transfer to Mrs. Elena Candia, as a woman and as a national spokesperson of the BNG, all our support, because we find it unacceptable that in the middle of 2021 no woman should be attacked by her way of dress. And you have to report it from where it comes from. So all our solidarity and support because it seems to us to be unacceptable, I have to say it clearly. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, violence against women on all sides of the planet takes place every day. By simply being women, we are subjected to a gender-based violence that discriminates against us, assaults us and seeks to rob us of our right to be free and equal, a violence that in the extreme case kills us. And all this, within the framework of an administrative, political, judicial and police system that today is unable to prevent us from having to endure one of the most obvious examples of human rights violations, macho violence. What brings me to this forum today is the most cruel and twisted form of gender-based violence, the one that is practised against the lives of children and daughters with the intention of harming women, which is known as vicarous violence. Can anyone in this House imagine the suffering of a woman whose mate, her ex-wife, whose abuser decides to hurt her by always taking away what she wants, her children and her daughters? I, of course, have to tell you that I feel like the heart if I wait when I see these kinds of cases, because I'm not able to imagine the pain these women felt. And I'm sure we all share in this hemicycle that we feel deep down, we feel that feeling of chasm that you can see a woman subjected to such devastating and cruel masculine violence. However, today the law doesn't recognize these women as victims of macho violence. And in other words, and to make it clear what I'm saying, the women who lose their sons and daughters killed at the hands of their batterers with the intention of making as much damage as possible, these women today don't have the legal consideration of victims of violence as a macho. And so they don't have the rights that give such consideration and the greatest protection that grants the comprehensive status of a victim of gender-based violence. Therefore, for legal purposes, they have not recognized this right to economic, labour, social and psychological aid and are not covered by the protocols of action provided for by women who suffer from macho violence. Changing this situation to protect and protect women victims of vicar violence is the objective of this BNG bill for which I call for the support of all Members and Members of this Parliament. Clearly we know that fighting gender-based violence is the ultimate goal, I think the reason to be of all laws against gender-based violence is to raise awareness to prevent such violence from occurring. But we also know that this is not an easy way and that the coup d'état is not solved, and therefore it is also important that as long as such violence continues to exist we have the greatest means of protection. And that we're going to cover the gaps that the laws that have been great steps ahead leave, because I think that's what's necessary and that's also the useful policy that today is claiming citizenship. So today, we present a bill that seeks to modify the current Welsh Law of gender violence and which has a very specific objective and is the recognition as victims of gender violence to those women who have or have to suffer the murder or murder of their sons and daughters by whom their partners were. With this legislative proposal, what we propose is to expand the concept of gender-based violence as set out in Article 3. And, therefore, increased recognition as gender-based violence when the murder or murder of a woman's children or daughters occurs. In addition, we believe that it must be retroactive, so that all women who have suffered in the past vicarous violence can be protected by that status as a victim of gender-based violence and have access to all the aid and protection collected in this statute. I would like to point out that this bill that we bring to the House of Commons is in line with the reports and the jurisprudence of the courts which, under the Istanbul Convention, recognize vicarious violence as a manifestation of gender-based violence. And I also point out that today there are numerous studies that are proving that the purpose of the acts we are talking about is to cause the greatest suffering, both psychologically and women's health. So with everything you've been looking at, with all we know, we think it's incomprehensible -- and I would say it's ethically intolerable -- that these women don't have the recognition of victims of gender violence, which means having less resources and less comprehensive protection mechanisms when facing a situation that I'm convinced that we all understand is very hard. This legislative initiative of the BNG is also in line with what has been drawn up in the State Covenant on Combating Gender Violence, specifically in point 139, it has been established to extend psychosocial support and labour rights to social security benefits. As well as the economic rights collected in the Gender Violence Act to those who suffer from vicarous violence, that is, the most extreme damage that the batterer can inflict on a woman, damage or murder her sons and daughters. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand from the BNG that the arguments for this Parliament to take into account this initiative put forward by the BNG to give greater protection to victims of vicarious violence. But I wouldn't, of course, finish this exhibition without giving a voice to the women who went through such a painful experience that it even costs me to imagine. A voice that brought us through a report that drew up from their own reflections, their own experiences, their own assessments and opinions. In that report, these resilient women, and those of course we have to move all our affections, are asking us to act because -- I want to quote them textually -- "it's enough already to disappear in such diverse aspects as legal, psychological or economic. We ask them to do an exercise of empathy, to understand the devastation that is going on years later and to try to create changes within their competences, to educate on an equal basis, to defend those who need it and to respond with appropriate measures that address the problems before they occur." These are the words of women who have gone through the worst of the experiences, who have felt and feel unprotected, helpless, and who, despite this situation, have the generosity and the ability to talk constructively to us, because far beyond the reproach or criticism that we are being asked for, are solutions. Solutions that help them to get out of the way after a dramatic experience that they're going to have to learn to live the rest of their lives. Solutions because most people are forced to change their place of residence to withstand emotional or psychological burden, because, as they confess, anonymously helps to lift their voice and avoid social pressure. And solutions also to have a means of life, because we know that many after a shock like this they lose their job and they have a really difficult situation. In short, what we're being asked for is help, psychological aid, economic aid, labor aid, legal aid, aid to try to restore their lives. And since this Parliament, since political action, we have an obligation to give them that help, not to stay in what they themselves qualify for in this writing as photos of solidarity. We have an obligation to give them the legal protection they need and end up with a tearing disappearance, because we know that there are means but they are not activated. And these, ladies and gentlemen, aren't my words, are the words of the victims themselves who give us through that report. [[Applause]] Women victims of vicar violence have their terrible experience to mark the path to what we should do, what they expect of us as political leaders. And from this terrible experience they draw conclusions that we have to give them an immediate and urgent response, conclusions that I wanted to sum up in five points. It is necessary to improve the specific training in violence of a gender of workers, of judges, of police, of social services, of information centres to women... so that they can make effective and real risk assessments. Secondly, action protocols to this type of case where we should look at things as basic as what is the protocol to communicate a fact of these characteristics, what kind of health care?, what is psychological assistance?, or what should economic aid, for example, for something as basic as therapies?, which will understand that they are extremely expensive and that today many cannot afford or have a service from the public domain. Thirdly, a protocol also for the media that makes it easier for you to provide information about the facts but always preserving the privacy and privacy of the victims, avoiding sensationalism, overexploitation and unsolicited and unwanted media pressure. Fourthly, help is needed in the case of many of these women who are out of work because of the shock situation and who then have a really complicated job reintegration. They suggest that creating specific workbags can be an alternative. And I also point out that today many have no access to housing aid, not even when they are forced to change residence, a situation that is a majority. Fifthly, there is a need for help in dealing with the economic burdens arising from the tragedy, such as management costs, insurance costs, lawyers, resources, administrative and legal procedures. And all of this makes it harder for many who have a situation of low income. And right now there are families and friends who are supplicating the absences and the holes that the public administration leaves. And we understand that this is not tolerable in a just society that must protect the most vulnerable people just when they need it most. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am finished borrowing the powerful words that women victims of vicar violence have expressed in the report that have brought us here: "You are the right people to see and speak. You are responsible for the creation of policies, aid, protocols, laws. You are the ones who have accepted to be public characters and work for each one of us, you are the ones who have the power of what we lack. We only offer our information, which has happened to us in our cases to help change things." Ladies and gentlemen, it is not necessary to tell them that this "you" is what we are all talking about and each of the Members and Members sitting on the seats of this Parliament. And we're not at a request, we're faced with an ethical and moral imperative: to protect and help victims of vicarous violence. That is why I ask you, beyond what is usual in this Parliament, which is the political differences, today you can unanimously leave this bill, which is not a proposal for the law of the BNG, we believe that it is a bill by the Parliament of Galicia to give to women who suffer the most cruel and twisted violence of machoism the answer they ask us to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I also wanted to begin by transferring all our respect to Mrs. Candia and also waiting for her to accept the apologies that were given to her yesterday for those statements. [[Applause]] And, starting with to deal with the bill that we are debating here today, we would have to contextualize and I think that no one will question that gender violence is the most cruel and humane manifestation of the secular inequality that exists between women and men; that has occurred throughout history in all countries and cultures, regardless of the social, cultural and economic level of the people who exercise it and also of the people who suffer it. So to combat any act of violence based on female membership, which has or may result in physical, sexual or psychological harm or harm to women, must be an obligation for any public administration. And the fact is that this Parliament in which we are today seems to understand it that way and that is something I think we should welcome. Since they started to compute gender-based violence data officially in the state -- and the data started on January 1, 2013 -- they were murdered -- as I say -- in the state 1,083 women already and 38 minors by their parents or their mothers' couples or couples, 38 minors, officially! One of those official victims was, by the way, Welsh who was murdered in 2017, which doesn't mean that we don't put a hand here at the fraternity and understand masculine violence as a global phenomenon -- that's -- and so we have to cut it so as well globally. As I say, this is since 2013, when the statistics began, but, of course, when the statistics started, and considering also that these minors who are part of those statistics are those who if you think they are victims of violence, either because they were killed along with their mothers or because they understood the context. But where are the rest of the victims, where are they? The other contexts and those before 2013, because we must look back as well, and the bill proposed today is also doing so, we must look back and recognize many other women killed and many others killed alive since the day they killed their sons or daughters. And I want to remind myself here, for example, of Margarita Dopico, that gale woman who in 2010 her ex-husband murdered her 14-month-old son and who, along with so many other women, has been fighting tirelessly for her recognition that she is also the victim of gender violence. Article 3 of the Istanbul Convention defines violence against women as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against women, and designates as such, and I read textually: "All acts of violence based on gender, which involve or may involve for women physical, sexual, psychological or economic damage or suffering, including threats to conduct such acts, arbitrary coercion or deprivation of liberty in public or private life." In fact, we have to, according to the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Combating Violence against Women, ratified by the Government of Spain, known as vicarious violence is one more form of violence, and I dare say, without wanting to make comparisons here, but I would dare say one of the most atrocious. Because gender violence not only occurs at home, but at all places where women interact and in all their social and relationship frameworks. From there we have to recognize, which is fair to consider as victims of macho violence these women who have suffered vicarous violence, that is to say, exerting themselves on a third person to hurt the woman. And who are those third people all the time, those third, weakest, most vulnerable people? The children, the children and the daughters. We must recognize as victims those women who have suffered gender-based violence in their skin and who will suffer throughout their lives for the absence of their sons and daughters forever. I was explaining Mrs Dopico in a statement in a media statement, she said and I think she expressed it very well, she said that murdering your son is the biggest harm they can do to you, that is to kill you alive. And so, the batterer does harm through other people, specifically children and children, because he knows perfectly well that harming them or murdering them is to make sure that the woman is never going to recover. It's the extreme damage. It is not the debate today, we know that it is not the debate today, but we will also have to speak in full detail in this Parliament about the possibility that batterers continue to see their children or their children. By nullifying this possibility, we would also be putting a stop to vicar violence, not to all of it, but to those who abuse children and daughters. Because, when children and children become an instrument of abuser in the face of the impossibility of being able to attack their mother by vigil for example a protective measure, they repeat almost-book behaviors, which are the instrumentalization of these children to harm mothers, for example not being negligent in care, delaying child deliveries, not being negligent neither in the hygienic during visits, manipulating children and children to watch or control their mothers, speaking negatively about them, with phrases like "if your mother wanted us all together" or "your mother wants them to put me in jail." Insulting them or resting them authority and often also temorizing children and children, and the worst of all: killing those children and children. Vicar violence is actually a form of ill-treatment towards women that conceptualizes daughters and children as objects to cast them against the woman to their senses, and that's what the batterer does. In his maximum expression, indeed, he assassinates them, but always before he verbalizes them, he expresses them, he expresses himself, a friendship already showing a creepy cruelty that what he does is paralysing these women. "If you leave me, I'll take your kids off. You're not going to see them anymore. You'll see what happens to them. I'll make them hate you." All of these are threats to which this vicar violence begins. By the way, well, a concept that now seems to be well understood by this documentary series that is now being launched, that there seems to be unanimity in recognizing the existence of that vicarous violence. Of course, in Galicia, of what we're talking about here today, that vicar violence is already recognized to receive some public help for these victims, but what we're talking about now is that this recognition is in the timely law, in that law against Galician violence, and it's already a conceptual issue in an unquestionable way. That's why, and I'm finishing up, of course we support this bill, which we expect you to go ahead, and if you can afford to improve it in that processing process, expanding and updating contexts, concepts, I hope it will. We also want to make clear the need for this legislative amendment to have a retroactive character. It's very important, we wouldn't understand that it wasn't. It's a matter of justice for all those women who continue, as we have said, to suffer this mistreatment that will sadly accompany them for the rest of their lives. And we also want to finish by saying here, we want to praise what in principle seems to be an agreement, as we understand in the media, I agree with what Mrs. Pontón said, too, which will be an agreement of the three parliamentary groups, which seems to us to leave out our dialectic confrontation and we will be united in what will undoubtedly be, if not enough, a breath for many of our women. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u33	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. February 1989, the Lérida Audience considered proved that the defendant -- the businessman Jaime Fontanez -- played the girl in the chests and gulped them over the clothes and stated that, in exchange for access to her sexual desires, she would renew her work contract. Both the Lérida audience and a year later the Supreme Court -- which confirmed the judgment -- pointed out that the 17-year-old girl, who was a minifailist, could, if in any case innocently, provoke the entrepreneur Jaime Fontanez for her clothes. And this is the known judgment of the minifalda. November 2018, the campaign "Don't tell me how to dress!" ("Don't tell me how to dress myself") it comes in response to the recommendations of the Thai authorities not to dress provocatively and prevent sexual harassment during Songkran, the water festival that is held in New Year in Thailand. April 2021, 32 years after the judgment of the mini skirt and 3 years after the "Don't tell me how to dress!""""""""Mrs. Candia, with her clothes and the leopard look she had on Thursday," """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" It's not a spontaneous expression, without thinking, that has warmed his mouth, no. He read it, reflected it, wrote it, and then read it this individual in question. Today we are all Elena Candia, ladies and gentlemen. It seems a lie to anyone who continues to measure women by their dress, not to criticize their ideas, not to criticize what he has done, or what he has said, with political arguments or not. It's going to the easy chase, the sexist role. It's as machist as it is in the judgment of the minifalda. And what's most surprising is the response of socialist leaders. Mr. Caballero, far from condemning round and round, without conditions or any such kind of comment, said that, well, beyond an unlucky comment. That's not lucky! He asked the People's Party not to manipulate, and Mr. Thomas himself also spoke of perverse manipulation. They apologized late, bad and the trail, and Mrs Díaz now too -- I appreciate her gesture -- but it was also timidly, she was able to take advantage of the moment of round condemnation that Mrs Pontón had made, and as we did so much by the Members and Members of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, whom we applauded, and the Socialist Party came under her head, Mrs Díaz. The truth is they had a magnificent opportunity today to show their sisterhood to a woman [[Applause]] I missed the women of socialism, I missed the offended Carmela Silva, who so feminist looks and so feminist says she is. The truth is that this feminist lobby of what socialist women sum up, I missed it too, but I appreciate the round and powerful repulsiveness of other women. Mrs. Rodil's line on the nets and perhaps some more than now, I feel like I haven't read it, but I also appreciate Mrs. Pontón's loud and powerful rejection. Look, Mrs. Díaz, the truth is that in the Socialist Party they have the level of commitment to very low equality, they have to increase their level of feminism, at least to the level of what they pray for. In this House we have even seen a Member question some women, their professional trajectory for being the woman of. The truth is that they really need a little training in this area. But this matter, ladies and gentlemen, will serve us to reflect on the debate we have now. Because the core of gender-based violence is in the lack of respect for women, in the violation of the principle of equal treatment, in women's disdain for being a woman, the control mechanism on their way of acting, about their way of thinking and also about their dress. That control that men exercise over women, because they don't want them to dress provocatively to provoke other men or to be beautiful, because they are their property, they are their possession. Of course this matter is important, of course it is very important how women should dress, because we have to have the freedom to think, act and dress as we want and no one can discriminate against us and no one can criticize us for going the way we want to go, one way or another. That's the heart of gender-based violence. [[Applause]] BNG is proposing to reform Law 11/2007 today, of July 27, article 3 with the various forms of gender-based violence, and incorporate violence as a further form, in addition to psychological violence, physical violence, economic violence, sexual abuse, harassment and trafficking in women and children for exploitation. When a man threatens a woman with a "if you abandon me, I'll take away your children," he's already resorting to violence against that woman, it's vicarous violence, which consists of causing pain to the woman in the people he loves most; usually the children and daughters, but there are also other people who give their familiar surroundings to those whom the woman wants and who also know that they are vulnerable in that area, and who also harm those people in the direct family. And so we are in favour and we are going to support this initiative, of course, and we also believe it is important to introduce this form of violence into the Galician legislation, and once again Galicia will be a pioneer, once again Galicia because it will be up to the Istanbul Convention, and already in 2007, when we pass this law, it has already introduced forms of gender violence that subsequently included the Istanbul Convention, and today we are going ahead... I don't know why Mrs. Díaz said no; yes, Mrs. Díaz, in 2007. It's not a law of the People's Party, it's a law in which the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block ruled, I'm not setting any medals, I'm setting a medal for this Parliament and high-ranking politicians at that time... because, look, we've always supported the legislative initiatives that were a step forward for women, the difference between other parties, who voted not because they put a health cordon every time they made a proposal in the area of equality for the People's Party. I am very grateful that he now acts differently. I've been saying that for many years. Well, once I admit to processing this text, Mrs. Pontón, I think it's important that we have to make some changes. You in your text ask for a retroactive character to the law, ask for those effects to be also on all issues, on all resources that affect women. I think it's important to do punctuations, because in practice things are sometimes different. - Then I'll tell you. -- This matter, despite being agreed to in the State Pact, which has been signed for four years now, and three years ago, Mrs. Díaz, who is ruling the Socialist Party in Madrid, and should develop the State Pact, and the Spanish legislation does not recognize the mothers of minors murdered by their parents, nor the direct family members of women killed by gender-based violence as victims of vicar violence. But if the minors, children and children of victims of violence have been victims of violence since 2015, the Junta of Galicia implicates them in the orders of aid and grants to provide them with the necessary resources as victims of gender-based violence. So through the orders of the Galician Union if they're being given all the support they need as victims of gender-based violence. Therefore, without a specific autonomous legislation or a state regulatory framework, in Galicia if we guarantee victims of vicarous violence since 2015, considered as victims of gender-based violence, all the assistance and services in our competition associated with this consideration. I told you, Mrs. Pontón, that we want to make some killing. For example, we want to go a little further; besides the children and daughters, we will amend and propose that also the direct relatives of the victims of death due to vicarious violence and related to the second degree of consanguinity to the victim of gender-based violence have that consideration. And he also said that we should be careful about how we write this, because this amendment of law must also be subject to the regulations governing each resource or provision, since it is not possible to allow access to any family member to all resources and benefits available to victims of gender violence. For example, a man cannot enter a foster home. I think it is important that these issues be taken into account. So we in this sense -- and also in the field of retroactive character -- also, we believe it is important that we value the possibility that these women and children -- as it was said to you -- are being recognized and beneficiaries of aid and services since 2015, so we could contemplate the retroactive effect as from the adoption of this law in 2007. Well, we, too, ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, ask that they support and support the demands we make to the Central Executive of a regulatory framework that covers women victims of vicarious violence and recognize them as victims of gender-based violence in order to enable them to access the state resources they have at their disposal. And so approve it in the law of Galicia, as well as the direct relatives -- as it said -- that we will incorporate an amendment of up to the second degree of consanguinity that the circumstances support them. I want to finish as soon as I finished another debate that we had recently about the amendment of the law of Greece to introduce important issues that benefit women and that promote full equality. I think it is important to continue to take steps until the full achievement of equality. These steps I think it's important that we all give them together, equality has to be a meeting place, not an ideological trench. And the basis of the great achievements is in the consensus, the more we participate in these consensus forces we will make so that no one ever questions progress in the field of equality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u35	Well, in a very brief way, I want to thank the unanimous support of all groups. To thank the spokesperson for the Socialist Group, because I believe we agree with the vision that we are at a time when it is very important that we improve protection. And of course there is a debate that has already taken place in this House about what treatment the batterers have to have in relation to children and children. In fact, there are already some conclusions we sent to Congress that we think that when there's a situation of abuse, because it's obvious that a batterer is not a good father and that, therefore, what must be primal is the right of minors not to be assaulted. And in that direction, therefore, all the collaboration and willingness of the BNG to work because, indeed, we have a debate there that I think is very deep but that is also necessary. Because behind the cases we're talking about right now and the situation we're talking about, because it's also the failure to properly heed the beginning of violence and cut that root relationship. And that's exactly one of the issues where it's important to move forward, although we know that this is a debate that's going to have its complexity, but of course, I think we also have a point of union. I would also like to thank the spokesperson for the Popular Parliamentary Group. I think the law is clear enough, because it is obvious that the one who is protecting is the women who live this situation. In any case, I believe that all contributions to add greater protection to welcome are, and this initiative is always presented with a constructive spirit. I know that today there are many women who in the immense pain they feel will be comforted because they see that in Galician Parliament we meet their demand that we hear the desperate situation they have, the needs that remain. And let this law be one more step to fight against macho violence and to hold women by hand who think they are living a situation by which no one should happen but which, once produced, we must be by their side. I want to thank you for this support and I think it's a good day, because it's important that we continue to fight against macho violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] We proceed to vote on the proposal for a Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block for Reform of Law 11/2007, of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence. Vote on the proposal for a Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block for the Reform of the Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. The adoption of this bill is therefore approved unanimously, and it will continue its parliamentary process. We continue on the agenda, with point 3 of appearances. Like Mr. Health Adviser, on his own request, to report on the evolution of the incidence of the pandemic in Galicia in relation to the epidemiological and care situation and the progress made in the Greek vaccination plan against covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u37	To make this appearance you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u38	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. I compare my own request in this plenary to tell you about the situation of the pandemic and the vaccination process in Galicia, and thus continue with the Government's commitment to transparency in the management of the pandemic. Since the last appearance there were only two plenary sessions and at that time we called prudence, a very careful question, but which, nevertheless, we must not cease to reiterate from all political and social spheres. So we were talking about positive data: the cumulative impact, the positivity, the incomes... and now, three plenarys later, the situation is still good, so we want to thank all the Greeks and the Greeks for their efforts to comply with the prevention measures that allow us to speak today about stable data in Galicia regarding the evolution of the pandemic. The situation in Galicia is better than that in almost all autonomous communities, and in order for this to continue to be so, we must continue with the prevention effort, which, as you know, we cannot yet relax. And on this line, I want to thank you again -- as I said -- the behavior of the general population, but also of health care -- both primary care and hospital services -- and, of course, preventive medical services and in the territorial heads-up, the entire structure of case follow-up. And, of course, also the members of the Clinical Committee, who weekly, out of their hours of work, make an effort to rigorously analyze Galician situations in order to protect the Greeks and the Greeks, and make proposals in that appropriate sense. Right now we have an accumulated incidence of 14 days that represents less than half of the Spanish average. Our incidence is 75.3, when the last time I showed up was 201, so our efforts give off their fruits, as you can see. These figures wouldn't be important if we didn't move them into the lives of the Greeks; that lower incidence translates into fewer infections, less sick and, therefore, less deaths. One of the most important figures is the mortality rate. Even though we can't help but lament about each of those lives of the Galicians and the Greeks who left us as a result of the pandemic, those nearly or exactly 2,369 Greeks and Greeks who died, to whom we naturally transferred the utmost respect and affection to their relatives and close relatives. He said, despite this number of dead people, not least important are all those people to whom the work of our health care workers have been able to save. Galicia is the autonomous community with a lower mortality rate since the pandemic lasts, on the peninsula, 85.2 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Today the cumulative incidence of Galicia at 14 days is in far less than half the Spanish average, which I was saying before, 75 versus 199 of the Spanish average; and 7 days is almost in a third, 40 in our case, compared to 112 of the Spanish average. And by adding some more data, also at the positivity rate in the last 7 days, we record a value of 2.21 % positivity. If we pick up the data from Thursday 18, just before the St. Joseph Bridge, the incidence accumulated in Galicia was 74 and 36, respectively, 14 and 7 days. And today -- as we say -- it's in those almost equal values, 75 and 40, while on the national average the incidence of 14 days rose by 55% and by 7, by 85.2. In that sense, it seems that Galicia's behavior in that sense was good. We are, of course, continuing to follow up on the contacts of positive cases, together with specific recruits that take place as a result of the situation in certain sectors or municipalities. So, from April 2 to 8, we carried out more than 48,000 diagnostic tests without counting, as always, those that we do for saliva pooling, which is not in the statistics of the ministry. And between the 6th and 9th of April we have a total of 35,139 people in municipalities where we were concerned about the incidence and where we have detected gromos, in addition to having quoted for this same week more than 47,800 Greeks, in particular, in the area of the Coruña, in the neighborhoods of Ventorrillo, Castrillón, Matogrande, Os Mallos or Labañou; or in the municipalities of Boiro, Pantón, Ribadeo, Barreiros, Monterrey, Carballeda, O Grove, la Illa de Arousa, Ribadumía, Catóira, Vilaboa or Vilanova de Arousa. I repeat, they are organized for this same week according to this epidemiological situation mainly of the municipality. We will continue, of course, with the kids in the residences, where, thanks to the priorityization of the vaccination of their health care workers and the realization of weekly seizures at these centers -- and even two weekly recruits on occasion -- today we can say that we have no positive user, which has to be a very good news for all. In this sense, we've made ourselves a new goal, which is to put a PCR test at the disposal of the Greeks whenever they need it. And that's why we want to extend to all of Galicia the agreement we signed initially with the Official College of Pharmaceuticals of Pontevedra. We're going to renew that agreement with them, and we're also going to develop it for the Coruña school, and there's already the contacts started with Ourense and Lugo to extend it to the entire autonomous community. In this way, the Greeks will be able to go to your pharmacy to request a PCR saliva test, which will then be processed by pooling method, as you know, and will take this material to your home, they will do the self-registration and deliver it to the next day at the same pharmacy office, where that reception will be processed and referred to the reference laboratory where it will be analyzed. We believe that in this way citizens will be able to have a test at their disposal, if they need it, and the results that will be obtained will have all the guarantees of the Greek health system. Today there is also a start in the pharmacies of Pontevedra and also in the following days in the Coruña, for children and children between 12 and 17 years of age, with the aim of detecting asymptomatic cases in the back to classes after Holy Week. As far as these agreements are concerned, there have been 41,332 tests, in this case of CRP, of which 79 positive results have been obtained. In addition, last March 26th, we also started the seizure at the airports of Greece, infrastructures competition from the central government, but which we consider essential to shorten cases that may arrive in Galicia from other places. First it was Alvedro, then Lavacolla and, finally, Painter. Since that date in the corresponding health areas, a total of 2,309 antigen tests have been carried out in this case, resulting in 6 positive patients who were later confirmed by PCR. We are very pleased, because this detection of these positives allows us to shorten future groars that, as we see these days, [...] cases can give and in the detection of a case causes the multiplication of them with the consequences that we all know. I reiterate and ask the people to come again when they are called to one of these slaves that I have just listed, mainly for social responsibility, their own care interests, their loved ones, and also for that social responsibility which I believe must be something of a priority at this time. Any citizen can now see the consequences in addition to the health care that it can carry out not acting with such caution. We see how a few cases involve the perimeter closure, the closure of the hostel, the income and, unfortunately, the deaths. That's why we insist on the prompt detection of cases and the enforcement of measures, that compliance not only interrupts the transmission chain of viruses, but also prevents action on certain territories that we don't like. Today's data on the residential situation is also better, although while there's an income or a patient in the ICU, or a death of course we won't be satisfied. Still, by the end of February we had 146 people in a critical unit, and today we have 29; this is 88.58 percent less than in the peak of the third wave. And in the hospital beds right now we have 156 cases and we saw those 547 that we had, 87.11% that we had in that peak of the wave, where we had 1,210 people entering the Greek hospitals. We are also the autonomous community with a smaller percentage of beds occupied in critical care, with a very wide difference from the Spanish average, which is 21.57, being the Greek percentage of 3.47 to the present day. Today Galicia has an epidemiological situation, as we have just commented, which allows us to go down the restrictions, having today only 3 municipalities with perimeter closure: the Poor of the Caraminha, Carballeda de Valdeorras and The Grove. As I said, we can see on a weekly basis how these new groms change the situation of each Greek council under the criteria set by the clinical committee. The speed of decision-making -- to insist that we make decisions now even with cumulative impact at 14, but also with cumulative impact at 7 when its multiplied value by 2 goes to the levels of action -- and said that this rapid performance of the public health team, along with the health areas, allows this situation, or it is allowing these situations to be shortened so far and the municipalities, once the good epidemiological situation has been recovered, can reopen their facilities, their circuits without these limitations. This rapid action must also be added to the campaign to strengthen the enforcement of health measures against the safety of the staff of the Directorate-General for Public Health, which we have already talked about and which, given its results, we have decided to extend more to maintain them during this month of April. As we have already done, the aim of the campaign is to check the implementation of the prevention measures against cowardice and advise the owners on their compliance. Since February, when it was put into operation, a total of 11,790 visits were made, of which 5,733 correspond to restoration sites, 3,950 to food stores and 1,647 to sports facilities, among others. As you know, this campaign has a purely informative objective and, although 3,223 non-compliances were detected, the measures taken in most cases were time-consuming in order to correct these deficiencies. And only in 11% of the cases other measures have been taken. In recent weeks, a special effort has been made in the host sector to be able to move forward in the Safe Hostage Plan. Thanks to the commitment of its owners, those we want to thank for their efforts to adapt to the current measures, and also to the customers, who work together with the same commitment and allow us to analyze now the improvement of opening hours in this sector, at the meetings that we regularly hold -- we say -- with the sector. In order to be able to extend the opening hours of the restaurants, and I speak exclusively of the restaurants, in addition to the effective measures relating to the control of the shelters inside and outside, are currently being evaluated the existence of a reservation or a prior quote, the customer register promoting the use of the Passcovid application, in addition to the ventilation of the sites, since the evidence leads us to think that the greatest transmission of viruses occurs, as you all know, through the aerosols. For this purpose, the installation of CO2 meters is intended as a requirement for opening restaurants in this direction. So, I was saying, we've continued to advance in the safe opening of all sectors, working among all of them to curb the spread of the virus. Regarding the vaccination process, the advance of the Greek vaccination plan, the results can be checked by you in the report published daily by the Ministry of Health. Today Galicia has a percentage of administered doses of 93.2 % of those it received. We are the second autonomous community according to the doses administered, only under Extreme and the Autonomous City of Ceuta. The Galician Union is also working in the post at the disposal of all Greeks on a web page where you can consult all the data on vaccination in our community, and we also have the recent mandate of Parliament in that sense. That's why this same week through the Health Council website this data may be available to anyone who wants to consult them, including the ongoing vaccination campaigns and the age groups that affect them. This data can of course be downloadable, just as it can be done with the rest of the information the web site has about the evolution of the pandemic. Today in Galicia we can say that we have completed the vaccination of the residents' users and workers, also administering the elderly who incorporate that vaccine into the centers, as well as to all the health personnel. In addition, vaccination was also given to Home Help Service staff, juvenile centers, day centers and psychiatric centers. We also administer at least the first dose to the children's, primary and secondary education staff, to the State Security Forces and Corps. We also started home vaccination of large dependents over 80 years of age, of whom we have already taken 92.5% of our target target population. And I'm saying we're now working with those over 80 who couldn't get close to the health centers -- as you know, it was our bet in the case of the vaccination of the older 80s -- as well as at the same time we're still vaccinating the age groups 75-79, in some case we can already go down in some population, in some case due to a mistake and now intentionally, under 75 years. And of course also to groups of 60 to 69, adapting the vaccination criteria according to what is of course establishing the National Vaccination Strategy. The priority of the German Government was at all times the most vulnerable people facing the pandemic, our largest, especially, as you know, the residents' users and our front-line health personnel. Today we have vaccinated, as I said, all residents. A few months ago, I was coming up with a question in this Parliament that the results were already beginning to see when this decline was reflected in the curve of contagion and hospital income. Those definitive results we've seen for 21 days, when we've stopped accounting for infections among the users of the larger centers, results that we've obviously expected to continue to maintain. We also hope that it will happen as soon as possible with the Welsh and Germans over 80, a group in which we have vaccinated, as I said, 92.5% of the population. In this regard, since the Health Council we have signed an agreement with the Research Group on Vaccines and Infections of the Foundation Institute for Health Research in Santiago de Compostela, the IDIS, to carry out a scientific research and analysis of epidemiological information and the application of vaccines in Galicia. And we already have the first conclusions regarding the effectiveness of vaccines where a reduction in the positivity of the virus is estimated at 47% with the administration of a single dose and 88% when the two doses are received. This is data from our residences in this case. Good news when, as I said, our priority is to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population from this serious infection. To continue the vaccination of older 80s, last week they made calls again to be able to summon all those who either refused the vaccine at the first moment -- there are 6,000 Welsh and Welsh over 80s who voluntarily refused the vaccine; I repeat, they were called back to offer it again -- and also some people with whom it was not possible to contact for lack of contact phones where we could contact the patient. From considering this vaccination more proximity to this age group, Sergas designed a device to be able to vaccinate children under 80. There were no instructions on the analyzed vaccination processes that included standards and protocols for the conformation and organization of vaccination teams, as well as specific protocol for vaccination in outer spaces. With regard to the latter, the location requirements, the characteristics to which the site should count, as well as its equipment and also the procedure to carry out, before, during and after vaccination, were included. In order to ensure the proper functioning of these major vaccinations, a pilot test was carried out, as you know, first in the City of Culture, in Santiago de Compostela, on 11 March, for the 50-55-year-old group, which at that time was the group to which AstraZeneca vaccine was indicated, and March 13 on the 14 vaccination points available throughout Galicia. These evidences, we believe, have been satisfactory, have been successful and, of course, the corresponding adjustments have been made to the result of the experience. So we were able to test the massive vaccinations that took place between 6 and 11 April last week, in which 165,000 Welsh and Welsh were cited in the age groups of 60 and 65 in one case, and 75-79 in another case, and those that came about 83%. I would like to highlight the specific participation in the group 75-79 years, where that figure has reached 89% of participation. To launch the massive vaccination points, we have 109 nurses who attended an average of 1 patient every 2 minutes. We have to continue to thank the magnificent work that all the professionals who make up the vaccination teams have done, with great effort since the first day, that December 27th, in which we started the vaccination of the residences. The citation for these massive vaccinations is carried out through short text messages, SMS, which include geolocation with the location of the point where you are given the vaccine, the time and day of your appointment, as well as a QR code to make your arrival more agile. In the case of the age group between 60 and 65 years old, from the health areas, it proceeded to recommence at the end of the day to the non-attendants to be able to quote them in the following days. In addition, for the age of 75, together with the text message he was counting, he also made a call through a machine, a robot on which he was asked to confirm his assistance and, if he did not get an answer through this procedure, he proceeded to make a personal call on the part of the citation teams. I'd like to remember and make a point here that if someone has any doubts, because he thinks he's got a text by mistake or that he's been deleted or whatever situation there might be, he can consult either through the phone numbers of health centers appointments, or from the Sergas Mobile app the appointments he has pending, where his appointment for the vaccine will also be recorded. It's located there. I repeat, both in primary care and in the Sergas Mobile app. Last week, in addition to the incidence phones for more than 80 people we had in each health area, we launched telephone 881002021, for any incidence that occurs in any other vaccination group, as well as to be able to transfer the data from those people who reside temporarily in Galicia and thus be able to add them to our vaccination lists, because our intention is, of course, to vaccinate them as well. We are aware that in the first few days there were certain telephone saturations, but more personnel have already been included in order to be able to remedy this situation and to address the doubts of all citizens, since it is essential that we be able to provide the information needed and also ensure that all people have access to the vaccine. I want to thank all the special citation team, all the nursing staff, all the public health staff at the Health Council and also some professionals, sometimes not visible, who are those of the information and communication technologies, who allow these massive citations and the records of thousands of people taking that dose every day. And I also especially want to thank the municipalities where we are conducting these massive vaccinations, which are cooperating irreproachably, making our provision for both local police and civil protection devices, for the organization of these spaces. This week we are planning vaccination again at these 14 vaccination points of around 50,000 people in the case of population 70 to 79 years of age with Pfizer vaccine and, as I said, we will continue to complete the pending groups, especially as a priority for home administration for over 80 years and continue to vaccinate large dependents. In this way, we will use 34,000 doses of Pfizer to administer second doses, which are of course marked by administration of the first, around 20,000 doses for home vaccination, said for more than 80 and for large dependents, with which we will complete these 105,000 Pfizer vaccines that arrived throughout yesterday morning. In addition, we're going to use 35,000 doses of Moderna to start vaccinating Group 7 of the National Vaccination Strategy, which is that of people at high risk. We'll do it in parallel to the group of 70-79, as reflected in the strategy. In this way, we will primarily vaccinate patients in hospitals who are on dialysis, started yesterday even with some cases, and today they are taking that vaccination, and also with the users of day hospitals. From Janssen, as you know, we are expected to receive 8,500 doses tomorrow, which we are initially going to vaccinate at home; it seems to us that, perfectly entering the Ministry's strategy for this type of vaccine, we feel it appropriate to take advantage of them, as I said, at home right now. And from Astra-Zeneca we have planned for the moment the arrival of only 7,500 vaccines this week, which will allow us to carry out a massive vaccination of 15,000 people in the 60-65 group this very weekend. In this sense, we expect all health areas to have nursing shifts, with weekly programming that, although at the moment the dose is irregular, if we receive a larger number of vials, you can activate and summon that population as soon as possible to that massive vaccination. I'd like to take this opportunity to send a reassuring message, especially to those essential workers who received the first dose of the Astra-Zeneca vaccine as they are working to make the best decision at the Vaccine and the International Council. In this sense, we will also review how to proceed with dentistry students, which according to the National Strategy must be included in the vaccination plan, but that this change at the age limit of Astra-Zeneca is causing us to change the deadlines for now. We also know that there were problems of citation with the mutualist people, of whom Sergas had not computerized his data and had to integrate that information with the data provided by each other and which on one occasion caused us dysfunctions. But we're solving and incorporating the data of all the incidences that are detected and, in addition, I remember the put into operation of that phone I was saying before, which allows you to report any errors and, if a person notices that he is vaccinating his age group and has not called him, then of course he has accessible. Thanks to the forecast in the logistics organization in the development of the Greek vaccination plan, on Sunday we had 546,630 people vaccinated, 23.1% of the population, and this week, as I said, we could administer 138,500 vaccines, so we'd end up with an estimate of 685,130 vaccinated, of course, with the doubt of the percentage of people coming to that quote. If that were the case, we would end the week with 29% of the already vaccinated population, obviously discounting minors who are not part of the Danish population at the moment. I repeat, 29% of the population at the end of this week. Waiting for the numbers of new contagions to decrease gradually, we should think about the care of patients who have already passed the infection. As I went forward in my previous appearance, we created the post-covid units to be able to offer those 114,168 Greeks who have overcome the disease with specific attention to the sequelae that the virus left them. It has already approved its functional plan and is made up of the coordinators designated in the seven health areas; the next step is to contact all the Welsh and Welsh people who have passed the shed and who have not been hospitalized, because hospitalized people are usually already contacted by the units. So first, this week, a telematic training will be carried out for primary care professionals, which will then be available in a different way via the YouTube channel of AFIS, which will focus on the operation of the units and also on the questionnaire that will be sent to all patients regarding their sequels. Primary care, which will be part of these units, will be the first contact of the patients, who have already followed at the moment, and will propose the special follow-up of those patients who need to be cared for by this multidisciplinary team. I take advantage, since yesterday's Primary Care Day was celebrated, to thank all the professionals who are part of this collective for their work, their efforts, especially in recent months. They are a fundamental and indispensable part of the health system and especially in the management of the shed. Another consequence of this pandemic on health will have to do with mental health. As you know, we have a mental health plan that has already incorporated the post-covid reinforcement forecast of these services in Galicia. Recently, there was unanimous agreement in this Parliament to complete the first 120 squares of this plan before the end of 2021. Well, I can forward to you that, before the end of this month, the Board of Directors will be able to inform Sergas's consent to the seven health areas for the convening of all these 120 squares, to complete and allow this year's primary care liaison program to be in operation for all areas, suicide prevention programs for all areas, socio-sanitary psychiatric care reinforcement programs in residences also in all areas, the four juvenile day hospitals (one per province), the three mental health units in Coruña, Santiago and Vigo, and the psycho-geria unit in Ourense. At the same time, it is in the process, which is only pending in the report of the Juridical Counsel, a decree to reform the current bodies for the prevention of suicide in the health areas, to create a register of autolytic attempts to enable data on the incidence and prevalence of these attempts, as well as their determining and associated factors. So on this subject, too, we have fulfilled parliamentary mandates, fulfilled the plans in force, and met the needs that the pandemic will generate in the attention and care of the mental health of our population. We've also launched a new Sergas Mobile app, a more intuitive app to make it easier for citizens to access their health information, improve the request for appointments, etc., in addition to being able to advance on videoconsult how it improves the audience of telephone attention. The APP also allows access to East-Saúde, where the Union will make available to the Greeks a certificate of its vaccine, with the information of the vaccine and also of the diagnostic tests to which they have been submitted. In this way, in advance, we are prepared before the issue of the digital green certificate, promoted by the European Union, which will be common throughout the European territory. So, when there is a technical possibility of replacing them with green certificate, we will have all platforms and circuits to be able to integrate our certificate in a much easier way. So we're moving forward in all the measures we've committed to, not only about the management of the pandemic, but also about the entire health system. Finally, Galicia now has a good situation in all areas of the pandemic, epidemiological care and we also have a positive step forward in the vaccination plan. We will continue to work so that Galicia will continue to maintain this situation and we will gradually be able to improve it, mainly in terms of the common goal of eradicating the mortality figures of the virus and regaining social and economic normality. That is why I reiterate my sincere request for compliance with the measures, responsibility for assistance to the refugees and commitment to come and receive the vaccines. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u39	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups, Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u40	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. You moved here today some ratings, it's true that very often in some things, very in detail. From our point of view, it often happens that the details of the debates end up being more protagonists than the global issue. It's true that if we talk about things so much about the pandemic, we end up talking about things almost always very small details of day-to-day operations and it's true they're important and they're okay, but, from our point of view and besides, as we don't have as much time as the advisor has to do the exhibition, we just want to give a more global view. In terms of epidemiological and pandemic data, it's true that the situation is more controlled than it's been a long time ago, it's true that we paid for the mistakes made during Christmas or that Christmas saving campaign, and it seems we've now learned and the arrival of vaccines contributes to a possible fourth wave being in any case smaller; never despicable, never ceases to worry but less, and that's an achievement. For that, it's also important to be aware of global issues, and allow me to discuss also a little bit of how we deal with health from the political point of view with the pandemic, and the health issue. You didn't make any allusion, I understand it, but I'll make it myself. We're not going to be Taliban on such essential issues as the state of alarm. And I ask the People's Party that, while he's been tearing down for weeks and months, saying genuine barbarities -- Mr. Feijóo included -- with the state of alarm, don't start doing a campaign now saying that it's necessary to recover the state of alarm, because his position with the state of alarm seems very easy but very sad. They're waiting to see what's going to happen and you're not. [[Applause]] I hope we don't need to extend it; if it had been extended, it would have been done. By the way, nobody wants bad data, nobody wants us to have to have a new alarm state again, but if we had to have it you would be against, and that's what can't happen. Secondly, we believe it is important to share some data in addition to the smaller data or in terms of detail. For example, there are autonomous communities that share data in a much clearer way. I've heard here once: put me an example of a community; Asturias, I can see the Asturias data to a detail that I can't see from Galicia, I can download Asturias data to a detail that I can't do with Galicia, I can compare series to a level that I can't do with Galicia. And I think there's no problem, because they're computerized, it wouldn't be a problem. Third question on the pandemic: guilt. It was a problem for students -- even though the kids then said it wasn't like that -- that the infections in the university cities were spread, it wasn't. It was the burden of the lodgers, it wasn't. Now it's the fault of people who go to the bars as soon as they open up, which is not the case. By the way, allow me to disagree, not long ago the hostel was opened a few weeks ago and it took this Government two hours to make a criticism of the hostel as soon as it opened. The day before, there were members of this Government inaugurating bars. Let's be sensible about things. Now agglomeration is the fault of citizenship, it was also the family's Christmas. To see if ever guilt is not necessarily anyone's fault, but at least not to throw it away to the others, which we believe is important. And one last thing that has to do with the pandemic and also with the vaccination process: we have a data management problem; it's good that we have people, of course it's necessary, with people dedicated to the data process because it's complicated. But we have problems, there are about 90,000 people in Galicia who are out of the nails and who are staying for now -- they won't stay at the end -- outside the vaccinations, like the mutualists. And we have a problem, because it's no longer a matter of prioritizing some groups about others, but there are people who are getting out of their groups, and we can't do that. About vaccination, and you spoke less, though you mentioned some important things. We about vaccination what we want to highlight is that if we are globally very satisfied with vaccination in global terms, we do, despite all the discrepancies that can be made and all the attacks that also suffer vaccination in this chamber. We do, Counselor, why? For in this tendency to make a little more global vision, let me be too abstract it may be, that a year ago, a year and a little, in an indefinite Chinese market, a virus has appeared that has changed our lives completely. A year later, by putting a data on, it might be less-than-the-counter, a year later, we're vaccinating a person who lives in a remote place in big cities, at any point in the Galician mountain without having to pay an extra cost and with all guarantees, and that's a success of a health system that, beyond the daily debate in which we're often discussing things and making small stream wars, you have to put it in value. And this is the state of well-being. Today there are people threatened in their lives by a virus that has appeared thousands and thousands of miles away, and it's not known that the health system is putting a vaccine on them, and that's a collective success, not ours, not of any one we're here, but of decades of work of a state of well-being. Valla for when talking to the joy of the state of well-being cuts, that's the state of well-being, we saved lives today in less than a year with an impressive guarantee. And that's why we are in favour and we want to defend the state of vaccination, with criticisms, with improvements, yes, of course, yes, but there is a scenario now that without science, without public health and without investment in research there would not exist, and we believe it is important. Because here it was argued that if vaccines didn't arrive as they had to arrive, they arrived and arrive, that's why we now have better percentages, but that's why reading isn't in percentages about the total population, because we're vaccinating the groups in Galicia that are bigger, the problem is the vaccines that are unputable. But I'm going to that now. They arrive, and arrive to the extent that they have to arrive, and arrive with respect to their Danish population, despite the fact that here they said the opposite very cheerfully. We'll be vaccinated, at least 70% of the population by the end of the summer, which was discussed here, sometimes with rough words. We'll have many vaccines that arrived in December; here in Galicia, here in this gallery Mr. Feijóo said they would not arrive until April, four months late, according to his forecast. He arrived four months late [...] vaccines; he must have bothered him that they arrived so early. It's just here that you've come to criticize that the vaccines in Galicia came to Portugal, as if it were a problem coming along a road or another one, an airport or another was worse. So far we have come to argue, and we, against that and against those limited visions, against those frantist visions that all they want to do is build a story against others and blame others, we defend the process of vaccination as a collective success, a collective success, and that's what. [[Applause]] Spain today is one of the countries in the world that has the most vaccine, 7 million people already have some vaccine placed, some of the doses, I think it's about 3 million full. We are one of the countries of the world that is best vaccinating, with all the problems, with all the problems. Today we have a much higher level of vaccination than any other place, much higher and argue a lot about it. In Galicia we have to vaccinate more. It's okay with the data you've now reported and you've moved here, Counselor, that we've vaccinated more than 90%, more than 90% of the administered doses. And then I wonder, when, less than two weeks ago, the first trimester vaccination data said we had over 100,000 unadministered doses, what was the problem? Because we've finished the first trimester of vaccination with more than 100,000 doses. They arrived in Galicia a much higher number of doses than they were put in, there were more than 100,000 doses in refrigerators without putting on. So we're saving for a stock problem, in case there's a stock problem. It's funny, because it must be that there could be a stock problem last Wednesday but there isn't today, and we don't share that. Vaccinate very much, vaccinate very quickly, vaccinate well, this is the only strategy to follow, and it's not worth using excuses a day that doesn't go the next day. If it was worth the stock problem then -- it's never real -- it had to be worth it today. If today they're putting on a lot after having that terriblely negative data that we had at the end of March -- you've speeded up, well done -- ; if it was then, it had to be worth it today and, as it's not valid today, it's because it wasn't then, bad done in that first quarter. Against that the only thing that did perfectly well, always with a fantastic, wonderful measure, with a tremendous Italian fineness, was to discuss. This government is known to argue, they discussed everything; I, if I have one day opened the papers and I do not see Feijóo saying anything bad from the Government of Spain, then I am beginning to think that I escaped some page. Every day you're more concerned about finding problems than looking for solutions, and we think there's nothing else you can do than vaccinate. Those who were not placed to stand, the confrontations that were left for another time. Staff says Satse these days that they're neglecting those services because there's not enough staff, and we've said it from the beginning, more staff, why? Because it was going to be more personal, I think this has already been discussed, they've told us everything, I think it's already indisputable. Obviously, and that's good, it takes a lot of personal because there are many vaccines and even now the vaccination process is very wide, we need not to undress a saint to wear another one, not to catch a blanket that puts our feet off to cover our heads, that we can vaccinate with dedicated staff exclusively so that we are not neglecting other services, and that's why we need more personal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u42	That is the essential question. Ultimately, less excuses, less confrontations, more vaccination. This is what we want to move. And we do, we believe, the success of vaccination is a collective success, deeply collective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u43	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u44	...and that, despite what we can now discuss day by day, within a while we will look back and feel proud of the state of well-being and a public health system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u46	...for those who then intend to cut it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u47	By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, you have the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u48	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. We've spent more than a year with the Covid-19 pandemic, and at this point the fight against it remains a priority. Delay in vaccination, risks of a new rebound, paralysis, chaos in the administration of the Astra-Zeneca vaccine, constant changes in the groups to be vaccinated. It is clear that today, the great hope in the fight against the coward is massive vaccination, and the vaccination campaign began on December 27th, and it takes, therefore, more than three months, three and a half months and is unfolding with much more slowness than the Spanish Government had announced as well as the Government of the United States. The rate of immunization is far below the schedule, for various reasons, but it's behind the schedule. I'm saying this because every day the speech is being updated, but if we go to the hemero library we see what things you announced today that if they were going to do they would have announced that they were going to be made two months ago, I say that's a reality. And you here today spoke of a series of questions but you forgot some others. The first is that the Government of the People's Party, the President of the Union said repeatedly that he was prepared to carry out massive vaccinations, even he spoke of 100,000, only needed to arrive at doses, so the first question is why they had more than 100,000 doses for weeks and weeks and months without administration. Because today you came here to breast-feed saying that they were at the head of the state in number of doses administered, but until two days ago they were under the average and before they were at the last positions in vaccine administration, when, if you were collecting the data day after day, there were always more than 1,000 unadministered vaccines, specifically yesterday before the update there were 128,000 unadministered vaccines. The question is why these vaccines have not been administered, because every day that the vaccination is delayed continues to be infected and people die. So the vaccination of all available doses had to have been a priority and for the Government of the Union it wasn't for a very long time, and the data were there to contrast it. Nor did he mention that the administrations themselves are adding uncertainty to the vaccination process. I have to tell you that we attended atomic BNG to the disincentive in which the administration of the Astra-Zeneca vaccine was managed. We've seen how governments paralyze administration without relying on any known scientific data today. The Interterritorial Council, in which you are, and I have certainly not seen any discrepancy in the media about it, decided to paralyze the administration of Astra-Zeneca; therefore, it decided not to continue immunizing people, not following the indication of the EMA, neither of the World Health Organization, nor of the scientific community, but you made that decision by triggering an unwarranted alarm. And, of course, the question is, does it seem to you that the communication strategy that is followed by this subject is that it brings any benefit to the population or if it has any objective more than to alarm and cause more people to be afraid of getting vaccinated? So, I'm the first one I've ever asked you here today is to do an information campaign, explaining calmness to the population about, until today's known evidence, that this vaccine is as safe as any of the others to get that fear installed in a lot of populations, and you know it perfectly. Another question you haven't talked about, Counsellor, is that there's a state vaccination strategy, there's a Greek vaccination plan where group priorities are set by priorities. And you here today didn't say you're jumping it so quite to the tower. He said here they were going to start with the group 7; well, because in group 3 is the Home Help Service, and you here today dare to say that they are vaccinated and I deny you that all people are vaccinated, essentially women of the Home Help Service. A few days ago, the IGC reported that there were important groups of people in the Home Help Service who were not vaccinated, specifically in Vigo City Hall of 350 workers are only 10% vaccinated, yesterday this situation followed. And the information we have is that in big cities the situation is very similar, so I ask you to tell me what's going on or how dare you state here that they're all vaccinated when the information we have is not so. The big addicts are at point 4, and they're starting to vaccinate a few days ago those who are at home, that's yes, forcing the nursing staff to take over one more task, to go to their homes to vaccinate these big addicts without having the possibility to adjust their schedules or staff reinforcement, but in addition to everything they've already done. The 80s, Counselor, is that it's going to be tomorrow, we're going to finish for the week. The reality is, today, there are almost 20,000 without the first dose. And only 43.5% have two doses, when it was a hyperpriority group. And today in mid-April 43.5% did not receive the second dose; therefore, they are not fully immunized, despite being majority, just as people with very high risk conditions, as transplanted, effectively dialysis, people with cancer and you said they're going to start, on 30 March this group was updated in the State Strategy, the Galician Strategy continues to be unupdated since February 19, the Galician Strategy continues to be unupdated; I'm saying because you're coming here to suck for transparency, but Plan Galego and the Galician Strategy has not been updated since February 19. Then we have to trust what you say one day and then say the opposite to the next, but it's not updated for almost two months. In collective 3 there are health personnel, in which students from different health branches are included. Dentology students, who practice with patients, who also collaborate in the agreement that Sergas has to care for people with difficulties, yesterday manifested themselves in the streets of Santiago, were here in front of Parliament because they were not vaccinated, i.e. group 3, they will start group 7 and it turns out that this important group are not vaccinated. So, I'd like you to explain this error when starting a group, then we don't know how the same thing is going, start another one... that's right, the announcement of each group in headlines and the whole plan, but then and the follow-up of how those groups are going, of course, we don't know how it goes. [[Applause]] You said here that you are very grateful to the Greeks and the Greeks who made a great effort, the professionals made a great effort. I of course, here in the name of the BNG will say even more, a great effort. The health system is responding to the situation of the pandemic at the expense of the continuing and permanent overwork of professionals. They've all made a great effort, what you're about to know is where the Joint effort is to match that effort of both the professionals and the professionals. Primary care is framed, it was already framed before the pandemic, we've had a year of pandemic, and now the difficulties are multiplied. Some professionals who are giving not everything, but are giving more than they would be asking for. They're meeting the ordinary demand, the chronics, the acutes, tracking all the people who pass through the house, Mr. Counsellor, the large hospital in the shed are the homes that are cared for from primary care. Thousands of people cared for from primary care! [[Applause]] And now they also have to deal with the Vaccination Plan, at the expense of them, and that they do more and more work. That's why I tell you not to point out how well things are going in Galicia, because the point is not for you or for the Union, the point is for professionals and for the Greeks and the Greeks. For some professionals who are working at the parlor without any consideration on the part of the Galician board, who are not increasing staff paintings or strengthening. Look, so far, the instruction given by Sergas on March 3, some health areas were transferred to the professionals yesterday, Counsellor, yesterday! That instruction to know how to vaccinate, how to do it. Some sanitary areas were moved to yesterday and a few days ago, where it was established as this generalized planning and organization process in front of the massive arrival of vaccines. I mean, there'd be a time when a massive number of vaccines had been known for months, Counselor. How's the last time you're jumping out of your way doing this planning? I'd like you to explain it to the professionals who are at the limit and that only their exhausting involvement with the public health system justifies what they're doing. And then there's a question, Mr. Counsellor, that right now the epidemiological threat, of which you haven't said anything, are the new variants, new variants that are more contagious, that have been infected longer and therefore have more lethality and more viral load. Faced with this situation, normal would be updating protocols. Update of protocols starting with quarantines, which are 10 days old when the entire scientific community says it should be at least 14 days or more. That protocol update we do not know what is being done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u50	...we don't know, Counselor, that they're making any changes in this matter. Nor the subject of tracking, which is flagrantly improved, would I say tremendously deficiting in April 2021, a year later the pandemic and the tracking system is still a true pending subject. With which I would like you to answer what actions are being performed with respect to the new variant, which has different specificities and much more contagiousness, and therefore would need that update, and, as we know, it's not happening. At the moment nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u52	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. First of all, congratulations; congratulations, advisor, for appearing, for appearing your own request, and for always coming here with maximum transparency and bringing all the data and all the information. We are pleased that, in your opinion, you have just communicated to us, in our autonomous community, the pandemic situation remains good, and from the People's Group we have added these thanks that you have also expressed, to all the Greeks for the discipline in fulfilling the preventive measures, which are the ones that allow us to have these stability data in Galicia with regard to the evolution of the pandemic. And we also have to thank the board for your leadership, for the management you're doing in this health crisis, the biggest global health crisis that you remember in the last century. As we also have an infinite gratitude to the response of all the health personnel, the great effort they have made in these long months, often in extreme situations, it is true, but without sparing any effort, work that I think we will never thank you enough. And I want to comment here on a question for Mrs. Prado, who is around, who was making a fincapé in those thousands of patients who care at home, where better if you are when you are sick, thanks to the Telea system, that the Galician Health Service has been implanted for a long time. Counsellor, last week we had to vote on a BNG initiative that asked for more information in Parliament and citizenship, and it presented as if there was a problem with this, and today you are here in Parliament giving all the details, explaining by the boy and announcing that they were already preparing this specific website to give all the details to the citizenship of the vaccination process now that it has already opened up to the general population groups. Perhaps some groups that support governments that are sanctioned and repeatedly reprimanded by the Transparency Council, for refusing to publish information about their pandemic management, believe that all governments work like this. We know what the saying is: think of the thief who all are of his condition. We have a bigober in the state that constantly ignores the Council of Transparency. The Government of Pedro Sánchez dismisses, rebuts in the courts or simply ignores almost half of the resolutions of the Council of Transparency and good government. And I'm going to set an example of how it works in these issues: last January 22nd, the Socialist Government ceased the Deputy Director of Claims, the key post to resolve all citizens' requests that affect the various entities of the State. At that time he was in charge of Esperanza Zamora, known and respected by associations for access by the involvement in development and adoption in 2013 of the first Transparency Act in democratic Spain. The cessation of this professional has resulted in no public justification at all. Randomity, this may occur just after the Transparency Council, for example, supports the citizen's request to publicize the names of advisers who used the Ministry of Health in this pandemic, a fact that the Executive has consistently refused to approach, but which has been obliged to comply with Spanish health regulations. But, ladies and gentlemen, here we are in Galicia, and this Union of Galicia is not afraid of any transparency, and you know why? Because you have nothing to hide. Other governments prefer to keep hiding, and even stop those who demand information from them. Here's a stable, coherent government with most of them, which, as President Feijóo says, is only due to the Greeks. And this Government of the People's Party gives two rounds of press a week, and the president gives at least one round a week, while other presidents more than the taste of PSOE and BNG, can spend months and months without responding to the media, without anything happening, and no one says anything, no more. Because, Counselor, the pandemic doesn't go with the central government. All that has to do with the grotesques, the accumulated incidence, the hospital pressure, the restraining measures, all those things that cause so much suffering and so much pain, so unpleasant, that's the problem of autonomous communities. The Government of Spain has nothing to do with this. Frankly, after what happened when he tried to lead this process, we almost thank him for preferring to unwind. What's curious is that there's another part of the pandemic that the Government of Spain likes the most; when you have to talk about vaccines, even if it has nothing to do with their administration, there's always a picture to take, there's always a press round to give and a headline to put on. Mr. Sánchez considers that illness is the responsibility of autonomous governments, but not the cure, that cure is indeed his business. Impossible more cynicism! Fortunately in Galicia we know perfectly well that this is not so, and that, just as the Junta assumes responsibility and the cost of unpopular restrictive measures, it also assumes the responsibility of carrying out a process of vaccination adapted to the Greek reality, a process that, if it involves vaccinating in the city health centres of 2,000 inhabitants to facilitate reaching the top eighties, it is done, even though it assumes the penalization of getting out worse in statistics than other communities that have chosen to send all their seniors to vaccinate to large stadiums in cities. It's a process that, if it involves having to go to thousands of homes of older people, who say that they can't travel to the health center, because they're going to go as well. And the other day in Commission 5, the spokesman of the Socialist Party was wondering if the general director of public health was going to vaccinate a major was just that, that the major said he couldn't move. And the answer was yes, that here we don't need any sworn statement to help an older person get vaccinated. Here we have a government committed to that population, which is the one that has previously completed the vaccination of residences, and that will spare no effort in taking the vaccine home to the last largest in any place and parish in the province of Ourense, Lugo or anywhere in our community. That's why, Counsellor, this government is going to have the support of the People's Group, regardless of whether one week goes better or worse at ranking. Sadly, I also suggest that the opposition will never be pleased! They jumped to the media despising the management of Galicia's board on the first day they saw that Galicia didn't leave the best in the photo, but of course they didn't have the same speed to congratulate the Government every week Galicia left in this same photo leading the process. They've been waiting for anecdotes, they like the purpose of a case, like totally isolated incidents, on one of those 14 simultaneous mass vaccinations that were held in Galicia, and they've come to say the leader of the BNG, and I quote textually: "They involved a clear risk to the older people, who are one of the most vulnerable groups," anecdotal that was solved in a few minutes. That's irresponsible, it's alarming. I don't know what the Galego Nationalist Block wanted or Mrs. Pontón, I don't know; what I do know, ladies and gentlemen, is that health is the most important concern of citizenship. It's a very serious subject, and we can't afford that kind of comment on political leaders. You can't play with health. Yesterday we knew that participation in these vaccination processes this weekend was 90%. Fortunately, Galician citizenship does not listen to alarmists or negationists. Ladies and gentlemen, we are Spain's second community with more vaccines administered in health centers, and this is a reality, it's not to draw breast, to tell the truth, and fortunately our public health responds to that will of the population. I have to move you, Counselor, what many people tell me will be vaccinated, in an orderly process, in a quick process, coming in, they're vaccinated, waiting for those 15 minutes and going quietly. With great agility and impeccable care from the team of nurses, many of them specialists in family and community health. A specialty which, by the way, created this Government, and in the past legislate precisely Mr. Almuña came here to account for the creation of these squares of that specialty. And that news happened as if it didn't matter, and in a community like ours, these nursing specialties are very, very important. We also had some important news last week that we didn't talk about here, which was the public job offer, especially focused on the nursing. Of the more than 1,200 squares offered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u54	...650 -- I'm done -- I'm sick. But do you know why they didn't offer themselves any more? Mr. Torrado, the replenishment rate! Point, note! And therefore the Government continues to strengthen public health. And this reality that the opposition tells us wouldn't have anything to do with it, or from a distance, this pandemic wouldn't have resisted the reality that they're trying to move us here. Galicia has this data that I've exposed to today because it has a government that manages, that takes balanced measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u56	...is sensible. And now, Mr. President, saying that we fully trust the work of the Government and especially the Health Council to continue to control...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u58	...and improving the pandemic towards that common goal that is to improve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u60	...death figures and return to a state of social normality as well as health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u61	For the replica shift, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u62	President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to be able now to answer some of the questions that have been raised here. In general, thank you, as always, for the almost always constructive tone of the interventions. And I will try to clarify some of the doubts or questions raised in the various interventions. I'm going to start with those global issues that you said, Mr. Torrado. And I'm not going to talk about the state of alarm, because I think it's all said, but I'm going to talk about the tools. Autonomous communities need tools to manage a situation like this; not only Galicia, Galicia, Asturias, Basque Country and other autonomous communities need tools that I think we've been working with and, without falling into the excess of triumphalism, I think we've been allowed to be where we're up to now. Questions such as the perimeter closure of the municipalities, the limitations of bar schedules, all the tools we've used at this time I think were fundamental to being at the moment we're now. The question is after 9 May, what tools are we going to have? That's the big question, if you know the answer... we, of course, at the Interterritorial Council zero information on this subject even though we ask it repeatedly. And, as it's getting closer and closer, well, if you've got information, it's probably true, it's probably going to give you more than we do on the Interterritorial Council. And, of course, we are concerned about this question and of course we are discussing this with the Government, we have discussed this, we have discussed the recently published law establishing the use of mascarillas, a law a year ago, extemporaneous, in which the other day they wanted us to sign an agreement that says that in Galicia you can go down the street without mask; for obviously in that we are going to discuss, Mr. Torrado, and in other matters obviously not. When we are put on the table the situation derived from scientific information and evidence about the AstraZeneca vaccine, yes, Mrs. Prado, has come to the EMA, and he has read his report to the Spanish Medicines Agency as well. And based on that, on a precautionary principle -- that perhaps this is a concept that needs to be tested from time to time -- it has led us to consider not suspending vaccination with AstraZeneca -- which has not been suspended, at least this second time -- and whether to adapt the group of people to vaccinate that new derived situation -- I repeat -- of that precautionary principle. So, I'm saying, well, talking a little bit about the tools theme, it would be good if we had them and we were in that. We developed our law, which precisely contemplated those tools and, well, everyone knows how that law is right now. And you were talking about the information. I think I've already said that in my speech, totally in favor of information. True, we were hoping that the ministry website would cover that situation. As you well know, the ministry's website at vaccine level has already incorporated the number of residents vaccinated in Galicia and throughout Spain, where Galicia, of course, has been on number one weeks and weeks -- as follows -- and I've never heard -- I was right, Mrs. Friend -- no kind of comment about that information, very positive, by the way. And fruit -- as I said before -- of that wager from the Greek Government for prioritising residents and residents workers. And when a week ago the ministry was on its own and risk decided to publish the state of vaccination data -- it was Wednesday week of Holy Week -- just we had a meeting with the parliamentary groups, the president, and we were moving two issues that, well, they didn't understand well enough. They told the parliamentary groups that we were going to vaccinate throughout the Holy Week at primary care centers, because our goal was to complete the vaccination of the older 80s. I don't think anyone, not even Mrs. Prado, can say that on Holy Week, they didn't vaccinate their 80-year-olds in health centers; they continued on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, vaccinating Welsh and Welsh in primary care, which was what we agreed by common accord, by the truth, with scientific societies, professional schools, that everyone agreed that for this collective, the more than 80, the most appropriate place were health centers but nuanced, strengthening staff. Primary health centers have had staff reinforcements to vaccinate the 80-year-olds absolutely every day, and they're still having it right now. Those 200 nurses we hired, who were dedicated to vaccination at the age of 80, are larger; they're 10% of the primary care staff, primary care nurse. Stop saying it doesn't strengthen because it's not true, we strengthen primary care nurses, and we strengthen PSXs as well as 10%. Because all those calls to patients to go to health centers didn't make them either the nurse or the ordinary PSX, they made additional PSXs available for this process. And it seems like a lie that you don't know, and especially you, Mrs. Prado; I suppose you'll meet some of those PSXs who are dedicated exclusively to phone calling so that citizens can go to vaccination in primary centers. As I said, we bet on vaccination in primary centers, on proximity. And we told the parliamentary groups that after Holy Week there would be two massive vaccinations for group 60-65 and group 75-79. I don't know what part of this speech they didn't understand to talk about now that we have vaccines... you, Mrs. Prado, said we've been taking vaccines for months in the refrigerators! The only time that there were those vaccines in the refrigerators was on Holy Week -- I repeat -- because we prioritized vaccination -- and it's also that, it was as absurd as it is because the data from the vaccines we had in the fridge came out on Wednesday before Holy Week, curiously; but they went out published on Wednesday's website, they weren't before, and besides, they weren't on the web or in the fridge. We've been in Galicia for many months, for a long time, since December 27 doing what we're to do; besides, it's not worth this government is the credit of everyone, of the nurses you said, of the public health people, of the logistics people, of the whole world. By the way, Mr. Torrado, of the people who did logistics because, if you don't remember correctly, there was a very complex process coming from Guadalaxara. The first vaccination was done in Guadalajara because all of Spain's vaccines came in there and, of course, as we were already there we were going to do the first vaccination and the next day the vaccines enter the port. If the problem is not that they enter the port, Mr. Torrado, the problem is that they arrive at the storage site without anyone knowing about them and asking about another ship, for example. Well, that's what we complain about so that it wasn't like that, and I have to say it's fixed. Now they come by the port but in condition, but those early days did not come like this, Mr. Torrado, and besides waiting for them at the Padarnelo. Well, I said this, -- yes -- talk about guilt, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You were talking about guilt. Well, look, I think at this point -- maybe you do, but I think nobody doubts that young people are contagious at home -- maybe you think you don't, but then we can discuss it -- or no one doubt that in the house with the mask removed when you eat if you eat it, we say it, and we'll have to keep saying it; it's not a matter of blaming anyone, and saying the opposite is to deny reality. Let's keep going. And the other day when we talked about mass vaccinations in Compostela, because maybe if any of you had gone there as we were, we would have seen why that little -- that was small -- increase of people at first. Well, just because people, with all the good criteria in the world and probably with the best intention, came before the hour. What did we do? Well, putting in a previous filter and not passing through that second area of vaccination that people didn't have vaccine in the next hour, something as simple as this. From there we did it in every place and that problem, so our guilt and organization, and of being bad in the organization, so, look, it didn't happen again. To thank, of course, the Greeks and the Greeks who, in the presence of that message we moved that they were as close as possible to the time of vaccination, for we really have to say that it was fulfilled. Then they talked to each other -- I think -- about mutualists. As I said in my speech, mutualists have to make two separations. On the one hand, there are mutualists who voluntarily choose to attend Sergas each year when they choose. For those mutualists are vaccinated exactly in the same proportion as those who have the right to Sergas, 92% right now. I mean, there's no problem with the mutualists who chose Sergas service. And for those who haven't chosen Sergas service, 80% are vaccinated. It's a group of people where we don't have information in our databases that send us those corresponding mutuals, which makes a load process. Sometimes it's been our problem, that some phone doesn't move even if it's in the box when the translation is done doesn't appear and there's no way to contact him, and other times it's been because there's just no phone. As I've said before, every incidence of that type is worked out and that phone is started so that those people who haven't been called for this age period can call that number that they're using, of course, without any kind of problem. You were talking about collective success. I totally agree with that success not only with vaccines. Maybe you don't know, but it's just that the PCR was available before a month from the first case; and before, practically 2 days after the first case, we had the first vaccine in Galicia. It's totally according to you that it's a collective success, but as a collective, we don't spoil it with issues that are probably going to generate a bad picture of a process that is actually collective, it's for everyone, especially health professionals and the whole world that is doing this work. [[Applause]] You always insist on the percentage of population, well, as you insist I have to insist too. In the first moments, until the first of March, the vaccines that Galicia received were not proportional to its population, are proportional to its population greater than 80 years from 1 March, which we started to receive 8.2%, but up to that moment it was 5.2%-5.3%, and that's not the population. But, well, if you give the data, I'll give it too because I'm not going to give it away. And I repeat, since 1 March, we received 8.2%, which is the percentage of population we have in Group 80, but in residences -- which were the first target group, in residential workers -- that proportion was not maintained. So let's just say it and we have to keep saying it wasn't like that. And, well, already -- as I was saying earlier -- about the unvaccinated doses, for giving some data, if you ask me, that, of course, it's always at your disposal, look, until the AstraZeneca change last week we had administered more than 40,000 doses of AstraZeneca. And I have to make an incision here, AstraZeneca the week before that incidence announced that of the doses that I had planned to send to Galicia, it reduced two thirds; that is, only one third of us arrived and we had -- I repeat -- more than 40,000 Greeks and Greeks with the vaccine on. Well, of course we're careful and we've kept an important number of vaccines to guarantee that second dose, and we're going to keep it; we're going to leave 14,000 vaccines until May by chance -- that's what I was saying -- this week we're only getting 7,000 AstraZeneca vaccines. So there's a precautionary principle in this case too in the reservation of vaccines both in AstraZeneca and in Moderna, Moderna until now, as it changes -- and this says the ministry itself and also AstraZeneca -- it doesn't have a reliable logistics system, almost never coincides with what's expected of it. So also in Moderna we keep an important number, almost 50% of the commitment doses, for that second dose. And then in the case of Pfizer already told them that our goal on Holy Week was to vaccinate in primary care; and, after primary care, we are vaccinating as planned in more than 80 homes. I'm not going to tell you how the population in Galicia is organized and how it's scattered, and how the bet of going to vaccinate health centers will take us either to slow down, max when we're already working -- as I said before -- in the vaccination of those people who, once called to go to the health center, couldn't come and we have to go to our homes; and, Mrs. Prado, domiciles in primary care and in the disease seems to me that it's nothing that comes out of their usual work environment. That is to say, a primary care nurse can't vaccinate her home coupon patients, which I'm telling you, the average is less than 7 per nurse at home, much less. And if we think they can do it, but still, in case of chance, we still have the backup nurses, which in the case of Ourense province are the ones going home, the ones going home, the ones of reinforcement, not the ones of primary care. And we actually have proposals from primary care nurses to ask us to make that effort. Speaking of primary care and training, look, the course that was given to the 2,000 primary care nurses, which I have to say was massively following this course, was almost a month ago, a month ago in which the primary care nurses, all of them, 2,000 went to the course and did it. It wasn't yesterday or before yesterday. What could arrive [...] health care, which I don't say no, yesterday or before yesterday was the instruction that regulates some aspects of how to go to health centers. But I can tell you examples of health areas and hospitals and health centers that this instruction has, you yourself said, on March 3rd. I mean, that instruction was done more than a month ago. So tell me now that he improvises with an instruction on March 3rd, I don't know what he's coming for. In any case, we are calm and satisfied with the formation of primary care nursing and, in particular, with their behavior, as we have already said here for active and passive. He won't listen to us telling us that the primary care nurse didn't do what she had to do, of course she did and I repeat -- many of them, 200 voluntarily, to be part of these reference teams. [[Applause]] And now I would go to that part that I least appreciated in the tone. Mrs. Prado, you say that in Galicia we skip the groups, which is chaos, disorganization of vaccination. Well, I'm going to talk about what I was talking about a moment ago, about that collective spirit, about the sum of recognition, gratitude and reinforcement of the vaccination process. I don't think words like chaos, disorganization or jumping groups are the right thing to strengthen the vaccination plan, which is a success for everyone, as we're saying. Look, I don't think there was any chaos or disorganization in vaccination, I think there wasn't. We've already commented on a timely case, it didn't come within an hour at a vaccination point, which was arranged almost at the moment. I don't know what chaos and disorganization you're talking about. And skip the groups, look, the big addicts, if you often read the plan, say they'll start vaccinating at the same time as those over 80. That's exactly what we did; we started vaccinating over 80, we started vaccinating over 80, and we started vaccinating over 80 and dependent. We take 50% of the large vaccinated dependents. I have to say to the primary care nurses, who make you happy. They go to their homes and they're the ones who know them and they have them perfectly located. I've told you before the problem arising from the change in AstraZeneca dose, we've been thinking about doing these collectives this week that we were left with, namely the dentistry students, those who I'm sorry to agree with, but we're not going to put Pfizer's vaccine at the moment, because one thing we do in Galicia, despite everything you can think of, is to be loyal to what is agreed upon in the Interterritorial Council. At the Inter-Territorial Council has arrived, we can discuss, Mr Torrado, we can vote against, but I think we have never been disloyal to what is considered in the Council. And in the council it was suggested that vaccination of essentials under 55 was paralysed, and so we did. When it is determined what is done, which vaccine is used with essentials below 55, we will apply it the following day. But, really, I think it's a disrespect, first, to the people who are doing it and, second, to the Government and I think to all the Greeks. Galicia does not go free in the vaccination process, it scrupulously follows what is established in the strategy. There may be some point. You were talking about the SAF; for if we have a problem with the SAF of Vigo, indeed, which is known to the Vigo Council and us, and we are fixing it. But I think most of all the SAFs in Galicia or most of them are vaccinated. It's also true that, again, we talk about listings coming in one way or another, without going into detail, our intention is -- if not, then you tell me, if you want, or not the way you want -- I think it was always to vaccinate the SAF in time and form, as I think it's done, right? Finally, thank you, of course -- I repeat -- the tone, especially in everything that strengthens not the Government of Greece, but the Greek society as a whole, which has been able to prioritize and, except small aspects, to highlight the importance of vaccination, and not only the vaccination, because today I haven't only talked about vaccination, I believe that the epidemiological data we're talking about is a situation of which we can all feel proud; firstly, the Greeks and the Greeks who are complying with those standards, are being responsible, we're all learning, everyone knows the importance of public spaces, the importance of not making meetings of a certain number of people, the importance of always taking the mask, I think that in that sense Galicia is an example. And then allow me, Mr. Torrado, we will not yield that now in Galicia you can run down the street without masking and say so as to be active and passive, even if the Government says you cannot change the law. But I say that, in general, the success of the situation we have in Galicia is everyone's success, but I also have to say that, look, we don't have to trust ourselves, we have to continue to work, we have to have the Clinical Committee a Tuesday and we'll see again what measures we can maintain, what measures we have to strengthen, because we all know and we have autonomous communities near and far that, after being very good, they have gone through being the worst situations. We, for the moment, have never experienced this, but of course we have to work every day to make it this way and, in that sense, thank, I repeat again, the work of the health care workers, of the population and of course, of this Parliament as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u63	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u64	Thank you, President. Too bad he thanked the tone. If he doesn't like it, if he doesn't like it... [[Applause]] Let's see, and it's very hard to argue even when you try, I don't say to twist anymore, but to invent what someone explains. I even ended up listening to or rebuking ourselves to be asked for attention at home. When, I remind you both, that they said it, Mrs. Friend and Mr. Counselor, who we ask and we are interested in, and I think -- you're there to watch the video, you're there to watch the video, eh! -- with the Director General of Public Health that we told her that it seemed good to us what they were doing, it seemed good to us, it was us. If only we had brought the Director General of Public Health to explain a situation that we believe is important and we told her that it seemed good to us. And you come here to reproach us. That's why we say that we believe it's a collective success, because we're not going to do anything about the state of alarm anymore. If the state of alarm is so good, why did you vote against it? Why did they vote against it? [[Murmurs.]] And if we have so many mechanisms -- and we'll talk tomorrow -- why do what they did to the law? Anyway, it's not worth giving one argument today and another tomorrow depending on the thing. And no, it's not a percentage per population of the arrival of vaccines. It's a percentage of the target group and they always came and arrived, and they got what they had to reach for over 80 when we vaccinated over 80. If they were less than there when we were vaccinating in residences, it's because Galicia has the lowest number of public residence squares in Spain for older people. If that's the problem. If we had fewer vaccines, it's because we have less squares. [[Applause]] They create more public residence squares. Zero since he ruled Feijó. I'm glad he liked the attitude. But do you know what another attitude would be? If we're... If I remember myself perfectly saying quietly to which vaccination is going well and which is a success of all. And they come to blame that. But if we can teach, we could do it. I'll take my phone during your speech by Mrs. Friend and Mr. Counselor. I say 10 to stay short, what different people are following her, who follow her and who tell me: tell her what she's lying about, because what she's saying is that she's done to me, and it's not done. And you know what happens, that then they get angry with me, that they tell me: you seem to defend the Government more than the Government. Because I'm sinning, because my group is sinning to be loyal. Because if you don't, when you get up here to say what you're saying, see if they can next time, then, because they want to criticize me on behalf of my group that we're making an exaggerated criticism... I already have to get into that socialists don't care, I don't know that, like... I'm not going to come in, but... The mutualists, who are being vaccinated at a lower rate. Why? Because there's a problem. And you saw us say something exaggerated? No, let's put it as a question, even in private at the meetings. Is They saw us say something about dentists, are they in practice in front of an open mouth? Did they see us say anything? No, no, no, no. And they're right. About the logos, who work with people talking, ahead. Did they see us say anything? No, no, no, no. And they're right. With the sailors on board, did you see us say something? that they have a problem because they're living together and they can't keep any distance. No, and they're right. With the vets? No, and they're right. With the cleaning staff of the health centers, which there are many not yet vaccinated, many people? No, and they're right. With the staff of the SAF, which is long and unvaccinated, many women above all. No, and they're right. With the penitentiaries, which you assumed were all vaccinated and not, that's not. And they were right. Did we say something? No, no, no, no. With recruitment, millions of euros to hire something like trackers. Are we still saying something? No, no, no, no. With the caregivers of older people in homes that don't go empty. Did we say something? No, no, no, no. With accumulations and agglomerations in the shrimps and then also in the vaccination. Did you come to tell me something? No, and they're right. You know why? Because we said, and I have the advantage of being able to repeat now that I have said it many times here, that the process is complicated, that governments have a difficult situation and that all decisions are made with good will, and that all governments, regardless of their color, have problems with the situation and management of this difficult and extraordinary stage. And we understand that. Don't ask me or don't tell us we're disloyal because we don't go out applauding things. Because, in fact, it's true that many times we say that they do well, that there are things that do well. I know what they're asking us to do is to be palm trees, no, that allows me to stop. And they talk about using the pandemic. I've lived a country-like funeral with a number of victims, I'll always remember: 619. We multiply them by five now. Do you know what the difference is, Mrs. Friend? That that funeral was precaution. [[Applause]] Don't come to me... and I've been with this in the body for months, don't say that we're using the campaign or that socialists don't know what, or the pajamas that say some voice over there. Please! More personal. We needed to discuss at that moment cordially what you were saying. Mr. Torrado, you think you have to hire them before mass vaccination comes. Well, we're always in favour of hiring staff, even extra, never remaining. But the case is that it needs to be done. And with all that we have, that we're pulling from professionals from the system, from the ordinary system, fantastic, what we have is that we could untangle the other areas, see if we're able... we think it's time to hire stablely, already ahead of you the strategy, once you hire them after you say, don't stop them. I'll let you go around, a little bit to see if... you know, this gale thing of "you'll do" and so on. So you're going to hire and see if we can get them to leave, that's our question. Dissemination campaigns, a public campaign, with well-known tenants, famous actors, musicians, journalists, politicians...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u66	...about the advantages of vaccination, because it's important that we be able to spread now that there are uncertainties and that governments are not at all right with the transmission of the idea. For example, in Galicia we could do that. Tell me about our collaboration if that's the case. In spite of you, this goes well, and we are very glad, so all the best they do will be good for everyone, but don't come and tell me or make this a compliment, because that's why we haven't passed until now and we're not going to spend any more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u67	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u68	Just to start, Mrs. Friend, I suppose by counting several times the squares that offer and add to those of 2019, which are still unattained, 2019, 2020, 2021 and announcing those of 2022, they give you very nice numbers. If you had added to this for the next 10 years, you'd still have the most beautiful figure. Another thing is reality and how many professionals needs Galicia's public health system, which with these job offers that you're making you are still insufficient, and they know it, they're still insufficient and they know it, even though one day and another looks like they're increasing 1,000 more every day. That's not the story. Look at one thing, Counselor, and tones aside, because here we saw each one showing his positions, and you can do things with a very soft tone and that doesn't mean they're not harmful or negative in many cases. It's not about tone, it's about the intensity with which things are done. I've already told you before, you know, the list of mutualists. You've known for months that you were going to have to go to vaccination, why are you waiting for the last hour? Then he'll be disappointed if I tell him it's improvisation and questions to the slaughter jump and the last hour. How do you get the vaccines listed? Why don't they have things organized since then, because they knew there was time to go to this vaccination process? They didn't, they didn't! Look, I'm the subject of primary care nursing, of course it corresponds to primary care, and they're fighting for it to do the vaccination process, and they're fighting for it and they're defending what corresponds to primary care, of course yes, but not the basis of an inhuman and constant effort, which is what I'm reporting to you here, Counsellor, not that you have to do the illness, but the permanent over effort to which they've been subjected. [[Applause]] That, without changing their schedules, you're going to have to go do the homes of large dependents that correspond to them, but when you've planned it, not out of schedule and every day. That's what I'm here reporting on, because that's what they're reporting on. And it seems pretty easy to understand. And I don't know if it's institutional loyalty; no, it's rigour, and the agreement it's agreed on. And there's a strategy and a vaccination plan that sets out the groups, and you're not respecting them. You in the first intervention said you were vaccinating all the staff of the SAF, now you've said that, well, some are missing. But it's that this is continuing in many groups, and that's what I've come here today to denounce you, because it seems that silence and applause is the only thing that's meritorious, in your opinion, and the things to be solved must know that there are problems, and not to say that everything is okay when it's not right, when it's not right. And, look, the theme of how many vaccines were administered to Galicia and how many were administered that is not in the format in which it is now, but it has always known how many arrived and how many were administered, and it had to be added and stayed. And at the BNG that we still know how to do, at the BNG we still know how to add and subtract, to see what the situation was that there was always a very important number of vaccines. Now you say that by a principle of prudence. Well, that principle of prudence these last few days seems to be not being applied, depending on whether you're coming here to be able to give some data or others. I say, because it's because, really, sometimes things have to apply the advice that if you give it to others, you also have to apply it. Look, you were talking about a moment ago about the issue of having tools, and at BNG we fully agree that we have tools to be able to act, and so we defend that Galicia has more sovereignty, more competences, more ability to put in place the issues that are necessary. And you systematically vote against, you don't want to have more competence to say that they have no tools to act, and they don't want more competences. [[Applause]] Then one thing would have to go together with the other. But, in any case, tools are needed, but to act and not as a exclusively political confrontation. And there are things obviously that you don't have all the instruments of the German Government, but you do have tools to do things that you're not doing, and that's why I'm going to make you a series of questions to develop today. I asked you about changing protocols for new variants, because it's necessary for the tracking system to work, and today you'll find it very bad to say chaos, but it's still chaos. There are people who call them three and four trackers in a variety of versions, others don't call them anybody. There are people who make PCR when they finish the quarantine and other people who don't, I could stay here for a while I don't have, and that's today in mid-April 2021, not in March 2020 when the pandemic started. That still exists and you're not correcting it, and that's up to you. That's why you have tools to be able to do it, so one of the proposals I'm telling you is that you change the protocols, adapt them to the new situation, so that the new variants don't mean a problem, when we're not stagnant compartments, and here Galicia has always reached the waves later than other countries of the European Union and the Spanish State. [[Applause]] I wish they didn't come, but obviously if they do, they'll have to be ready and not go running soon to do things they're not doing. Make a human resources plan for primary care now, take action, put in place that primary care improvement plan because it's essential, it can't follow all the backs of professional over effort. It starts, it starts launching a public system of epidemiological alerts and emergencies, it's always the poor sister of health, not even 1% of what was in the budgets. What I'm telling you is that a year later it would be time for you to start reversing a system with the issues you need. And another question I want to ask you is that there is a little unanimous opinion on the health areas, because indeed, as much as you say here, it is a timely case, if a functional plan has not been drawn up in a health area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u70	...we have a serious problem, and there are health areas where they didn't present the functional vaccination plan. And you know it's like this, and you know there's different rhythms, different criteria depending on who's in front of you, and that's creating problems of iniquity and problems when you start the issues. And that's why I ask you to really coordinate and establish unified strategies throughout the Greek health system, because at this moment it's not happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u72	Thank you very much, President. Good morning again, everyone. Counselor, again congratulations, congratulations and thanks; we cannot but thank you for the Government's effort. Clear and transparent answers. I'm going to stay with that pandemic is not stopping the rest of the projects, with which, despite having to manage this pandemic, all the effort and all the resources that this entails, since the last time you showed up, the Health Council has advanced in what it has committed itself to this House, the post-covid units, and today, you have also said this here, a reinforcement for mental health with that specific post-covid reinforcement, so necessary for our society. He signed agreements for the launch of three new health centres, and inaugurated the one of Paderne de Allariz. He assisted the first phase of the expansion of the Montecelo hospital, launched a pioneer treatment against tremors in Spanish public health, and he was here at the Santiago de Compostela hospital, and 36 radio-surgical equipment were also contracted. The processing of the decree has begun that will allow the Greek pharmacies to give custom dosing systems. He renewed the Health Innovation Council, and put him to work on applying 3D printing in health care. He presented the Next Generation projects for health care, with initiatives, by the way, such as that own manufacturing center of CAR-T and another proton therapy. She launched the Xanela website open to the family, with tips of healthy habits, the new technologies, such as that Sergas Mobile APP, have been strengthened. And many other projects. He has just created the first centralized recruitment lists for hospital medical personnel. It is very important for Galicia that this pandemic does not mean time wasted in progress and reforms that need our public health, and that is why since the People's Group we especially appreciate that the cowardice does not stop the Government in its pending tasks and that this advance takes place at the same time as the fight against cowardice has much better results than in other autonomous communities. Perhaps there is a group that bothers Galicia to find itself in one of the state's best epidemiological situations, without having to suffer from this house confinement, that total closure to which they wanted to subject us for 15 days two months ago. And, look, data crossing is eloquent enough to make comparisons between two governments that govern differently. I bring here a note, Mr. Torrado talked about global issues, this may be a global issue. This weekend, the press echoed the crossing of GDP data, which places Spain as the worst country that has managed the pandemic in the European Union. This is not what the People's Party says. It's data, as you say, global issues. I invite them to prudence, to trust us as Galician governments, with experience, stability, and who have proved in this crisis more correct than errors. Rectify is wise, and today with the data that we have available these solutions that you proposed and that they start up since Moncloa doesn't seem to be the right ones. We're left with the choice of a government that can find the balance between maintaining activity and cutting the contaminations, and the data supports it. The last report on the ministry, the percentage of traceable data, is in Galicia at 78%. In a community, such as Catalonia, where the partners of the BNG rule, 55%. The tracking system, the one they keep talking about, which we have to hear from here by you, works better in Galicia than where your recipes are applied. And here I also have official data, which you can also have. Data indicating the classification of the level of alert between communities, by provinces, data of the accumulated incidence at 7 days, at 14 days, where Galicia is better stopped, and data of the occupation of beds, both in acute beds and units of ICU, where Galicia remains much better than the rest of the communities. And we celebrate it. I don't know, Mr. Torrado, if I listened to you, it seemed to me that I heard you were also glad about the data, and I'm glad that you're happy but I just wanted to make two killings for you. [[Murmurs.]] You talked about precipitate data. Just compare Galician data and its star candidate in Catalonia when there were election campaigns. And he also spoke of those vaccinations of non-professional caregivers of older people at home. That'll know it's the responsibility of your government's national strategy, which says they don't vaccinate. And, Mrs. Prado, he's talking about tools, he's talking about making it clear. We passed a law precisely to be able to act and you voted against it. Finally, and already to finish, Counselor, in front of a central government that hides itself, we have a board that gives the face and, in front of an opposition that makes proposals without criteria, we have a Government in Galicia, which trusts the experts. I am counting on this parliamentary group to support it and to keep Galicia in good hands. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close-up of this apparition, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u74	Good morning again, gentlemen. I'd appreciate the tone and I'll keep doing it, both at the bottom of this case and in the form, but obviously in some way, if I may, I have to show my opinion, I'd lack more, wouldn't I? Well, you were talking, Mr. Torrado, about the state of alarm, I said you weren't going to talk about the state of alarm, because I think it's all said; if you were talking about the tools and you didn't tell me about any tools. I continue to say that from 9 May we have certain important doubts, and not me, all autonomous communities. I could send you comments on the Inter-Territorial Council of Other Autonomous Communities governed by the Socialist Party that say exactly the same thing: there are important doubts about what will happen with the tools we had so far after 9 May. I repeat that if you have any information, I'll thank you and maybe I'm calmer. He said that I really appreciate your tone and I'll keep thanking him, but not because you tell me a story about professionals or groups who didn't get vaccinated, of course, I'm telling you. And I have to tell you that 732,000 people have been vaccinated in Galicia until now, it's a number I think it's important, we've already said the percentage it is, and this week we're going to make an important effort to reach that almost 30%. It's likely and I accept it and, if so, I've already said before I apologize if any collective or someone specifically has not been vaccinated. So I'm grateful that I have so many people who ask you for information, we're going to look for the way and -- as I said -- we have that incidence phone, which is the idea of getting the call, and if it's resolvable at the moment, it's solved. Because it's true, I've already said, not in this Parliament, but on many occasions in public, that one of the main values of the Galician Health Service is its database [...] population, the health card, and I think -- you will now tell me that you also have some case -- that when we vaccinate by age, the health card, we have no problem, because it's an information we have, that we operate with it every day for multiple issues and it's incorporated into systems. The problem is when this information is fed with Excel files in mails and emails, using mail and new version of the mail, and in the text box puts the number in the number. That's all very difficult, it's no excuse, either, because we have to. In fact, we've been working on this topic for months with mutualists, with collectives, with municipalities, with countless groups so when the time of vaccination came to have the data. It's true that that anticipation that we had with some collective caused us problems later, because we were recovering enough data before some groups were fine-tuned into the strategy and that caused a logical anxiety to see when vaccination was done, but I think, in the end, I repeat, in general balance of these more than seven hundred thousand galleys and galleys vaccinated, at great scratches, there were no such problems. I have to say that I understand perfectly collectives like the veterinarians, which you said, who think they have been vaccinated, probably I personally can think of it as well, and public health people, but they're not in the essentials of private rural veterinarians; indeed, they are in the field of public health, which, of course, are not vaccinated many of them in public health, yet. The sailors, because they are not, the sailors are not incorporated into the strategy, despite the fact that some autonomous community on their own and risk had vaccinated them. We in this sense have already asked the ministry in February to have special consideration with these collectives, to use the ISM to vaccinate them, which seems to us to be an organ, as he did with the military, the ministry didn't ask us what he did with the military, decided that he vaccinated the ministry and we didn't say anything at all; the Civil Guard vaccinated it ourselves and we made it enchanted. But with the sailors we do ask the ministry that, given the characteristics of the tides, rotation, crews, which are mixed (asturians, Greeks, cantabros and Basques on the same boat), that the most practical thing was that the ISM had done, and so we transferred it to the ministry. And besides, look at you, we proposed Janssen's vaccine, united to be able to vaccinate them. We're waiting. This, last week at the Territorial Council, I moved again to the ministry, by the way, with the support of an autonomous community not governed by the People's Party. So in this line we are also, and non-professional caregivers, because I can also consider that they should be, but they are not; in that sense, I reiterate what I said earlier, that in Galicia one of the fundamental criteria for vaccination is the strictest possible compliance of the vaccination plan. You talk about a vaccination campaign, I thank you, and I take your glove, maybe we have to go out together on a promotion, but I also have to say that, fortunately, today we humbly believe that it is not necessary, today, something else is within a time. He used to say that adherence data in a collective as special as it's 75 to 79, older people who may have difficulty reaching vaccination centers, we're talking more than 80%. And when we do the reception later, because part of these Welsh and Welsh people don't come because they don't want it, but because the mobile phone we're warning about is an old, card phone, which they don't use anymore, well, there's multiple situations. And I want to say that the percentage of Galicians and Galicians who are attending vaccination is large and large, but I repeat that, if at some point we believe or talk about the need to do that campaign, of course, totally in favor. With regard to the nursing and primary care, which we already talked about, and also you were saying, we have to keep insisting, our primary care bet was clear, and it wasn't as much as your job, Mrs. Prado, was -- I repeat it, I don't know whether for the tenth time, or twelve times -- that we asked for volunteers in primary care nurses to take a step to undertake vaccination, they took that step, we replaced them all and they're doing that vaccination, they made it first in the residences, they made it when they had to vaccinate their own partners both in the hospital and in primary care, who are, of course, all vaccinated, and they're doing it now with 80 years of age. What if we ask primary care nurses, who are not those volunteers, is that they go, first, doing that training that I said before, and I thank that massive adherence to the training plan with almost 100% of the nurses doing that training, and now we ask them, when these nurses are vaccinating in the health centers, they're taking a hand and they're taking a little of the vaccination mechanics. Because if we believe that they are fundamental in the home, they know the homes, they know the patients perfectly, they can take advantage of something else to do that vaccination. We really believe it's the strategy. And I know, Mr. Torrado, that you thanked and recognized that strategy in the commission, and we never criticised it, it seems good that they coincide, in addition. And, with regard to the primary issues that you were already saying in general, well, look, Mr. Torrado, is that in the 2019-2021 primary care plan, actions have been analyzed in the short, medium and long term. 100% of short-term shares are already finished, sorry, started, and 92% finished. And 88% of medium-term shares are started and 32% are finished. The coverage of 100% of the 45 squares created in 2019 was made, and the coverage of 80% of the 102 squares in 2020 was made, and we are in the process of covering the 161 new squares created in 2021. Well, you might insist that nothing is done in primary school, well, the data is soft and there. You're right I didn't answer one thing, but I'm sorry I didn't notice when I did the first answer. The new variants are quite right, we have been asking the Territorial Council, the Ponencia de Vaccines and the Committee on Public Health for several weeks to update the protocol in the Clinical Committee, the Ponencia de Vaccines and the Public Health Commission for this quarantine period from 10 to 14 days. But, as we ask, we are also aware that Galicia cannot go for free, in this sense, because we are talking about bigger issues in the duration of an IT, for example, in areas that are not exclusively Greek. So we believe that we must actually take that step, we are already doing it in the part that is our responsibility and we are doing it, Mrs. Prado, because for a long time we have known the variants that are circulating through Galicia. I think we were the first autonomous community that reported 53% of the variant percentage, because we made a system of encryption, not of sequencing, because this process, in the particular case of the British variant, is not by sequencing, we're lucky that there's a PCR that detects it, and with that process we reported 53%; when no autonomous community was practically talking about the British variant, we said and we said the 53%. And we've been saying for weeks that we've been at more than 90%, it's true, it's a reality we have in Galicia. It's also true that the results, at least in the last few weeks, since we started warning, from January 22nd, have been less than expected, in mortality and incidence, probably in hospital stays if it has to do with this situation. And, as I say, we are concerned not only by the British, but also, as you know, we already have a Brazilian variant detected -- in this case yes by sequencing -- and we continue to sequence and detect everything we can, because, in fact, we are concerned and I apologize for not answering it earlier. We're in that protocol change. He said that if we work on our subject of tracking, that of what you were talking about, I have to disagree with you, it doesn't work so bad, it's that this is a long speech, that they call it..] and there's another one that doesn't call it, I don't say that any case can't exist, but we have indicators, a frame of command that we did with this subject and we can move it without any problem. The case tracking data are good; in fact, the whole dimension that we gave to the service in the peak, on January 22, when we had the largest number of cases, we didn't take it away precisely because we believe we have to act in these new cases, detect them as soon as possible and prevent them from spreading. So, in that sense, we're just modifying our protocol and we're expanding the radius, doing something beyond what the protocol says -- in this case the ministerial -- by expanding the radius of contacts in both distance and time. That's what you're doing, precisely because of that impression of the effect of these new variants. Well, Mrs. Friend gives me the opportunity to refresh those things that we're doing in parallel with the pandemic, I mentioned some examples, I would add to those that you've commented on, Mrs. Friend, because the plan to reactivate the activity that is delayed by the pandemic, those citations of evidence, above all, and consultations that we have to recover; it's practically finished that plan and we'll soon do it. These works, both in primary care with these newly incorporated centers, and all those that are about to come, and those works in hospital care that we continue to bid, to adjudicate, to start, to put the first stone, or even in any case to receive. Also important to pharmacy, and here, I have said before, thanking the overall collaboration of all the professional schools, absolutely all of them, but in particular in this case to the official pharmacy schools, which is already the spit in the pharmacy offices, which I think has had a quite good result, and is extending to the rest of the community, as I said before, as in this effort of handling chronic patients with this SPD document, which we believe is really going to be an important leap in the management of chronic drugs and their medication, above all. Of course, all the steps in innovation and, also said before, to highlight the work of information and communication technologies in the Galician Health Service. It allowed us to make these massive citations that we are having, practically without any entanglement, at least with the reception of messages or confirmation, of course the citation, that quote every two minutes is possible on the one hand thanks to the nurses, who have already said it before, but also by having a very simple system of record with their own QR code, and with a preload on the system that really makes the nurse take very little time to make that record, which is at the same time so important. Or, well, all the structure that permanent maintenance in communication and information technologies. Then thank both the General Sub-Directorate for Central Services and the sub-directors of each of the health areas and the staff working in them. You were talking about postcovid units, I think it's an important leap. We think we work very well, the system in general, in the whole country worked very well with the foster patients who entered, and this follow-up is done, but we think we have to work with the copper patients who didn't enter, who are supposed to have no reason for complications, but that we're looking at, with evolution, that there is indeed some sequel and it's important in this case that your primary care doctor, who is part of the teams, detect these cases, incorporates it into the system and when necessary -- as it's already happening -- require attention, in this case, in this multidisciplinary unit. And, of course, everything I was commenting on mental health, which, as I said before, continues to work on it, being incorporated as the Suicide Unit, recently incorporated into Vigo, or everything that is working for Vigo's infant-juvenile unit too in this case, or the health areas with psychologists that we have incorporated into the personal domain. Well, I'm done thanking you again for the tone, thanking all parliamentarians for the work they're doing in the follow-up to the pandemic in Galicia. It is also a challenge for us to come here voluntarily or to the demand of the groups to move the pandemic situation, it is part of our work and we do it in good taste, and we also always thank collaboration when at some point we had calls in the private sphere to comment on the details that are taking place. And, of course -- I repeat -- thank you for that collaboration. To transmit a message of tranquility -- I repeat -- to all those who have to be vaccinated that they will be vaccinated with all guarantees and all security, with the available vaccines, which will be the best, we have this important film -- which was said before -- of the arrival of a monodose vaccine, that for some aspects of the population of Galicia, it said by dispersion, that we are using at home, or -- I said already -- in ships, it is a very easy vaccine to use in the field of crew, they don't have to come back from tides to put it; at last, I think it's an important element. And, above all, in the case of Janssen's vaccine the most attractive is the expectation of arrival, we're talking about an estimated arrival of 50,000 -- it's true that from June -- doses per week. Between these 50,000 doses per week of Janssen and the 100,000 I have to say that if we're regularly having Pfizer, which allows us to be more animated, between how you plan; we're planning for Tuesday and Wednesday the administration of the vaccines arriving on Monday, sending the messages the week before. It is true that, if there is a problem with the shipment, we are committed to it, but we really believe that now with that stability of Pfizer shipments, at least until now, not at first, we can risk ourselves, and if, finally, on Tuesday or Wednesday we don't have Pfizer doses because they don't arrive, I suppose the citizen can understand it. But I say that with Pfizer's 100,000 every Monday and that 50,000 Jansen every Monday also from June, those 150,000 weeks, I think they put us in a quite good position to follow the pace and the established vaccination plan. And -- I was saying -- to those people we put on the first dose and they're in doubt of the second dose, I was saying give them a message of tranquility. As we said, even though we can disagree, we are on the International Council and on the Vaccine Forum and on the Public Health Commission seeking and valuing, seeing the pros and cons of the best alternative possible, which is that we will finally transfer to those Greek citizens who think that they will have the best possible, homogeneous and similar solution to be adopted in the rest of the European Union and, of course, in the rest of the country. To highlight this mortality rate, which is a fact that we rarely use, that we have in Galicia the best data at the peninsula level, that puts us...; it's the summary, I think it's corollary of the epidemiological situation in Galicia, mainly the result of the care that the health care professionals were able to provide to our patients and that, I repeat, puts us in the first place of the situation in Spain. To speak, to evaluate -- as Mr. Torrado said is a merit of all -- that high percentage of vaccination we have achieved. Of course, to value that impact that we have today, but always from the discretion that this data can change unfortunately at any time and, in that sense, the only way that that doesn't happen is to apply our very characteristic instinct. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u75	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Agenda development modification There is a change in the agenda, so we are now discussing the motions of point 4. motion by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the wind sector situation in Galicia No amendments have been tabled and Mrs Presas has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. With this motion since the Galego Nationalist Block, Galicia is not going well with this Kamikaze wind model of the People's Party, which is based on a policy of razing and lack of planning, which we understand that since the Union is not only consenting, but also pushing, and since the Galician Nationalist Block we have made it clear: it is urgent to change course before it is late and the damage irreparable. Because today our country is experiencing a problem that we can say is triple or has three big legs: an economic problem, an environmental problem and also a social and democratic control problem. And the truth is, there are more and more voices that share this reflection or this diagnosis that I play here today. We can see in recent weeks new examples and more examples on the table of social and environmental groups, of the scientific community itself, of trade unions, mountain communities, municipalities, also of the People's Party. In the last few days we have seen, for example, communiqués and motions in Rodeiro or Curtis, but also in Oia, the Bath and many others. We also have valuations made by farm managers themselves or even neighboring associations. And today with this motion from the Galego Nationalist Block we focus once again on a social cry on this issue and we move this social cry to this Parliament too, presenting a battery of proposals and measures that seek to put wind energy into the service of this country and bet on a model of our own, by a model that is German, sustainable, participatory and fair, and at the service of our people and not of the great electricians. [[Applause]] As we have analysed on other occasions, since 2019 we have, above all, lived a genuine boom in this unprecedented country, accelerated by the needs of energy change and decarbonization, but also accelerated without a doubt by all the legal changes that the People's Party has driven in recent years, especially this Business Implementation Act of 2017, which constituted an amendment to the wind regulatory framework and which was adopted without consensus. This feeds, so to speak, an wind race, a wind fever that we understand has no justification for developing in such an accelerated way, and that's what objective data tells us. And I put back on the table these recent data of Spain's 2020 power grid advance to our country, where we can see how we have met the renewables horizon in our approach: 75.6% of our country's energy generation last year was renewable. We beat records not only in terms of renewables, but also in terms of generating wind energy, being the second largest community in the whole state. At the same time, we have seen historical data, in the sense that for the first time generation with renewables has surpassed the consumption of Greek. And that's more, Galicia can claim that, despite having two thermal power plants practically closed, because it continues to be surplus in electricity production by more than 29%. So the question is easy. Why are you in such a hurry? Why are you in such a hurry? Who benefits from being doing things this way? Of course, we have it clear that our country is not experiencing this environmental problem, that economic problem, that social problem and democratic control, that only benefits the big electricity. And we insist on these three big issues that we want to crumble today. [[Applause]] We're talking about an environmental problem, we're talking about an environmental problem that doesn't interest the People's Party, but we're still talking about it in this House, which in green disguise brings us a model that is at all respecting our biodiversity and due environmental guarantees. We have said on other occasions that renewable energy is not harmless, that it also has an impact to be assessed on the territory, and right now what we see in Galicia is a perfect storm that has three large legs that feeds it and makes it ever bigger. On the one hand, this absolutely productive optics of the Galician Union; on the other hand, a practice of circumvention of compliance with environmental legislation, are not respecting those precautionary and precautionary principles that arbitrate international, state and also Welsh legislation; and we are seeing it as premeditated and that the Galician Union has delayed the extension of protection catalogues like the Nature Network and had not endeavoured to extend to other protection figures because it brings a lot of problems. And finally, a matter of which we have also warned on numerous occasions, that law fraud that is committed by fragmenting larger projects, disguise them from smaller projects to avoid a joint evaluation. Once again, we have to quote in this House recent judgments, such as Sasdonigas or Iribio, which testify to all of this that we are saying. In the previous plan we were talking about several examples, some of them also came on BNG's initiative to this plenary, but without going further in the press yesterday all of us could see how the Biosphere Reserve of the Coruñas and Lands of Mandeo demanded precisely a question related to this artificial fragmentation, and demanded that a joint assessment of up to 15 parks which provide nearly 100 aerogeors in this part of the territory, which would more than double those that are already existing and which would be in addition to a much larger size. UNESCO itself was interested in this issue. So in environmental matters, we propose in this motion various measures that increase surveillance, such as auditing the parks that are currently being processed right now to detect in which cases we are watching law fraud by fragmentation, or continuing with the expansion of the Natura Network, excluding -- but really -- implementation in this part of the territory, not only in which it is already Nature Network, also in which it was intended to increase, but also to go further, to create new protection catalogues and, in brief, to increase that monitoring and protection. But we can't leave also from the BNG to put on the table that the problems arising from the wind sector situation in our country right now is also an economic problem, because the one that benefits is these large Ibex 35 power stations, which are just making a technology shift from one to another without paying attention also to a model change to incorporate our country's small and medium-sized company. It's an economic problem, because the return is practically minimal; by setting an example, we've been talking about the municipalities at other times, but if we're going to see what the return is to landowners and landowners, we see that they get between 1% and 2.4%, which is a small amount, taking into account the benefits that this technology generates. And finally, also argue that it's an economic problem every time it's talkative that this boom, this great development is accompanied by a generation of employment and correlated industrial muscle. The best evidence is that this great effervescence is taking place at a time when we are also seeing the dismantling of Naturgy's technical jobs in the Coruña, Iberdrola in the Sil basin in Valdeorras, but also definitive closures like Isobat, screaming relocations like Siemes Gamesa, and a long et cetera that is also the example of not only energy failure, but also economic and industrial of the policies of the People's Party, which are summarized in 12 years of lost time. Never so many renewable generations have been in Galicia and never so many labour problems and lack of economic return at the same time. [[Applause]] And, finally, the third big block or big question that we want to point out on an exit path that we offer in this motion is that this is also a social problem and democratic control in our country, not only because there is no longer practically a region in our country that has no social problem with the installation or attempt to install this technology, but rather because it is gruesome the objective difficulty of accessing the information that exists, and the Galician Register is practically ridiculous, it seems to have been designed twenty years ago, it does not offer accessible and transparent information to something as elementary as to superimpose more complete maps that follow permeable information for neighbouring is not allowed; something as elementary as linking to projects or linking to publications in the Official Journal of Galicia is something that today is not allowed, and this goes within a design also to which obeys that last Act of administrative axillation, but which is actually of economic axillation, which has approved unilaterally the participation of the People's Party, which has only a few months since the participation of the People's Party, the use of the use of the People's Party. Faced with this, we propose to improve the tools that already exist, we propose that there should also be a service of the Inega of technical and administrative counseling to the affected groups, and also something as elementary as seeking a consensus on those demands that the Galego Wind Observatory, which does not make them BNG or make them a political or union organization, but does them a university observatory, an observatory that has a very important job that we also want to recognise and that it has specific transparency recommendations, that it has specific recommendations for public participation and for the dissemination of contract models, which has just taken a guide that should embarrass the Government of Greece not do that same work, and that, therefore, from there the Government of Greece will improve all these issues. And finally, we understand that the best form of participation in all affected sectors and in all economic sectors would also be to do what is really necessary right now, which is planning and management through a new plan of the Greek wind sector. Because it was a problem that existed until 1997, because it's expired and it doesn't meet today's needs, but it's a bigger problem, which with the latest legal changes the German Government has directly converted every inch of this country into potential for wind deployment. So what we propose is to manage; to define our energy needs as well as other technologies; to have a clear orientation; to define areas of exclusion and areas of implementation for this technology; and, in short, to make a model change that puts wind energy to the service of our country and to bet, in front of a colonial policy model, by a Greek model that is participatory, fair and sustainable. Three issues that should be unnegotiable by any government that had a minimum of love for this country and that wanted technology not to repeat history again, and that with the energy and wind generation we did not repeat the errors that have been made in this country with the implementation of the hydraulics, and that the benefit goes everything out while there is the environmental impact and there is no economic return, nor do we meet the minimum environmental or democratic guarantees. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u78	Thank you very much, President. Gentlemen of the People's Party, and ladies, there are a few times that we have been discussing these issues in plenary, and while we are still not able to get some kind of reflection from the People's Party on the evasive elements that exist in the process of deploying wind energy in our country. The discomfort -- as the BNG voicer said -- of citizenship grows every day in the territory, when the logic would be that with good planning and transparency this process would be well received by the citizenry. Beyond talking about the evil bipartite and its wind competition -- which will surely come out here -- gentlemen of the People's Party, or criticising the central government -- which will surely also come out -- we would like us to be able to focus the debate on the issues that concern the Greek citizenship, which you see in all corners of our territory are planning wind parks without any information on the part of their self-government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, open your eyes and act, our rural society needs a government that acts to fix population and create economic activity. We're talking about the fight against the abandonment of agricultural lands, we're talking about the problems we have with rural depopulation. But we should provide solutions and not only be mere spectators of a process of deployment of wind energy in which promotional companies stick to their widths. It's good that wind energy is implanted, but it has to be planned and it has to leave benefits in a rural country that needs positive discrimination in order to have a future. I don't think it's too much to ask them to be rural allies, not to hide in the face of the development of this sector when it's the rural one who asks them for help in providing information, to advise them, to balance negotiations, to improve the income that comes to the owners or to bring the tax burden to the rural communities. From the Socialist Party we're not going to make an intervention here against the wind sector and its deployment, we're not those who say not to the whole wind park that wants to be installed in our territory. We believe in wind development, but this wind development must be done with guarantees. Our party has always been and has been firmly committed to renewable energies, and this is something known to the sector itself and to the public. All we ask is that this wind energy boom be made towards citizenship planning our territory and that it leave a greater benefit to our people in addition to respecting our environment and our territory. [[Applause]] Galicia had strong wind development in the first years from 97 to 2008, thanks to the existence of a wind resource in our territory, the regulatory framework that favoured the deployment of new parks, and from 2009 to 2018, both included, with shared governments of the People's Party in Galicia and Spain only 277 megawatts were installed. That meant a number of million-dollar losses in investment and the impossibility of creating thousands of jobs and that many of the business initiatives in the sector were disappearing and, with them, many jobs. In the year 2019, the growth of power installed in Galicia with 415 megawatts and 18 new parks, almost double that installed in the previous ten years. And, by 2020, we're around 4,000 megawatts; and according to the forecasts for the decade we're in, we could build some 4,500 new megawatts, which will be more than twice the current installed power, and we have to figure out how this power is installed. Today the BNG presents this motion, in which there are no questions that can cause strong disputes and differences between groups -- that's what we think --. We don't see it proposing anything that is not necessary for a good wind development of our land, with necessary measures as are those that we also propose in our party to support the rural world, to democratize the wind system, to establish balances between owners and wind promoters, and, of course, not endanger our natural wealth and the primary activities of our territory that these days are denouncing agricultural organizations, the Galician Labour Union and Agricultural Unions. It is our rural one who is denouncing day after day from feeling helpless before the multitude of wind projects that flourish throughout our territory, without the autonomous administration giving them information about what is happening to them, without knowing where they have to go so that those who should be their allies defend their interests, and that is very serious, lords of the People's Party. Every week some citizen from all over the extensive rural territory calls us asking for information about the possible deployment of wind farms in their territory. And this last week, agents of the surroundings of Lalín, Rodeiro, Vila de Cruces, Forcarei, Cerdedo... other areas like the district of Aranga, Oza-Cesuras, of places like Cerceda or Laracha, of Coristanco, etc. And everyone asks for information. Why don't they set up this technical, administrative and environmental advisory office from Galicia? What's the matter? Why would they rather turn their backs on our neighbors and neighbors and leave them totally isolated and uninformed? Why don't you accept the implementation of mechanisms to promote transparency and collaborate with our rural neighbourhood by setting up a model model for a model contract to negotiate with wind farms companies? What's the problem the People's Party has to do with it? We don't know. He has created themes that do not paralyze or attack wind development, only try to help our rural citizenship, which is what they ask us day after day when we go to the territory. Why do you not agree to establish a public basis for price information reached in negotiations between the affected parties in the installation of the wind farm? What's the reason? Why are they afraid of transparency and support for our citizens? You who are the great advocates of private property leave the municipalities and the rural communities who seek help from their rulers in order to be able to negotiate with those who come to use their property. Why do you not agree to introduce mechanisms to balance trade between owners and promoters?, so much does the energy sector companies, the People's Party lords? The reality is that the owners receive only about 2% of the wind business, about 11 million euros in total, and this amount should be increased and we should all work for it, if it's true -- as you say -- that they are strongly committed to our rural environment and making policies against their abandonment. Why aren't they looking for how to modify the legislation to correct the insufficient return of the environmental compensation fund and the wind canon in the municipalities affected by the installation of these parks? That the cannon is set by the installed power and, if it cannot be now, it should be modified so that it can be done. Now that much more powerful mills are introduced and the collection of this fund established by its Government in a completely opaque way acts directly on improvements in municipalities and local communities affected by the installation of parks. Something that is fair when the Galician Wind Observatory reports that local income for landowners where wind is installed is only 5% of all billing generated by these parks and the so-called billing -- as we all know -- is multimillionaire. Why don't they reinforce environmental guarantees? Today I read everything that's happening with the inventory of wetlands, which you don't want to introduce new wetlands, could it be precisely for those wetlands to defend themselves? To defend our territory and the natural heritage and the future of our productive sectors, there are multiple complaints that we have received from collectives throughout Galicia about how wind farms are appearing across the territory without seeing an order and planning by our administration, with projects that in most cases have no future. We watched the presentation of projects throughout Galicia fractionated in front of the eyes of the Autonomic Administration, violating the Vigilant Legislation. And it's already the fourth time I ask you about what's planned, for example, in the Outes, Mazaricos, Black and The Bath district; and then we weren't familiar with the other projects that are currently appearing, where there are already four parks and if you're planning a lot more with their evacuation lines -- that we also have to take into account --. And you still don't see fractionation. And what about the projects they want to develop between Orders, Curtis and Mesia? Four supposed parks that should be one, there's no fractionation either? You don't see it either in the plans of the Ten, or in those that are planned near Betanzos? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the reality is that there are judicial judgments that speak of this fractionation. The protection of the territory is inadequate with the deployment and refuelling of the parks in places too close to the dwellings, 500 metres established by a sectoral plan which is obsolete when the size of the wind propellers increases exponentially, and other autonomous communities, such as Asturias or Valencia, set 1,000 metres away to their homes. That's right, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. In Galicia, social and environmental conflicts and convictions against wind ups such as those in Mondoñedo and Lugo are growing. And, as I told you in previous debates, they talk about farm farms, such as those of areas I referred to earlier and that today or yesterday they denounce their own agricultural organizations. They talk to them, to the gainful farms that are making an enormous effort to develop an extensive and ecological activity, and that they see how their activity is at risk for the installation of 200-metre mills at the doors of their exploitation without anyone in the Galician Union opening their doors to their concern. And that's happening right now, and then they're talking about leaving the land. We only ask them to listen to our requests and make every effort to sit down and review Galicia's sectoral wind plan, which dates back to too many years and could be the basis for a new consensus that we have seen opposition parties asking for initiative. I'm asking you again to reflect and listen to the multiple groups in Galicia, asking for help in the face of the defence they feel in front of the big companies. That they listen to the rural councils and local communities, including many of the people's governments, who see how their resources are exploited without receiving the desirable benefit between citizenship; and that they listen to the winning industries and farms. They're in time to deal with a new wind model to correct the deficiencies that the system put in place by you leave on the table. You decide, take part in citizenship or let big energy companies not share profits with the territory and our rural community, even though they later stay -- as I have said on many occasions -- their partners for the board of directors. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u79	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u80	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Presas, I fail yours. I fail to agree with the Socialist Party, its support for its governance, which has been the one who shuts the thermals down in our community, who has been ruling for three years without a solution for Alcoa, and who has now passed a law declaring the closure of Ence, in addition to many industries throughout the sea-industrial chain. It's your fault! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, you are seeking consensus. You come to seek consensus and appoint your initiative by attacking a Government that has been ruling for 12 years thanks to most of the Greeks and all the Greeks. But, listen, how do you come to request a consensus with a false speech, with a false speech, Your Honor? Politically and technically an extemporaneous, old-fashioned, obsolete speech in relation to a technology like wind energy, ladies and gentlemen, which has achieved a very high technological evolution in which Galicia is leader above all thanks to the legal security of the Government of Galicia, yes, gentlemen. And you can't come here to talk about two judgments and condemn an entire sector with a multitude of projects, Your Honor, which are successful in our community. Look, a partisan speech for the simple fact that who rules in Galicia is the People's Party. And I'm not going to talk... yes, I'm going to talk about the fateful, failed contest, the wind of the bipartisan; a contest, gentlemen, that would subject Galicia to an economic ruin because they wanted, they wanted the administration to participate as a public administration of projects that suffered a seizure by a socialist government, the government of Mr. Zapatero, which caused the tariff deficit, a hole, that is a hole, in the energy sector of all Spain, Your Honor; that's the difference. And we, when you talk here about a lack of management, I'd like you to hear that we have a totally strong sectoral wind plan. No, it's not from the last century, Your Honor; totally current, with areas and wind polygons in which wind farms develop. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you know that it's within these wind polygons where most wind farms develop, and only projects are carried out in other areas when they are priority initiatives or projects of more than 50 megawatts processed by the state. They know it's totally false, that no wind farms can be installed at any point, anywhere. First, because we have to have wind resources. Secondly, because we have to meet some demarcations, we have to take a few distances to a rural core, to an urban core, to an urbanized one. And third and most importantly, because we need to guarantee the protection of environmentally protected spaces, such as the spaces of the Natura Network, those of special landscape protection or even those of the Santiago Road, where wind farms cannot be installed. And it's hard to take them seriously, Your Honor, for it's very difficult, because in their longing to criticize everything they fall into the reality that no one believes them. No one believes them because they criticize everyone and each of the wind projects that try to implant in our community. But the truth is, you might wonder why when you ruled you kept that sectoral wind plan. And not only did they keep that sectoral wind plan, it's more, that their wind contest contained wind polygons that were in that sectoral wind plan. I ask myself that question, why did you when they ruled not change it, because you when they rule do the opposite of what they say when they are in opposition. You're talking here about lack of environmental assurance, another fallacy. See, environmental legislation in Spain is very secure, it transposes the European Community directive. There is an Environmental Law 21/2013 which is used to process in Galicia and in all Spanish communities. So in Galicia there is nothing different than what is not done in another community in Spain. Some rules that have never changed, they haven't changed either with the Business Implementation Act -- no, Mrs. Presas -- or with the Act of Reactivation that you have opposed. Wind projects now and as before are only allowed if they are compatible with the rest of economic activities and with the defense of our biodiversity. And, look, this government didn't put any wind farms into operation on Nature Network, and it was this government that passed a law, the Law of the wind sector of 2009, which prevented the installation of wind farms in spaces declared as areas of special protection and environmental value, or that were part of the Natura 2000 Network, and only possible repotencing was allowed. And in 2014 that ban was referred to with the approval of the Natura 2000 Governing Plan decree, which expressly prohibits the deployment of new wind farms in the Natura Network. And in the history of this government, ladies and gentlemen, there are only three repotentigations on the Natura Network that have reduced the air carriers in those parks by 90%. Because yes, technological evolution, they talk here about very high mills, but they don't even talk about what has been reduced: when 10 aerogeors were installed, now in their place one is installed; that's the technological evolution that you hide, too. But, of course, it's just that as you ruled, you hear, because they, gentlemen, did set up parks on Natura Network. Six. And you know who? Look, out of shame, that gives it to me, I'm not going to name the companies of the electric oligopolis, gentlemen, which you have granted them wind farms, out of shame, because it gives me, Your Honor. A little respect for everything. When it comes to the issue of fractionation. Look, I actually don't have time here in 5 minutes to tell you about how a wind farm is required or how it is requested to communicate with the wind farms evacuation networks, which, by the way, that evacuation connection gives Spain's Electric Network, not the Government of the United States. I understand that you will understand that there are a number of distances and parks that are reviewed in the environmental processing, within a radius of 15 kilometers and that all connections of these parks are reviewed. And these parks obviously have to share infrastructure, evacuation lines, electrical substations. And more than anything... man, Mrs. Presas, I understand that I'm not going to teach you this because obviously we wouldn't understand each other, we speak a very different language. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I'm watching for what I'm watching... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, it's very complicated. I was quiet, I didn't say a word while you intervened. A little bit of a fit, as our president says. Play it. Play it. [[Applause]] Your Honor, the BNG theory is that there would be only one wind park in all of Galicia, because like all networks, evacuation lines and substations are connected, because we would have only one wind park in all of Galicia, that's the theory of BNG. Or, if not, what BNG wants is on the other hand that there are different evacuation lines, different substations increasing the environmental impact. What's your theory? And I'm going to ask you some questions during my speech, Your Honor, because I've been an energy spokesman for five years in this House and I don't really know what the energy solution BNG proposes to the part of the Greek tariff, because that's his only proposal. Look, the Act of Reactivation. The Act of Reactivation doesn't change, it doesn't change any kind of legal guarantee, neither technical nor environmental of wind farms. Moreover, the Act of Reactivation reaffirms that what needs to be followed is the plan, the wind farms have to be implemented in the wind sector plan of Galicia, in the polygons and in the areas defined in the totally effective wind sector plan, fully transparent to everyone who has access to it, Your Honor. It does not allow parks that do not meet the distances to rural, urban or urbanised nuclei. And it also doesn't allow this law to install parks where they can't be installed, for example on Nature Network. That it wasn't you, it was us who approved that parks could not be installed on the Natura Network, Your Honor, that's the difference. What surprises me is that this law, which they have opposed, that they oppose all the laws this group brings here, I don't know if this law doesn't matter to you, because you demand here that business initiatives bring with you a job, because this law says that at least 25 jobs. But you voted not to this law, and you also voted not to that priority, for example, self-consumption facilities, Mrs Presas. That too, which I understand will be the technology they defend, that you, the Nationalist Block defends, because it's really hard to know what technology is, because not the thermals, not the wind, not the colonial hydraulic energy, which is their theory. Hey, what's left of us? Candle light, Mrs. Presas? Because, really, it's very complicated to take them seriously, because it's totally... I beg you to come here and tell me what technology is and how it should be implanted so... look, it doesn't produce any kind of impact. [[Murmurs.]] Look, when they say no citizen participation. But the wind sector plan and all the projects can be consulted on the web, you can consult at the premises of the Union, the municipalities are fully informed, Your Honor. When do you say there's no deal? Most of the landowners, in fact, transferred it to the councillor, 85% of the landowners, even 100% in many parks, agree with the deployment of the parks in their mountains, and mountains in which there might be no other possibility, there would possibly be no one because there will not grow a tree, Your Honor. That's the reality. When you talk about the municipalities, I suppose you, the mayor of Walls who, by the way, give lectures around him, because there are many wind farms installed there, which you say, what would you think if we took the wind farms out of there now? Would you be happy? I couldn't lower your bill, like you assumed, to your neighbors, right, right? And you come here to say they talk to people, but what do you think? That we don't talk to people? But we're ruling with 42 Members, gentlemen, we talk to people, we win the election. Please, a little respect! [[Applause]] It's good to come here and teach us lessons they talk to people about. Look, we're also talking to their mayors, there are mayors in our province, Mrs. Presas, who are going to install wind farms there, mayors of their political formation that are in favour. And ask him whenever he wants, when he wants to meet you and me with him, to see who's right. Please inform yourself, Your Honor, we do speak to the people and the mayors. Don't come here to tell me your mantras. What I would like to highlight is that, of course, what you were talking about, I was saying, is that Galicia is the leader in renewable energy. Look, Galicia is a leader in wind renewable energy: Place is Spain's second province with more generation of wind energy; The Coruña is Spain's fifth province. And we want all our provinces to be leaders. Always, of course, fulfilling all legal, technical and environmental guarantees. And don't question this government or the officials involved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u82	...that they do all the environmental processing, because they're leaving in very bad place, Your Honor, very bad place, not only Galicia, but all the personnel of the Administration who process these projects, that in most cases it takes three years to go forward with a reactivating law that you're going to do is activate them and that it's in less time, because it can't be that we've taken years to get the projects forward, and it won't take any kind of warranty, Your Honor, or the environment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u83	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u84	...not legal. So, understand, I pray you answer me to some, especially technology, because I really would like to know which one you defend. Because some will have to be willing, right, in the second round you answer me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u85	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u86	For my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u88	Thank you, President. Well, starting with the Socialist Party spokesman, I appreciate his constructive tone. There are indeed many questions that differ from the wind model that defends the BNG of some issues that the Socialist Party defends, but indeed our motion has emphasized concrete issues to solve three serious problems in our country and that it was not the declaration of the Greek Republic or the expropriation of the electrical system, which would be issues that, without giving up to them -- I also say -- it seemed to be the central listening to Mrs. Novoa, who was a little more altered. [[Applause]] I'll try to answer your question, Mrs. Novoa, if our president is flexible in time. But, by going to the issues that you tried to mix in that batburrillo, starting at the end, they accuse us that we do not want consensus, the group that hasn't even tried to present an amendment or ask for a point-by-point vote on some of the issues that are so basic that they ask themselves, such as improving Galician Wind Log, which doesn't even link their documentation with project documentation or publication in the CEO, because it doesn't even something as subversive as the People's Party is willing to negotiate. [[Applause]] That's the consensus you have, at last... [[Applause]] And who repeats itself is, indeed, you repeat yourself so much that it even stood with the chip of the previous legislation when we had 5 minutes and not 10 to position ourselves in the initiatives of others. But anyway, I'll try to give you an answer. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, they accuse us of being... we repeat here a false and false argument. I wonder if it is false or false that Isobat went to the heel in Galicia and that he was saved in Castile, a strategic company for the wind sector; I wonder here if it's true that Siemens is dislocating thanks to the industrial policy of the People's Party; if it's obvious that Naturgy and Iberdrola will close with the silence of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] And he says we also say false technical and political issues. And, starting with the mayors, I, of course, don't know if he talks to his mayors is you, Mrs. Novoa. I don't know if you've spoken... indeed, as you have more mayors you have to recognize Caesar as Caesar's, I'm not going to quote all the mayors who in the last few weeks of the People's Party went out publicly against projects, but without going any further: Tuesday, April 13, and today's newspaper with statements by the mayor of the Popular Party of Curtis for a project in this area. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In my first speech, I also mentioned the issues of the Marine Biosphere Reserve in this area of our country. It talks about project fragmentation, it talks about affectation to the Natura Network zoom zone. Of course, now you understand why it was the People's Party's own Government who left the expansion of the Paralyzed Nature Network, now we see what his intention was. [[Applause]] Then you say you are the kings of legal security with the judgments that are falling. That the judgments do not speak ill of the energy sector, the rulings speak ill of the Government of the People's Party, speak of the environmental deficiencies and even speak of the affect... of course, came to mention here the Way of Santiago. [[Applause]] Not even the Way of Santiago, which is the number one obsession of the Government of the People's Party, saffron of this wind offensive, Mrs. Novoa. [[Applause]] I mean, of course, he even said to talk about inaccuracies, that in 1997 it wasn't the last century, it was the last century, it was another technology, Mrs. Novoa, and that's why yesterday's sectoral wind plan isn't worth today, yesterday's not worth today. [[Murmurs.]] And we, indeed, have been very proud since the government of the attempt to change the model that we drive, Mrs. Marta Novoa. In addition to this attempt and since then technology has been transformed, today an electric mill does not have the size it had yesterday and therefore environmental processing has to contemplate this issue, Mrs. Novoa. And one question is that infrastructure is shared and another thing is that these parks should not be subject to an integral evaluation, because they consist of the same industrial project, not 3, 4, 15 or 12, to do a processing with a law or another, Mrs. Novoa. That's the question, and I think I could even share it with Rajoy's cousin. [[Applause]] Anyway, by the way, by the way. Of course, you have even drawn a breast from this Law of administrative simplification, the Law of administrative simplification which fundamentally changes the Law of regulation of the wind sector, which converts all the relevant country -- Mrs. Novoa, it is this way -- of installation, and by pulling it out even that they circumscribed it to the maintenance of employment, and spoke of these 25 jobs. You did what you did in that law was to lower it for the second time, because you did it in the Business Implementation Act, the amount of jobs you have to have an industrial project to benefit from the consideration of strategy and to skip municipal procedures and to have the blessing of the Board of Trustees. You will be proud that you are now required 25 when 50 were first required and when more matters were required, but we certainly did not share that model, because what you leave in this country is an environmental problem, a social problem and democratic control, but also an economic problem, Mrs Novoa. And in view of that, what we propose on this initiative is measures to regulate a new regulation and a new sectoral wind plan, measures to protect advances in the environmental cataloguing and to exclude the extension areas of the Natura Network for the installation of new mills. I put in the previous example, I spoke...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u90	...of up to 98 airlines who would go to that area that does not like one of their mayors; and we also propose on this initiative several measures to deepen transparency and citizen participation. This is another model that's not only possible, but it's a missed opportunity that we don't bet on it. So, they can come here and make the bataburrillos they want, try to caricaturize like the ones we don't talk about are the others, but they have more and more answers among their own mayors, in the mountain communities, in neighboring communities, in social, environmental organizations and even in the scientific community. That's reality and time will end up giving us reason. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's wrong? I didn't know what happened. What the hell? I don't know what the gesture was? Sorry, what are we talking about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, well, let's go to serious things. Motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, on the actions to be carried out in connection with cases followed at the National Court. No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u92	Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time we're talking about corruption here today, so I suppose we're doomed to repeat to some extent, but what we're not doomed to do is repeat the same mistakes because one of the characteristics of the human species is that it's capable of changing, and, if it wasn't possible, there's a moment for PP's opposition to the creation of a corruption commission of the People's Party itself, which is the second point of our proposal, it would be possible in theory to wake up now that the Board firmly rejects any form of corruption. In particular, she is associated with the party that supports her, so I anticipate that if any group wants us to vote for points, we will accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference between dictatorships, based on force, or the old regime, based on the hereditary privilege and coming directly from God the almighty father, democracy is based and founded in a certain sense of public ethics. That's why it's of great importance to the health of democracy that people who exercise politics, without leaving themselves to be people and, as such, fallible and imperfect -- I the first one -- behave in an exemplary way, especially in an unprecedented health and economic crisis that causes suffering in citizenship, strains social structures and questions institutions that ultimately support the state and democracy itself. And if public ethics was indispensable before the pandemic, in the post-pandamy world will be even more, because, the risk of exercising Casandra, a forecast that we have for the future very difficult times in which all of us should try to be up to it. In that line, more than a decade after the beginning of the investigation of the Gürtel case, which was deriving from a genuine maraud of legal plots and subtrails, with all we know today, that the risk of appearing as though it were not the same as we knew before, because the maraud of corruption of the PP is slowly, little by little, at least the ethics not of the state PP, but specifically of the Galician PP, as Mr Feijóo himself acknowledged when at the plenary on March 24, said, "Mr. Bárcenas wants to attribute dishonesty to the Galician PP." Mr. Bárcenas wants to attribute dishonesty to the Galician PP, a highly surprising statement, because we did not know that Mr. Bárcenas had special encouragement by the Galician PP, and that is why I ask you: why would Mr. Bárcenas attribute dishonesty to the Galician PP, as Mr. Feijóo says? What reason can you have for Barcenas to attribute dishonesty to the Galician PP and not that of Asturias, León, Aragon, Cantabria, Murcia... what do I know? What special reason do you have for animation? Mr Feijó also expressed his surprise on March 24 that he was asked about corruption when we were in a pandemic. But really the surprising thing would be not to talk about PP corruption when it affects the core of our democratic system, which is exactly what has to respond to this pandemic. In fact, if corruption is always worrying in a democratic system, today it is more worrying than ever because the economic and social hope of this country, of our country, resides in the next generation funds, which, if all goes well, will involve in 13 years the greatest laugh of extraordinary funding in our history. And the problem is that the PP is exercising in Galicia as the Administration responsible for managing much of these billions of next generation funds. And, with those reports of irregular financing, of envelopes, of payment by companies for public contracts, how will we not be more concerned about corruption of Galicia's PP than ever? How come we're not going to worry now more than ever? And they also want to limit Mr. Feijóo and Rueda's corruption of the PP to Mr. Barbaras' defense strategy, curious strategy when in the first part of the Gürtel case he was sentenced to 33 years in prison, so someone should tell him to change his strategy, because obviously that doesn't give him a good result. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the trial of the Bavarian case that is held in the National Audience, both the former leader of the Cristóbal Paez People's Party and the Bárcenas themselves confirmed that the last operation of the People's Party's B box was a cash payment of 50,000 euros made in 2010, and that it was from the PP of Pontevedra, and that the second said that Bárcenas was divided into two envelopes that would have been delivered -- according to the Bárcenas itself -- Rajoy and Cospedal. A payment in B, to PP's box B, of 50,000 euros from the PP of Pontevedra in 2010, when Mr. Feijóo was 4 years old. Not one, not two, not three. 4 years at most responsible for Galician PP! And Mr. Rueda, at the same time, as Secretary General. And if this is part of the defense strategy, as you say, of Mr. Paez and Mr. Bárcenas, I first remind you again, I have no choice left, that Mr. Luis Fraga, the nephew of his founder, a certain weight character to that extent in his party, who was 25 years senator, I think, of his party, said in the same judgment that Bárcenas deserves total credibility. All credibility! Luis Fraga completely trusts in Bárcenas. He did it and Mr. Pazos, no. It's funny. And I take it to ask you again why these two gentlemen speak of a payment in 2010 from Pontevedra, and not a payment from, for example, Soria, Badajoz, Albacete, León, Teruel or any of the other multiple provinces in this country. Why are you leaving Galicia, according to them, the last payment? Is it because Galicia, being a fundamental piece, a fundamental political piece of the People's Party, is it also a fundamental piece in the core of corruption of the People's Party? Is that why? But it also turns out that among the documents provided in the National Audience in the case of Barcelona there is a detailed, detailed and accurate relationship to the cent, of revenue amounting to 2 million euros, which was allegedly the accounting number B of the Galician PP, when Mr Feijóo was already President of the Party and Mr Rueda, Secretary General in 2006. Morted, bitten for 2 million euros when Feijóo and Rueda were already in charge at the Galician PP, and by the way, they didn't send little, they sent and they sent a lot. With these vimbios it is obvious that Mr Pazos does not believe what he said this morning that there is no clue, as you said literally, that he points to Galicia's PP, and that Galicia's PP has no relation -- as you said literally -- to Gürtel. Don't believe it, you don't believe it yourself, Mr. Paz. Because it's an obvious falsehood that shocks the reality and the facts I've just reported. Especially given that one of the Gürtel's top protagonists was Pablo Crespo, no less than former secretary of organization of the Galician PP. And Pablo Crespo himself, ex-secretary of organization, as I say, recognized in a Congress commission that Galician PP was involved up to the caches, not too little involved, was fully involved in the illegal financing of the People's Party. Just as he did in various interviews in which he stated that there were also about at his stage and that the illegal funding of Galician PP was well known and institutionalized. And Mr. Crespo is a true expert in corruption of the PP who has already accumulated convictions to 52 years in prison as a result of the Gürtel case and associates. A process with a judgment that speaks as proven by a genuine and effective system of institutional corruption, genuine and effective system of institutional corruption. Seven words that define the People's Party and which continue to produce episodes such as when the CESIF union criticizes, and I quote literally: "May the Rural Media Adviser consolidate Agander as the Public Employment Office of the PP" and once again sits at the centre of administrative nepotism, after blatantly plugting the Mayor of Fisterra and the former deputy Moisés Blanco. [[Applause]] And when that union itself issues a recent communiqué in which it requires the Government of the Union to "enter into the use of the Public Administration and instrumental entities, as a post office of close friends and exponibilities of the party that have been held off and without occupation." You shut your mouth, because you quote literally. Or when the ex-Junta delegate and Mr. Louzán are convicted of corruption a few months ago. I mean, Galicia's PP corruption is not part of the past, but it's, unfortunately and worryingly, fully at stake. Nothing else and we'll follow after.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u93	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u94	Good afternoon, Mr President, from all over Parliament. I hope it is not like the President of the Union, who is the only president of some Members. Look, this motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not the result of an interpellation, not only of an interpellation, but of a concern, not only of the bloc, not only of the Socialist Party, but of a democratic and political concern of the whole society. Because when a government party like the People's Party is convicted of benefiting from funds from a criminal organization, it's a concern. When treasury and managers of a People's Party -- party in the Government -- are convicted of receiving prayers related to contract adjudication, it's a matter of concern. When the People's Party is required by judicial bodies to clarify facts and destroy hard disks, it's a concern. When the People's Party uses reserved funds, public funds to destroy any evidence, it's a concern. When you use boxes B, when you use surpluses, it's a concern; by the way, I, in my innocence, when many years ago a gentleman with a trombone every day of the footprints shouted at us, "Mrs. PP, get on your knees, get on your knees," I thought he was referring to other things, not to surpluses. [[Applause]] Well, and in the face of this whole situation, what was the answer in the last plenary session of the president... on one side, it seems, of the country? Well, the answer was groovy, and the saddest thing that the answer was groovy is that it wasn't surprising or novice, that's what we could expect. And what did he do? So continue with that strategy of trying to spread, to say that we are all the same, that in the end and after the corruption of the PP as it is of the PP, but also in the Block there is corruption and even lying the bipartite, even lying to Fernando Blanco. And the truth is, it's more yawning, more petty than other times, because it was perfectly aware that the procedure against Fernando Blanco was filed with no criminal action, no criminal action at all. I knew perfectly well about that conspiracy that Mr. Fernando Blanco was totally innocent of the facts he had been charged with. I knew perfectly well that the report of the General Council of the Judiciary said that this innocent person and the person who did not commit criminal or administrative offences should be compensated for any suffering he had to suffer. And despite all of that, the president of the Union -- from one part of the country -- came here with that yawning response to a citizen's problem. Look, we're not all the same. But apart from that, a little bit of a soccer spirit after seeing Iago Aspas yesterday, I remember -- well, I have for myself -- that neither Christian Ronaldo nor Mesos says "we're all the same", who says it are the power stations that play hard, who play at the limit of legality. And just like here, an honest person, a law-abiding person wouldn't say, "We're all the same," that's what the corrupt people say to pretend that we're all the same corrupt. No, we're not all the same. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I also had a reflection for myself on those -- I say -- petty intervention and novice, novice or surprising, against an honest person; if what I was doing was -- and I'm still with the football simile -- the president of the board was trying to get the opposition, to become a center for the opposition, so that we could strike against a member of the People's Party who had been charged and who later became archival. Anyway, if that's -- well, they're polluting the environment -- well, anyway, that center, that questioning does it, the president of the board, doesn't do it; the Block could do it, but it doesn't play today. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] So the internal struggles that solve them at home, but of course, those who question their decency, their integrity is not this group, could do it, but it was the president of the board. [[Applause]] At least it's not this group today. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, then the indecency and shame in that strategy even of deceiving citizenship has been repeated today. It is true that the People's Party was not convicted criminally, it was condemned as a lucrative participant, but why, because it could not be, there was no such crime at the time when it was committed by legal persons. The criminal organization, SA; murder organization, SA; corrupt organization, SL, couldn't be convicted because that was from 2012 when it was registered, not when the facts of Bárcenas occurred. So, who did he condemn, the physical people: the treasurer, the manager... well, a lot more people. But it's not because they weren't innocent or because they had no criminal responsibility, but simply because they weren't legalized; 31 bis of the Criminal Code existed since 2012. I mean, for a matter of mere typification. And the line in which the interpelent was speaking, now the author of the motion, we understand that there is an empty content between political responsibility and criminal responsibility. Well they know it's not the same; one thing is political responsibility, much more demanding -- which should be -- and scrupulous, and another criminal responsibility. And there can be political responsibility without criminal responsibility. One case: imagine that there are some recordings where you can clearly see that a political officer is receiving prayers for a political party in exchange for the adjudication of contracts. If they don't remember, I'm talking about Naseiro, for example; that is, of course, there are recordings testifying to the commission of that wrongful one. Well, on formal issues of illegality -- which is not the illegality of proof -- they don't come to criminal proceedings. Is that person well responsible for politics? Is that person well ethically administering public resources? Well, you understand that yes, ethics, common sense and citizenship do not. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u95	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u96	Well, what then did he do after Gürtel?, continue and happen the same as Mr Naseiro himself had already begun. On the same line and by matters of time, do you think it would be nice if a person charged with 104 prevarication crimes -- of continuous prevarication -- could he continue to exercise his post in which he committed those crimes? What's more, does it seem good to you that, by holding that sentence, that person can give electoral myths, that that person can negotiate local governments? Do you think that's embodiment and upbuilding? We understand you don't, you understand you do. Finally, and focusing on the issue of the motion, there are indications of an accounting record of the past and present People's Party. There are suspicions that they used resources from the People's Party's B-box. There are suspicions and signs of illegal prayers in the country and in the country. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about democracy. They often talk about 42 Members... well, let's make it clear whether they've been duped into elections or not, let's not allow our democracy to have any kind of kind of doubt, because, as Martin Luther King said, "I don't care about the scream of the violent, the corrupt, the dishonest or the unethical; what worries me most is the silence of the good." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they don't cover these corrupt practices on which there are many suspicions, they don't participate, because they're worth more honor without seats than unhonored seats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u97	Thank you, Mr. Tabares. So, by taking off the gold sands, I would also tell you that this about environmental pollution is like the matter of cholesterol, with a few jokes. Little jokes. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tabares, what an exciting speech you gave us! What a pity that missed opportunity to apologize to Mrs. Prado, from whom your voice asked for resignation; to apologize to Mr. Baltar; to apologize to the high Sergas charges you threw down. [[Murmurs.]] What a shame of lost opportunity. [[Applause]] By the way, be careful when you talk about what listening is not used because you might have to look at Pokémon's and then the electoral dopage you're talking about has to apply it to you and not to other parties. Look, I want to start, Mr. Aranguena, agreeing with you, because we'll have to agree on something. And I want to agree with what you said that, indeed, Mr. Feijóo and I do not trust Mr. Fraga or anyone else, we trust in justice; what you prefer to trust in convicted criminals is you, but you will know why. In the previous plenary session I listened to his vicious intervention of sectarianism and lies, of half-truths, and I ended up convinced that you wouldn't be able to do anything worse in this House, but I have to admit that you always exceed expectations. And today he puts the vote on a text that seems even more embarrassing, frankly. He asks us to condemn corruption but especially corruption of the PP. Because, of course, you distinguish between first corrupts, who are those of the groups that do not support you, and secondly, who are the PSOE and its partners. And, in my opinion, this finds a rather sickly distorted view of those who trust their political success with the triumph of the bull and demand the same exemplaryness that they refuse to apply to themselves. Do you want to condemn corruption? Look, I propose that we approve, I bet you unanimously this statement -- yours -- "The Galician Parliament urges the Government to consistently reject any form of corruption," and you will count on our support. Look, Mr. Arunguena, allow me to make a brief non-exhaustive report on the cases of corruption related to PSOE in recent years. ACM case, Alhámbra, Aljabra, Aljara, Aljaraque, Allerá, Almenas, Almonte, Almonte, Almonte, Arces, Adviser, Astafa, Atarfe, Avales, Av, Ave, Comppetitive Naia, Bajo Guadalquivir, Beniferi, Allerva, Almenas, Almonte, Almonds, Almonds, Almonds, Almonds, Almonds, Almonds, Almonds, Almonds, Almonte, Almonte, Almones Almonte, Almones, Alonso, Alonso, Alons, Arc, Astar, Astar, Astar, Apostoferenia, Apartio, Apartio-Palquilá, Avevalia, Apulia, Almondabrabrabrabrabra, Almon case, Almona case, Almonte, Arc case, Aronsuso, Arco Arces, Arc, Arces, Arces, AAA, AAcon, AAcon, AAcon, AAcones, Acones, AAcones, Acon, Acon, Acon, Acon, Acon, Acons, AAcons, AA, AAcons, Acones, Acones, Acones, Avafaf, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avfa, Avveveveveveveveveveveveveveveveve, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av; Avveveveveveveveveveve, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Av, Avveveveveveveveveveveveveveveveveveveveve With these background, Mr. Aranguena, I had to hear here, here in this House, that in the PSOE they had nothing to be ashamed of. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] My question is, isn't that what's not embarrassing? [[Murmurs.]] Because I ask you: of these more than 300 cases of corruption that I just reported to you, and I repeat again -- yes, 300, 300, I count -- which do you consider to be undeserving of the House's special reprobation? Because the problem, Mr. Aranguena, is that your proposal is not a lapse, nor is it part of a drafting error. The problem is that this is part of the deep conviction that you have that corrupt socialists are less corrupt and are of better condition and, therefore, you have nothing to be ashamed of. The former president, and former president of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, said: "That's what the EREs were to help people." Of course! Because socialists are modern Robin Hoods who steal workers to help affiliates, friends and supporters. And, of course, I understand it, with that good heart, on the way because some socialists tried to help the most disadvantaged by buying substances forbidden to little camels and frequenting the company of some prostitutes, no doubt to help them pay through their services. It must be acknowledged that, as pious as the corrupt ones of the PSOE, they deserve all our applause. And I say more, and savers! And savers, because they still had money left -- as the mother of one of them said -- "to roast a cow that had money kept my son at home." Anyway, it's certainly a curious thing. I, Mr. Arunguena, heard how you had the boldness to speak in this House three weeks ago and today again of public ethics, and this at the same time that spread in your intervention some intolerable bubbles and a double rod of insumable measurement for anyone who considers himself to be a Democrat. You have unilaterally established a ranking of corruption, but I sincerely believe that you have mistaken the name of number one. You choose your choice: open cases, number of defendants, money defrauded, ministers charged or convicted. In every one of these categories there is a champion: the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. You have dared to qualify the People's Party as a cave from Ali Baba because you have two convicted ministers, two ministers! Two ministers, Mr. Mata and Mr. Mouse, whose behavior overwhelms me and my group too, and we ask for public apologies for the mistake we make in trusting people who did not deserve our trust. Mr. Arunguena, what do we call a party -- yours -- with five ministers convicted of corruption? Because I'm not going to throw threats into the air, I give you the name: Mr. Barrionuevo, Mr. Chaves, Mr. Grignán, Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez and Mr. Virgilio Zapatero. By the way, Virgilio Zapatero, convicted of the Bankia case, is so scandalous to you. You ask for exemplaryness with the president of the Galician Football Federation, but, of course, you forget that the only president of the Galician Football Federation sentenced to firm name is García Lineres, and he is of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Was it an example of his silence while he tied himself to the chair of a mayor's office in a lamentable show broadcast by all national televisions, shouting to a municipal secretary: "Shut up, what am I here?" Where was the secretary of organization of the Greeks and his highest sense of ethics, Mr. Aranguena? You didn't say anything. Of the liners bites, chitoon. From Mrs. Rumbo's conviction, I understand that you have a problem with the so-called Lines, but I'm referring to the other Lines which is also doomed. Liner bites in Lugo, Mrs. Rumbo, chiton. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Condemned by the mayor of the Porriño, chiton. Supplicatory of your successor to Congress, Chiton. Condemned by the mayor of Bembriva, chiton. And all the rest of the various accusations I named him this morning, chiton. Mr. Arunguena, is your silence exemplary on these cases? Are you an example of the measures that you have taken? Because you're number two from the Socialist Party in Galicia and we haven't heard a single word from you about any of these matters, some of which have had important news in the last four weeks. Mr. Aranguena, you're not an example, you're a good example, that's yes, of double morals, hypocrisy and cynicism, and that good copy will allow us not to accept any kind of lessons. By the way, by the way, we're going to have a certain fit, so that in the last 15 days, you've received a sentence in Lugo related to the plugs of certain officials and the illegalities about some of the officials they've launched, and when they've just received another plug-in sentence in the case of Vigo, where there's already an official convicted of plugging the brother-in-law of the President of the Pontevedra Deputy, and here comes to talk about plug-in! But where is the limit of your undoing? That I'm not talking to you about what happened eight years ago, I'm talking to you, Mr. Orange, about what happened eight days ago, and you don't say anything, and come here to teach. [[Applause]] It certainly turns out to be amazing. I, in fact, have recently received this sub-minister of lessons that you give us by qualifying the governments of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u100	...allow me, very quickly. Governmento Sánchez, a president with a plagiarized doctoral thesis, a vice president investigated for illegal financing and for theft of a mobile card to a collaborator, two ministers with opaque societies, a minister who hides a luxury housing, three ministers related to the Isofoton case, a minister who ceases a colonel for not revealing summary secrets, three ministers councillors of the Andalusian Board of the ERE, a minister linked to Delcy Gate, the same tied in addition to the Plus Ultra case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u101	That's enough.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u102	...a minister who appoints his mother's general director, an ex-minister dismissed by tax evasion, a former minister who has forged his doctoral thesis, and a minister who applauds sexual espionage. Bravo. Thank you for not sharing with us your sense of ethics, socialist gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Time's up. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Paz, you spoke, says you cited 300 cases. I think it wasn't that many, I think you'd exaggerate, because I wouldn't give him time. But indeed within that relationship, which seemed quite interesting to me, you spoke of the Menguele case; and I went to see if there was a Menguele case, I found only the Menguele itself. I don't know if you want to say that we have something to do with Menguele, that we shelter Menguele, that we are descendants of Menguele or anything like that, but I say no. And you also spoke among all that flap, of Salty Grands, well because I at Salty Grands once went fishing; aside from that, the truth is, I don't know what he put in Salty Grands, I think he exceeds my ability not only to understand, but also to be responsible, of course, of Gonzalo Caballero's. Because, of course, you mentioned here everything that happened to you, some things don't say they're true, some things that you said might be true, but in any case -- I insist -- they're not part of the scope or responsibility, nor of Gonzalo Caballero's, nor of the current address of the PSdEG. And you said that I emitted intolerable bubbles here, intolerable bubbles. He didn't say which were the intolerable bubbles, it would be good that you, when he says that someone emits bubbles, and they're intolerable, say what they are. And with all that you've been here a moment ago, says I've dropped intolerable bubbles. You tell me, another day, today you won't have a chance, but you tell me some intolerable bubble that I left here today. And I'm surprised that we suggest you reject corruption, all corruption, but specifically that of the party that supports the Government of Galicia. Well, we're not going to propose that you refuse specifically that of the party that supports the Government of Transylvania, right? Because we're in Galicia, and so if you're surprised at our proposal, you'll have to look at it. In any case, as you don't believe what I tell you and you don't tell me in which I lie or I emit bubbles, but you don't believe what I tell you in the form of fact stories, for I'm going to tell you in the form of siloxysms. Siloxism number one. If Mr. Luis Fraga, a witness to the Bavarian case, who has the obligation to tell the truth as a witness -- he is nephew of the founder of his party, and that I suppose it will be worth something in his party, is Mr. Puy's cousin -- he says that Bárcens deserves total credibility, and Mr. Feijóo says that Bárcens mind, with total probability who the mind is Mr. Feijóo, which, on the other hand, I don't think would surprise anyone at this point in Galicia. Siloxism number 2. If two people who have been admittedly wrong say in a trial, giving different and perfectly complementary details, that the last payment of the PP box came from Pontevedra in 2010, then the most likely is that the PP of Pontevedra had a B box in 2010, 4 years after Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rueda took the rent and were designated as top leaders of the Galician PP. Siloxism #3. If Galicia's PP had a box B in 2010 and considering that a party's box B is used, among other things, so we know, to pay campaigns, it's obvious that the PP was doubled to the 2009 elections. I wasn't here, I think you were around, and of course many of those present here... And in 2006, too. Siloxism #4. If a union, which is neither a political party nor has any connection with political party, says that the PP uses the Administration -- the PP, not the PSdEG -- public as an agency for the placement of friends and practice nepotism, and we see how the PP gets by plug, shamelessly, and without cutting off one of the top two militant hairs on Agader within three months, the most likely is that the PP practice today brazenly and systematically the large-scale nepotism in the Galician Administration. And I'm done with syloxysms, to tell you that every human organization, of course, is likely to have corrupt limbs. Kant said that "out of the twisted wood of humanity can't get out of anything straight," and therefore it's statistically normal that there are corrupt people in any sufficiently numerous organization, including Mr. Lines of the Hydrographic Confederation, whom I certainly don't even like to know, I don't know if Gonzalo Caballero knows him -- but I bet he doesn't, because they don't match in their stages --, I don't even like to know him. The problem is when corruption becomes the norm and not the exception, and the problem is when corruption is not something alien and distant as you intend to make us believe, but something that happens through Galicia and ends up in Galicia, and it continues to happen today in your party in Galicia, as much as you come to tell us about Menguele and Grands of Salilme. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u105	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u106	Let's restart the session. motion by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández Gómez, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the prices of the housing rental in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u107	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion:Amendment of amendmentThe proposed part of the initiative should be replaced by:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to cooperate actively with the Government of the State in the development of a housing law in order to guarantee:1. The establishment of mechanisms to curb the rise in abusive rents and measures to promote the supply of housing in attainable conditions for people with lower income and especially for the new population and the most vulnerable groups.2. To establish a new mechanism for holding and lowering prices, through improved tax framework, the declaration of tense residential market areas and the definition of empty housing in the regulation of the existing recharge in the Real Property Tax."]] To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u108	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There's a big question about this subject, and how much more do you have to raise the rent prices so we can say enough at once? Because in just six years the homes of the cities of Greece saw how they paid more than 20, up to 31% more for a rent. In cities like Vigo or La Coruña that means paying 3,000 euros more a year than six years ago. And what seems more worrying is that the rent price doesn't stop at all, not even at a pandemic. In Galicia today, 5% more than a year ago is paid, and this is the clear demonstration that market inertia is still spreading incomes, then pushing on home savings until they can't stand it any longer. And, in view of this destructive inertia in the market, we have the inaction of a government that looks elsewhere. How much more do you have to keep going up so this government assumes that this is a problem of extreme urgency? How much more money? How many more savings do you think you can bear people still paying for a good as basic as housing? I'm telling you, there are thousands of homes that can't stand anymore. Today there are 30,000 homes in Galicia that devote more than 30% of their income to rent, and from these nearly a third, almost 10,000 homes, to more than 50% of their income so they can have a roof. There are thousands of young people and girls who don't even show up in this data, they're invisible because they're still living in their parents' homes, because it's impossible to match the precarious wages with the abusive rent prices. And then there are those who can be emancipated, but when the housing eats you so much of the salary, one sees it impossible to undertake any vital project. It is difficult to sustain life in this sea of economic precariousness. And if it fits, the situation is even more dramatic for those families where there are children, and paying the rent means getting rid of other basic things; or when you just don't get there, when you can't afford it. And in 2019, in Galicia, there were over 1,800 homes that suffered an eviction because of the loss of income because they couldn't cope. And the more the price of living, the more people are in this situation; the more bubble grows, the more the savings of homes and the simpler the life expectancy: emancipation, being able to form a family, guaranteeing your family a decent housing... the most basic and essential things. And the Government of Unity has the skills in housing, and a decent government cannot be allowed to continue this escalation of prices, because the economy of thousands of homes no longer supports this bubble. But also for everyone's sake, because we know that an economic model that settles and depends on the speculative character of housing is an economic model that brings social, economic and environmental catastrophes. And at this point, after such a systematic crisis, we should have made it clear that taking action today, changing the model is also to avoid tomorrow's crises. That's why we bring this initiative that aims to achieve an agreement from all groups of this House to look at itself as a common goal to limit these abusive prices and start walking towards the transformation of the real estate model. And here we also have the example of other European countries who have experienced strong crises linked to the real estate sector and who have decided to change their course, who have decided to protect themselves by reducing the speculative nature of the housing. And from the experience of these countries we can also learn another important lesson, because it allows us to see that, in those countries where private housing occupies a very high percentage of the total housing, that model is a failure. And that, on the other hand, when the housing provider system is more balanced between the private sector, the public sector and even an intermediate sector, a third step of a private but non-profit nature, when the real estate model settles on these three legs in a more balanced way, that model has a double virtuality: on the one hand, it guarantees access to housing to lower incomes through public housing, but also, on the other hand, at the same time, the price of private housing is more contained, because the rest of the suppliers act as a counterweight mechanism and containment of the prices of free housing. But back to Galicia, what model do we have here? Where did we get the policies of the People's Party? In Galicia, 99% of rent houses are private homes, we have one of the worst scenarios in all of Europe. And that private sector monopoly is what allows them to keep up prices to squeeze our incomes without considering the social consequences because there is no alternative. That's why it's fundamental to increase the percentage of public housing, so that there is a non-speculative housing alternative that acts as a counterweight to the free market. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is irrefutable that transforming the composition and distribution of housing providers into renting is a decisive factor in securing housing, in curbing prices and bringing us closer to the European context. Increasing the public housing park must be the strategic horizon of all groups of this House. But in addition to this measure, there are many other measures that can also contribute to making the rental accessible and which also have to activate. And also because in our context it is of particular relevance, and I explain, why is this particular relevance? Because we have a very, very low public housing park with less than 4,000 dwellings, so that, as long as the Union had decided to expand the public housing park to reach significant percentages that actually allowed us to see background results, it would take us years to reach those figures. And people's lives can't wait, people's lives can't go on stand by; we can't keep letting people earn half the salary to pay a living. That's why it's just as urgent, just as necessary to start expanding the public housing park as adopting tactical responses that are quick, effective and adapted to our reality. [[Applause]] There are measures that would allow us to act already, for example, measures that cause the mobilisation of empty housing, that housing which is unused and which is mobilized towards the rental market, so as to increase the supply of housing and help lower prices. We have the state's empty housing record with 300,000 empty dwellings, and only between Vigo and La Coruña account for about 40,000 homes, according to the last census. We can convert this problem of empty housing into an opportunity to place on the housing market quickly. Obviously with measures that take account of the type of owner, because they can't be the same measures in the cases where we're talking about a bank, a large investment fund that uses the housing to speculate that in the case of a worker who has put all the savings of his life in a housing to leave it to his children. I'm not the same owner. We can also push measures that help increase the rental aid that allows lower incomes to reach by the end of the month. You have done something absolutely indecent, which is to eliminate rental aid in the year 2020 in the middle of the pandemic. They removed the general rent aid and rent aid to under 35 years of age. We have to increase investment in aid because there are a lot of people who depend on them. It is also necessary to study specific timely measures to control prices in areas with tourist pressure. This type of pressure in the Welsh case is very timely, but it must be analysed, so also in our initiative, we ask the Galician Housing Observatory to make a report, a study in which a detailed and territorialized diagnosis of price variations and their causes is made. And it is also necessary to put in place measures to protect tenants from the abuse of owners, which are unfortunately increasingly common. Instead of just putting on phones to advise against occupation, they could also put on phones to help against the abuse of tenants. [[Applause]] And these are the great lines that we understand you should walk the Government, which were used to give an immediate tactical response to the problems of rental prices in Galicia. Now, said this, it is so urgent, there is so much need for a great deal of agreement on this issue that the proposal we bring to you on this motion is a minimum proposal. What this motion aims for is as simple as important, that the Government assumes that price escalation is a problem; and that therefore the Government assumes that to put brakes on it must be a strategic objective that serves to guide housing policies. But so that the debate on how it is not an impediment to this initiative going ahead, we are prepared to be the German Government itself who brings the proposal to this House. The only thing we demand is that they undertake to bring in within six months a plan for an accessible rental where they make concrete proposals, measures and forecasts on price reduction, increase in public housing and aid. So let it be the German Government itself who proposes how. We want this to be clear. Today we are not going to vote on specific measures, but whether or not you are committed to halting the price escalation, whether or not you are committed to changing the real estate model at once. That's what we're going to vote on with this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Fernández, of course there is a problem that no one denies, I think neither the Government of Galicia nor the Government of the State. We share the diagnosis of the problem, which is common in Galicia, is common to other autonomous communities and also in other countries. We share that it is necessary to be able to develop effective policies, effective public policies, and therefore to reduce the problem by taking correct measures. And that is precisely where these measures must be taken. And we believe that we should walk towards a well-designed framework, sure not only legally, but also to ensure the success of the proposed measures. And that framework I'm referring to must be based on the collaboration of the Government of the State, of the autonomous governments, who are and will be ultimately responsible for the implementation of the measures that are designed, and also of the determined and indispensable collaboration of the local administration. You have given enough eloquent data that you have already commented on in your inquiry in the past Plenary, but we also understand that on the part of the Government of the State if you are working on a new Housing Act that is going to respond -- we understand -- the objective of making public housing available to people is lower income, especially to the new and most vulnerable collective population, by cutting down on the abusive price increases, which translates -- as you said accurately -- into rents above the economic capacity of families and which are also concentrated in certain populations. Mechanisms must be established to curb the rise of the abusive rent and a set of measures to promote the supply of housing in attainable conditions for people with lower income, especially the new population and the most vulnerable groups -- I think this is something beyond all discussion --. And also that these measures should focus on improving the tax framework, declaring tense residential market areas and changing the definition of empty housing for the application of the existing recharge on immovable property tax. And all of this must necessarily stimulate the offer of rent housing, which currently concentrates very mostly -- and you also said it -- in the hands of small owners for whom rent is not a major economic activity, and therefore contribute to containing and lowering rent prices. In this proposal in which we are working and we understand -- as I have already said -- that is the right framework, we have taken into account the regulation in income systems tested in other countries, such as Germany and France, even the United States, that have not proved effective in terms of price retention and that if they aim in the short term to cause a contraction effect on supply, which rightly means, as is logical, the opposite effect of making access to housing in rent more difficult, especially for the most vulnerable. And this proposal is not about something empty, but about a report published by the Banco de España in 2020 entitled Public intervention in the housing rental market, a review of international experience, which explains that in recent years there has been an increase in rental prices precisely in residential areas that have experienced remarkable growth, mainly in metropolitan areas of the most advanced economies. I increase that is associated with a relative shortage of rent housing supply in the face of a remarkable increase in demand, among which unfortunately include low-income households and those headed by new adults, and which is mainly located in cities and geographic areas where economic activity is the most dominant. All of these factors explain this increase in rent price as a result of that offer. And that report also analyzes, as I said, the result of the limitation measures. Therefore, tax measures to encourage the offer of rent are based on the fact that the property of the dwelling is very largely, as I have said, small owners, mostly private, for which the renter is not the main activity, as I have said. And these owners are obviously more likely to respond to tax incentives in the area of income tax for natural persons than to the containment of rent. And that's why five mechanisms are planted: First, the declaration of tense residential market areas, which will be through autonomous communities and municipalities, which may declare in their area, in accordance with their regulatory regulations, tense residential market areas in which there is a particular risk of a certain insufficient housing for the population in attainable conditions. And that tense market statement provides in principle for the three-year project which can be extended annually. That statement will necessarily lead to the implementation by the competent administration, because if it did not fully sense that statement, a specific plan of action for correcting the imbalances that are evidenced in its statement. It will also be necessary, and it is a repeated debate, which is a debate on what a great political agreement is needed to see that we consider a great tenor of dwelling in tense areas, because the only definition that is currently being made in character, if they want, as a matter of urgency in Royal Decree Law 11/2020, which takes further urgent measures in the social and economic field to deal with Covid-19, on the automatic application of the moratorium of the lease debt in the case of large holders and public undertakings. And there it is defined as a great foreman for these purposes exclusively the physical-legal person who holds more than 10 urban real estates, excluding garages and warehouses, and with an area built of more than 1,500 meters. As far as tax measures are concerned, you know that there is currently a 60% reduction in the net income of the usual housing rental, which is logically equivalent to 40% tax. And this measure at its time assumed a significant increase in the supply of the declared rental, which obviously proves the effectiveness of this measure. Therefore, you propose to introduce changes to your regulation to favor the moderation and lowering of rental prices by concentrating its effect on areas with greater supply problems. And that proposal comes to 90 per cent bonus, which obviously amounts to declaring only 10 per cent of the benefits, in cases taxed and relating precisely to the limited rent, or even lowering the price for the underprivileged population. No less important is the definition of empty housing for IBI reloading purposes. I, in my experience in the previous legislation, have on several occasions attended debates about recording additionally the empty housing, but obviously any Administration needs a legal framework that defines precisely when a housing can be considered or cannot be considered empty, and from that clear regulation, it would be when that additional recording could be applied. And complementary measures to strengthen the right to housing in areas under stress with priority implementation plans, with housing aid programmes to victims of gender violence, people who are the object of the denial of their usual housing, homeless people and other particularly vulnerable people, in addition to significantly increasing the availability of a sufficient rental park at an achievable price, which goes in line with what you propose in your motion. That's why our parliamentary group has introduced a motion that I can understand that, in the light of its explanation, we can even withdraw it, because you say that in your motion there is no concrete proposal. What happens is that when you talk about lowering the rent prices of the main housing in the free market, facilitating access to housing to a greater number of Greek homes, you can understand that, of course, the interpretation is what you explained, but you might also understand that you were talking about a price limitation, which would be contrary to the result, to the effectiveness of these public policies, as I said earlier, based on that comparative international report. And so if you're saying that what they're trying to say is that the government is proposing a battery of measures that we are presenting in this Parliament for which it is to lower those prices in the sense that this discount is not about the rent that the owners charge, but about what the person would ultimately rent, I think we could reach an agreement because, indeed, I think that's the purpose. As for the statement of strategic objective that you intend with regard to the reduction in the rental price within the housing plan 2021-2025, we agree. And, with regard to point 3, to elaborate by the Vivenda Observatory this detailed study and diagnosis, we cannot agree any more, because obviously anyone who looks a little bit at how certain measures are taken for the purposes of pricing and access to housing policies proves how, unfortunately, all reports to which can be used correspond either to clearly outdated data temporarily, in the sense that they are reports of years ago, or to real estate portals whose information may be doubted whenever they take as reference what owners are asking to rent a given housing. So in that sense, I repeat to you, I believe that, if you clarify precisely what you mean, we would withdraw that amendment and vote in favour of your proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u111	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u112	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs Fernández, the truth is we're already losing track of the times we've seen both in committee and in this whole particular theme you have with the housing and with that theory of now we call it reduction but it's intervention. Turning again and again to an issue that we have already explained and detailed by active and passive from the People's Parliamentary Group and from the German Government itself. You speak of consensus, I don't know that more consensus wants a social pact for the housing that worked with all the social agents. That's consensus. And yours is stubborn and lock, that's the difference. Because it is always to question the work of others, but without presenting new initiatives and, above all, taking into account the new economic and social scenario that is open to us, in view of this pandemic situation. Do you know what you're doing? To get rid of the argumentary of the nationalist book, that's what they do. They are now insisting on intervention by the real estate market, by reducing rent prices. Call it what you want, Madam, but after all, we're talking about intervention. All a great idea to tension a market that never needs legal certainty and security, whether it's owners or tenants. That's why this Popular Parliamentary Group will take advantage of its motion to tell the Greeks and the Greeks again that the Galician Union is opposed to the intervention of the rental market by the negative effects it would have. A positioning contrary to any rental price regulation that also holds experts. Mr. Álvarez referred to that report by the Banco de España, which is strange to me, Mrs. Fernández, that you do not know, and the consequences of the regulation of prices in those countries where it was applied. I'm sure you know them, but the conclusions you're not interested in, but I'm going to tell the Greeks and the Greeks too. The Banco de España report says that control over rental prices has a negative impact on the rental supply, including: the reduction of housing available on the market; the reduction by the owners of maintenance costs, which will create a housing stock -- and thus is corroborated -- in poor living conditions; changes in housing composition to escape the regulation; segmentation of the population of certain groups and areas of cities according to the socio-economic conditions of their inhabitants; reduction in the mobility of workers who do not wish to lose a rental below the market price; and even increase in market prices in those areas or dwellings which are excluded from the regulation. What happened, Mrs Fernández, in Paris or Berlin? I think I reminded him of the last commission we had in March. In Berlin one in four owners withdrew their apartments from the market; and in Paris they evaporated 15% of the offer of rent housing. But we don't have to go to Europe, we can go to Catalonia, which since the entry into force in September 2020 of the autonomous law regulating the price of rent, the offer of this kind of housing has sank by 10%, increasing demand pressure. It may be funny to you, because it's very typical at the Nationalist Group's bench that laughs, but the experiences are negative and there's the data. But now it's not only the experiences of Europe, but also that strip and pull that there is now among the Government's partners on the future state law, in which, in the light of this motion, you are also participating. And, above all, I want to remind you, that it's important, United We can and you also want to regulate the rental prices, while the PSOE goes through the tax deductions line. So, I think you forget something, that we need that state housing law, of course we need it, but I also think that... maybe you forget us, gentlemen of the opposition, that the main point of friction and lack of understanding after the agreements you signed is exactly the rent. I don't know if it'll cost you a bit to get to that deal. And then also yesterday afternoon when the Socialist Group's amendment came, Mr. Álvarez, with regard to the declaration of tense markets, we understand to ourselves that it has transcendence, but what we need to know is what consequences this statement has. If it is to limit prices, we do not consider it obviously appropriate. However, the Galician Union, and we hope that soon that state law will arrive because we will solve many problems, that we define for example the concept of empty housing, of what we have come to talk about, because on the basis of that definition and in application of the Local Farm Law, the municipalities can apply the charges to immovable property taxes. And, in any case, we consider from the People's Parliamentary Group that since the Galician Union, these incentive policies are regarded as more effective in favour of the setting up of these empty dwellings, but we need to know what is meant by empty housing. We also want that legal security for the owners, of course we want it. We want to be confident that if you pay the rent on time, we want to be confident that the homes will be returned to the state in which they were rented. Ladies and gentlemen, although they have exclusive responsibility for housing, the real estate market in Spain is a free market which does not regulate the Union. The dynamics depend on the evolution of supply and demand in each area and moment. Do you really believe that these measures can be formulated in already rented or freely assigned housing by the tenant and the tenant? Perhaps they think so because in the end and after all their speech is that it's always the same, and sometimes, Mrs. Fernández, even incoherent. I don't know from here, I just see him and probably... but I tell him. Incoherent because you come here to demand the increase of the public housing park when the Town Hall, for example, of Pontevedra, I think governed by the BNG, I think, has converted a parking lot or plot, the plot of Valdecorvos, which was donated free of charge by Xestur, to build protected housing. Here it is. You could have increased that municipal public park that they talk about so much, but they understood that the problem was in this case the cars and they preferred to make this plot a parking lot. [[Applause]] So, Mrs. Fernández, a decent Government, as the Government of Galicia, as the Government of the European Union is, lives the reality, being fully aware that access to housing is one of the main concerns of citizens and, in particular, of the most vulnerable and youth groups. The German Government is working, speaking with specific programs to ensure access to housing in rent, 10 million euros in four programs aimed at people with a difficult economic situation and, above all, those that are especially affected by Covid. Since March 31st we have the rental aid aimed at facilitating access to maintenance to its usual housing. In two lines: for the general population, up to 200 euros or 250 are over 65 years old; and for the under 35, up to 250 euros. And right now -- look if it's decent -- they charge it with more than 5,000 people, who are receiving this help. And just as the German Government is not alien to the impact of the pandemic, a special effort is being made for those people who have difficulties in making rent payments. Since April 6th, aid may also be sought for those who are in a situation of special vulnerability to Covid, now reaching more than a thousand beneficiaries. And by 2021 the program has more than 2 million euros with two news: simplification -- well needed -- and speeding up the procedure. And, on the other hand, the payment mode; instead of month to month, it is changed to an advance payment with a single payment. In addition to these two new lines, I'm sure you know, too, because we've talked about it on many occasions from direct help to rent, such as the Social Rental Bonus and the Social Rental Bonus for victims of gender violence. It should also be noted that during the year 2021 the rental bonds will be supplemented to 100% of the income costs of the beneficiaries, with extraordinary help of about 2 million euros. We're talking about private people here, but Junta also helps municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants: rehabilitating housing for rent, promoting the construction of new housing for rent. And Junta acquires and rehabilitates homes in historical sets also destined for rent, and also offers help to public and private promoters for rent. It will therefore increase this public housing park composed today of more than 3,700 homes, with new rehabilitated homes, with new buildings and offering residential alone especially in the urban surroundings such as La Coruña, Ferrol, Lugo or Pontevedra, if for the case that leaves the parking lot aside. And in Vigo with San Paio de Navia and 62 public promotion homes that will be delivered this year. While the Government of Spain goes and comes and you come and you go, the Union of Galicia has very clear its housing policy in rent: not to intervention in the market, which would only look for more tensions and problems, just at least we need it with experiments mostly already broken. And if we want certainty and security, and if we want measures that promote housing rent, increase the autonomic and municipal park, and facilitate access to the housing of citizens in general. And all this is already under way, Mrs. Fernández, without having to wait to draw up any affordable rental plans because citizens can't wait. In view of what you propose in your motion, it seems that you are left with time, but to the Greeks and to the Greeks that represent this party, this People's Parliamentary Group and the Galician Union cannot wait. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u114	Mrs. Díaz, I think you are not aware of the headbreakers, of the tension, of the pain that is creating in society the increase in rent prices. I don't think you're aware, because to say here they're sick of us betraying this subject is shameful. [[Applause]] Tell the boys that they can't be emancipated, tell the people of my generation that they can't decide whether... vital projects as basic as having children, because you don't know when you're going to have to go home with this job market, which you don't know how you're going to have your life five years from now, that you don't know. [[Applause]] Because prices don't stop going up and there's no limit. And tell the defeated families you're forced to go through the entire eviction process to give them some kind of help. It's a shame you say they're sick of us betraying this subject. Then you bring here the mantra of imported debates, because this is not the debate that we are opening in this House. The debate on price limitation in Berlin and European cities, or even the one in the state, is not the center of the debate in Galicia, because there is another real estate model, because there is another type of real estate park that requires concrete and specific measures for our case and that is what we wanted to put on the table. The question of price limitation is especially considered for the contexts of real estate markets where they are so tense and that there is no offer, such as large cities such as Madrid, Barcelona or other European cities, where there is a problem of supply and the only way to intervene is by limiting prices. But in the case of Galicia we have an empty housing park that, as I said in my speech, is a problem but it may also be an opportunity to intervene there and try to lower the rent prices. [[Applause]] The empty dwelling, we have in Galicia the empty housing record. And the case of the empty housing in Galicia is not only a phenomenon that takes place in the countryside, because even in the most populated cities in Vigo, La Coruña, the two cities account for 40,000 empty dwellings; therefore, there is still capacity in urban spaces to intervene through empty housing. What can we do there? To intervene with fiscal pressure measures to those large owners who are dedicated to speculating with the empty housing. And there's an empty housing census that I won't tire of repeating to you, an empty housing census that has driven the board of directors where the big owners are linked to the financial sector, to whom we can demand that they put that empty housing on the market, so that we increase the supply and help lower prices. There are other steps that can be taken, such as aid to rehabilitation, but which also distinguish by type of owner, because you provide help to universal rehabilitation without taking into account who the person on the other side is. Because he won't be the same small owner, who's not able to reform his housing because he can't afford to give, as you're going to do, 8,000 euros to the banks to make reforms. You have to distinguish by type of owner. [[Applause]] The measure of price intervention may make sense in some punctual cases where there is a tourist pressure, but, I explained it in my first intervention, that in the case of Greek are very timely cases. In any case, you'd have to study, is that the problem is that you know better what Berlin data is than data from Galician real estate park, because they don't report from Galician Vivenda Observatory. [[Applause]] And I already knew you'd come here with all the imported excuses of a debate that isn't the real debate we have in Galicia. I knew you were going to hang on to those excuses, so I made it easy for him; they suggested that you make the proposals to help lower the price. If they don't like what we have, they make a proposal. The point is, you don't have any proposals. Because the question they don't want to answer is how long will they continue to accept that they will continue to raise prices to intervene? [[Applause]] Until you say yes to brake prices, so you say yes to change the model. My question is, in the People's Party, do you have a tip? When will it seem to you that it has already been enough to raise the rental prices? Because every tenth, every percentage point that rises the price is more people left out of the system. I'm telling you that, people who are out of the system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u115	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u116	Because when you can't get access to the housing for renting a private provider, in Galicia you have no alternatives. A person who can't afford to pay the housing at the price of free housing, what are the options you have in Galicia? You can try to find a public housing, a real hate, because there are 4,000 public homes and a register of housing claimants with 15,000 people collapsed year after year. You can wait for years and years for that alternative. You could opt for a rental aid, but, of course, the Union decided to pay the rent aid by 2020. In 2019 they only reached 600 young people and 1,400 people, when we're talking about 10,000 Greek homes paying more than 50% of their rents. [[Applause]] And at the very end of the case, I could opt for a Social Rental Bonus, but to opt for that Social Rental Bonus, one of the conditions is that the eviction has been executed. I mean, the condition that the People's Party puts on a person who can't cope with the rent is that he goes through the process of defeating and going through this whole traumatic process to receive a tiny help of 200 euros, while you're giving the big owners 8,000 euros for a rental contract with option to buy. It's indecent. [[Applause]] These are the options that a person has that he is not able to deal with the rent, or you pay the price of living or looking for life.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u118	He's looking for life because they can imagine that no one wants to go through a defiance process. You really confuse as we propose to you with the general objectives that we have, which is to reduce rent prices with concrete measures; and it's a confusion of interest, because you're trying to find excuses to say no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u120	To say no to something so necessary. I want to ask them, how many crises do you think you have to go through to decide once and for all to change a model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u121	Thank you... thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u122	...economic and real estate that drowns families to the fullest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u123	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Motions vote We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Noa Presas. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the wind sector situation in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. We are now voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Aranguena. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangüena Fernández, on the actions to be carried out in relation to the causes followed in the National Audience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u124	Excuse me, yes, Mr. Pazos?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u125	We made a proposal for an amendment in your voice to make a general condemnation of all kinds of corruption in the House and we don't know whether or not to accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u126	Mr. Aranguena doesn't accept it. Then we vote. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Alexandra Fernández. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Alexandra Ferández Gómez, on the performances to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the housing rental prices. Mr Álvarez told me to withdraw his amendment; we therefore voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Institutional declaration I'm going to read them an institutional statement that brings the groups to me for the International People's Day. And it says: "We celebrate more than one year on 8 April, International Shit People's Day, a celebration marked this year for the 50th anniversary of the First Shit World Congress, held in London, in which the symbols of the Shit People were adopted: the blue and green flag with a red wheel, and the Gelem anthem, Gelem. In Spain we had to wait many years to move forward in institutional recognition. The request of the Congress of Deputies, the Government of Spain recognized 2018, on 8 April, as the Day of the People of the Shitano, as well as the use of the flag and the Gypsies anthem. Fortunately, more and more institutions and people add year by year to this celebration in a symbolic gesture of recognition to a cultural identity and to a history and culture barely known to most of our society. A history of resistance marked by persecution, rejection and discrimination, but also by Gypsies and Gypsies who have contributed from different areas to the cultural, artistic, social and economic development of our country. One reason for celebration is that we will finally see the history and culture of the Shit people in schools as part of the educational curriculum. The new Education Act, even if late, somehow comes to repair a secular injustice: the invisibility of the Georgian people in the historical trajectory of our country. This celebration of the 50th anniversary comes after more than a year of pandemic, and this Shit People's Day we want it to be also a heartfelt tribute to all those people we have lost this past year, especially a tribute to the elderly, to the fundamental loss of families, men and women of respect, who have been able to transmit to generations the values and pride of the Gypsy identity. But the health crisis we have experienced this past year has not only brought many of our most loved ones, but it has brought with it a worsening of social and economic conditions for those Gypsy families who were already in a state of poverty and social exclusion. It prevented them from making a living through walking sales or they were driven out of a labour market that lives from precariously. The Gypsian student, already behind the media, was largely relegated to the digitization of teaching. The crisis was especially hard for those who still live in settlements in very vulnerable neighborhoods. And we must not forget that rejection and discrimination, and especially the speech of hate on networks, has given way to the Gypsy community during the pandemic, signaling it often as a focus of transmission or as a failure to comply with standards. Little by little, things changed and, despite progress, Gypsies and gypsies continue to be behind and the long distance from the rest of society in the enjoyment of fundamental rights such as decent employment, quality education, decent housing or a right to non-discrimination. The institutional recognition of the Gypsy people, but also the guarantee of equal opportunities and work for the Gypsies and the Gypsies, must be an effective commitment by the public authorities to the celebration of this 50th anniversary of the establishment of the Gypsy People's Day. A commitment that at this stage of reconstruction and recovery of the country following the crisis caused by the coronovirus must be translated into concrete measures to reduce inequality, combat discrimination and advance in the rights and citizenship of the people of Georgia. Let's not wait another 50 years to repair this historic justice. April 2021". Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Approved by consent.]] We continue with the agenda, in this case now appearances. Comparison of the Rural Media Adviser, on his own request, to report on the general forecasts and lines of action of his department and actions regarding the evolution of Covid-19 Mr. Rural Councilman, Mr. José González Vázquez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u127	President, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon to all and to all. It is an honor for me to be here today, at the home of all the Greeks and the Greeks, to take note of the work being carried out by the Conseilería do Medio Rural in this new legislation. We live in a unique and historic era, a difficult and worrying era, and we've been living with a global pandemic for more than a year, with all that this implies. And I want to make it clear that today, even if it's my appearance, I'm also listening, watching what the attitudes and proposals of the other parliamentary groups are. I want to, and I say this with all sincerity and honesty, that it's useful how long we're all investing this afternoon. And, at this point, I raise a first question: Can we agree or must the opposition always be customary against the actions of the Galician Union? Because, we could come to legislating agreements, we could -- as already proposed in this House -- understand the flames in a way that we can share measures, and I wonder if in this case we will add some effort to the fight against this problem or we will return to the usual tone of opposition. We could also understand that rural support is needed with proposals in the Galician Agricultural Land Recovery Act or the sectoral strategies that are under way. With the law of recovery I want to transfer my thanks to the parliamentarians who are working on it, because I know that a great effort is being made to try to improve this law through the amendments. We could also understand that the defence of the interests of our farmers and farmers requires that all of us in this House adopt a common position towards negotiation for the future CAP, with projects we all know what they will do or should do larger Galicia, such as those presented on the basis of the next generation European funds, and then I will transfer to them those who have presented the Rural Environment Council in relation to the primary Greek sector. But in addition to listening, we also have a desire to move here, with the transparency that characterizes the German Government, the lines of action of this council. Those lines of work will not change in this legislation, because we, our strategy for the rural environment in Galicia, are clear, concise and long-term. Now, they're adapted lines, flexible lines, which can be plastic to assume the unexpected that arise and arise, or will continue to arise, in the coming years, or to assume -- why not -- the changes that deal with legislate agreements with opposition groups. In any case, these are lines that always respond to a previous schedule. And so, and speaking of this scope, I'm going to start my exposure to those lines of work by planning. And I want to refer to the strategies that we have planned for different sectors of importance in our primary field. Firstly, as you know, it has already been published and transferred to the sector, the strategy of dynamisation of the dairy sector, which seeks to consolidate Galicia as one of the main dairy regions of the European Union with a competitive, sustainable and resilience capacity. We redouble our efforts to improve the profitability of the sector by increasing the territorial base, along with the processes of partial concentration and those that will bring with it the new Law of Recovery of the Land of Galicia. And this increase in the territorial base of our farms must also ensure their profitability. But we also work in the area of strategy in regulating the Pastoral Milk brand, which will act as a differentiation element to address new niches; it will be before the end of the first semester of this year what is the regulation of this brand that, as I say, is collected in the strategy. We're working to strengthen the industry's professionalism, and so we're also close to putting into operation a computer app so that the payers can calculate their production costs, do comparative studies on the sector and have the greatest capacity to negotiate contracts with the industries in selling milk. Because we, of course, believe in the Food Chain Act, which says that prices can never go down under the cost of production, and I would add in addition to the corresponding profit margin. So what we have to give them is tools to our owners so they can objectively defend that cost of production. Another one of the strategic lines that are beginning to be implemented is the one that argues that in the fields of processing milk products our farmers participate in companies. And so I want to acknowledge the good work and the recent news that we've had about that society that is being done between the owners of Our Milk and the Chinese Oviganic group to be involved in a complaint. I also want to move them that at this time we are working on other projects of similar characteristics that involve the shareholders of our processors. A strategy that also comes through the axis of training and innovation. And I also want to transfer that, by fulfilling that strategy, next week, we will start with a specialized training for our milk farmers, primarily referred to accounting, financial and fiscal knowledge, as entrepreneurs who are. And we advocate, as it cannot be otherwise, in the strategy for diversification of the product that generates value added and that assumes transformation here in Galicia. This strategy was made with the front, but working in close collaboration with the sector. And here we hear the hand of producers, industry, distribution, ultimately to consolidate a reference dairy sector within and outside our community. Sectoral strategy, the second one I want to highlight here today, that of the wine sector. We're talking about a strategic sector of the Greek economy, of the Italian countryside, a dynamic and internationalized issue. I'm only giving them one data, one out of every four bottles of Welsh is sold out of Spain. We speak, ladies and gentlemen, of more than 13,000 winegrowers and nearly 500 wine cellars billing 200 million euros. And we are going to promote this sector with the strategy of economic, territorial and tourist dynamization of the wine-growing districts of Galicia, which is already spoken and worked with the sector, and which will be presented in the first half of May. It's also a sector-wide strategy, working with the sector, which involves the commitment of the Greek Government to the positioning of our wines. We're looking here to maintain quality standards, drive internationalization, and address those challenges that arise from generational rebound or climate change. A strategy with a budget of EUR 700,000 that included the participation of the two Vice-Presidents -- the First Vice-Presidentship and the Second Vice-Presidentship of the Union -- and the Rural Environment Council, and which seeks to strengthen the international, tourism and territorial dimension of the Greek wines. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you can't talk about wines in Galicia without talking about the territory of the wineries. I would also like to point out that this commitment to the wine sector affected by Covid-19 is also tangible in the approaches to the restructuring and conversion of vineyards, the production and marketing of wine products, promotion in third countries or, clearly, constant support for regulatory councils. Aids that the Rural Council has made available to the sector these years and that has been added last year to the Vendimia loan in 2020, which I announced will be renewed in 2021, and all the years that are necessary for our wineries to be able to absorb the effects of Covid-19. And within this strategy, and already finishing up with the wine sector, two key issues for our sector. First of all, the updating of the Italian vineyard register and the necessary generational rebound of our winegrowers by the way of implantation of vineyard polygons from the application of the Law of Recovery of Galician Land. I'm going to go to the governing councils of the five denominations of origin by asking each of the proposed polygons of up to 200 hectares by name of origin to start them as soon as we have passed the law and have those perimeters determined by the designations of origin. And I'd like to finish, as far as sectoral strategies are concerned, with which we are going to start soon as well, is ligating its implementation, which is the sectoral strategy of the meat sector, a sector that is very important for Galicia and which, of course, has much to improve in its field of action. Finally, three key sectors of our farm that will count on long-term planning, before the end of this year 2021. There's another essential question for our agriculture within the planning field that I would like to talk to you today and transfer to you precisely what is the position we have at this time in the German Government, which is the model of the CAP for the next run-up period 2021-2027. We continue to advance in the work, in the configuration of the CAP with loyalty to the central government, but also with the utmost firmness in defending the interests of our farmers and livestock. And I would also like to move them here that we have support points, because we have a common position of the cantabrian cornice, that is, signed by Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria and the Basque Country, but also consensual with the main Greek agricultural organizations, and I quote the Galician Labour Union and Agricultural Unions. Last week we had a bilateral meeting with the Minister of Agriculture where we made it clear to him what our road map was, I say, how, I repeat, a consensus position with whom I previously moved. We have made it clear that our wet Spain territories have some peculiar characteristics to contemplate in the CAP. There's a majority of small and medium-sized farms of a professional nature, but they're eminently familiar. In addition, the minister says it's the kind of agriculture and I would like to say that we have to defend in Spain. And we also have a clear productive orientation towards livestock sectors like milk, and that makes us from then on different to the rest of Spain, at least to other parts other than the cantabrian cornice. We therefore demand that these peculiarities be taken into account in the design and implementation of the future CAP. But I would like to warn this House, today in Galicia, that at this moment of negotiation the CAP has a clear Mediterranean orientation, and I will argue with it. First of all, the ministry -- I'm sure you know -- defends the expansion of new surfaces, that is, it opens up the possibility that CAP aids are paid to other crops, which up until now were not contemplated, such as vineyards, fruit and vegetables, essentially from the Levante, without any kind of counterpart to the cantabrian communities. From Galicia we demand the ministry at last week's meeting that, before opening the CAP to new crops, the current situation be regulated, which takes place on many of our farmers and livestock, who do not receive the aid of the first pillar for all its exploitation. So you'll have to regulate the situation of those who, like Galicia, are the one that has the worst data of course as the eligible surface before it's opening up to new crops. I think there's no difficulty here that we all assume this position, and it's also the position of the cantabrian cornice. Secondly, the echoes that are going to assume an important part of the help of the first pier, which we do not oppose, of course, the echoes, but at present they have a design that does not favor farmers and livestock in the northwestern peninsula; of nine schemes only two would be applicable, and one that we ask to encourage the silvopastor for now is not contemplated. Thirdly, the operating aid limit was not adopted with the intensity that Galicia benefited. We demanded a capping, a limit of aid per exploitation of EUR 60,000, and in the European negotiation that was endorsed by the Central Government it remained in 100,000. It is true that there are other autonomous communities to which this does not affect them, but it does affect us. And finally the redistributive payment, which is that we devote more money to the first acres; we defend it, the minister said that he would apply it intensively to 20%, but it must be clear, and this is a position that we must all consent, that we will have to take the surface according to Spain's average surface. That is to say, to support small and medium-sized farms considering Spain's average area; otherwise, it will not favour the Greek farmers and livestock for anything. Here, of course, I would ask you -- we can, in turn, speak long and tender if you want this -- a position of the parliamentary groups on this issue, because I think it would give us strength towards further negotiation, which, I tell you, will be in May, there by the end of May we will have the sectoral conference in which these issues are determined. Also, speaking of planning, I'm not going to extend much to him because we talked about it just over a month ago, the Galician Forest Plan for the period 2021-2040, which has already been debated in this Parliament, and which I should, and I beg, have the support of this House and the representatives of the Greek citizenship, based on commitments of green transition, biodiversity, climate neutrality and responsible consumption. I would also like to refer, from the planning issue, to the projects presented by the Next Generation funds. First of all, I would like to refer to the fact that the Rural Environment Council has just introduced or published a call for demonstration of interest for autonomous projects that seek the involvement of the Greek primary and agri-food sector itself so that they present initiatives that we can go up to the Central Government's Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience. I would also like to take advantage of the move which has expanded, since there is a great deal of interest on the part of companies in the sector, the deadline for this event has been extended until 30 April. Here we aim not only to be able to present more projects to the Next Generation funds, but also to define, which helps us define the knowledge of these projects of our companies, the strategic lines of action in rural Galicia over the next few years. Finally, we seek economic reactivation in the short and medium term, and the transition to a sustainable and durable economy in the long term. And I want to refer, though briefly, to the pole for the transformation of Galicia; it is presented by the Union as one of the candidates to be part of the PERTE funds that would have access to the Next Generation funds, has four transversal projects and four other tractor projects that meet the great challenges that the Central Government has set, and I quote: the ecological transition, the fair transition, the digital transition and the fight against depopulation and the demographic challenge. Well, in this field of tractor projects, I'm going to mention three, specifically related to the area of the primary sector in Galicia, and because they're also tractor projects and they're betting on public-private collaboration. First and foremost in the forest area, we bet on closing the cycle of wood production in Galicia through the launch of a biofactory of textile fibres of a sustainable character. I'm going to point out a lot and explain this in a sustainable way. Through this generation of added value, we seek to improve better by managing our mountains, betting on multifunctionality and also on forest biodiversity, because that's one of the requirements -- biodiversity -- of wood that can then be used in the generation of that fiber to make fiber sustainable. The total investment between biofactory and complementary projects, all related to the improvement of forest management, is around EUR 1.2 billion. The biofactory will cover an investment of between 800 million and 900 million euros, and those other projects that will strengthen sustainable forest management account for 300 million euros more. The biofactory would have a production capacity of up to 150,000 tons a year, which would come along the way of producing, as I said before, sustainable cellulosic fibers that already exist in the market and that are globally recognized. And I quote some example of these fibers, the oil or the modal, which I repeat are fibers that have to fit into that sustainability, and that they also always require certified wood and that they believe the sustainability through the biodiversity pathway of the mountains from which this wood comes, which has to do with clearly also the guidance of the 2021-2040 Forest Plan. These fibers are true that they will have as the primary raw material the wood of our mountains, but they will also be able to combine with certain wastes such as textiles, agriculture, paper or cardboard, to bring a concept of circularity to the project, which also reinforces it very much so as to choose the next generation funds. Finally, a very important initiative within the bio-economy, uses the most advanced procedures, always ensuring sustainability. I repeat, both as regards the process of obtaining fiber, seeking the lowest possible consumption of water, as well as in the management in our mountains, from where the wood is going to proceed. The second tractor project that opts for the Next Generation funds within the pole for the transformation of Galicia and that has to do with the primary sector is the search for a large volume of land left today in Galicia, up to 18,000 hectares, through the instruments of the Agricultural Land Recovery Act in Galicia, which is currently being processed in this Parliament. These tools will help boost bio-economy and promote quality of life in rural Galicia. In this project, which will mobilize in public-private investment around 600 million euros, we seek to support the agricultural sector's agents through this land recovery process so that they can have a transition to more sustainable practices, ensuring their economic viability and, above all, the availability of a territorial base so necessary and so demanding, that by all means it is the basis of the new Recovery Law. We intend to enhance that land, to produce it, to improve rural resilience to climate change and forest fires, and also to contribute to improving the quality of life in rural Galicia. The project, in addition to 18,000 acres, also envisages a strong impulse from the model villages to a 200 number, as a mechanism for population recovery and struggle against the demographic challenge. Therefore, within the negotiation of the Galician Agricultural Land Recovery Act, we can among all work to ensure that there is access to the Next Generation funds in the part that corresponds to public investment in this tractor project. And I quote a project that has to do with more than the primary sector, which is the Circular Economic Impulse Center, which seeks to ensure the principle of waste management for its transformation and valorization into products of the highest quality. In this centre, as far as the primary sector is concerned, the remaining purins would be the object of obtaining as the highest quality final biogas and fertilizer products, and those fertilizers would have as their primary recipient the main target of the primary Greek sector. I failed them before the first pier of the CAP, but we are also working on the Strategic Plan for the Implementation of the EAFRD funds, the second pier in collaboration with the University of Santiago de Compostela, as a fundamental basis on which the design of the support tools that this Administration can have in that period 2021-2027 for our primary sector will be established, and also considering that we use the manifestation of interest that I told you earlier to receive the projects that can help us design those lines of work, those lines that will ultimately help our companies. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, this whole planning complements itself with a legislative body of different rules that we have at this time at work, under drafts, or in Parliament, without any doubt the most important to me, and I am sure that for those we are discussing it, the future Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia. This law leads me to the axis of recovery. And we know that there are parts of the territory where the main problem, or one of the main problems, is abandonment. We can talk a lot about the causes, but basically that abandonment is given by the parcel of our community, which has historically been trimmed through the partial concentrations. Nearly 75% of the Galician rustic surface is composed of small scattered plots belonging to landowners who are mostly off the countryside. This is a great puzzle that explains that an important part of that extraordinary soil in productivity, because it is not abandoned or worse, but that on many occasions the soil of an agronomic capacity, as I say, extraordinary, explains that it is abandoned and not taken advantage of. From the Rural Council, we believe that we must work to reverse this situation and, along with what we were already doing, we clearly support this recovery through the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia, which, as you know, is also expected to be approved this May. I, I've said it before, I repeat again, we're doing a lot of work, you tell me, in the presentation, and I'm very pleased with the contributions that are being made towards improving the text of the law, because here, gentlemen, we have no other purpose to succeed and, if we succeed, we think that we can soon lay the foundations for a good recovery of much of our territory. As I said, it's a law whose tools I think are being known, they're proven in practice through pilot projects, and that it's an ambition to decrease the degree of plot, to make available to all those farmers and farmers who so demand productive land, or to allow, why not, that new entrepreneurs willing to invest in rural have wherever and how to do it. A legislative reform that promotes the mobilization of underutilized land, seeking to reduce the degree of abandonment and increase the territorial base of our farms, which, as I say, is one of the main concerns of the Rural Council. We are faced with an action bet that allows us to recover areas of land in use, with the assurances that they will develop agricultural and forestry activities with added value, because we also support and respect the three uses: agriculture, livestock and forest, and we want to do so -- rural recovery -- with profitable economic activity, because only so, in addition to putting our rural in value and getting profitability out of abandoned lands, will help prevent fires. We're talking, finally, about cross-sectional axes, a whole view, in which this normative instrument is a key piece in the recovery of abandoned productive soil and the placing in value of Galician agricultural land. But this law, ladies and gentlemen, also wants to work in the territorial management of rural Galicia and that's why we take the land use catalogue, which aims to carry out an integral planning of rural territory and its uses. We demand and wager for an orderly use of the economic, environmental and social agricultural areas, which is also a demand of rural people and also of all parliamentary groups. This was clearly seen in the commission that we had on the occasion of the October 2017 fires, it was a unanimous demand for this catalogue tool to be launched. But we also want to work on Russia's property research and the consequent updating of the catastrophe, which is another unanimous demand of the people who live in rural areas. And we have to continue to give this fundamental importance to the mobilization of abandoned lands, always -- and this for me is very important -- so that legal security and economic profitability are guaranteed both for the owners who have to charge for the lease or sale of their lands as well as for the recipients; and here, always with the brokerage of the Land Bank. And we ultimately seek to support the joint management of land with joint management groups; the development of these public brokering mechanisms, such as the Land Bank or the Exploitation Bank, which seeks the transmission of profitable land holdings that are going to be run out of activity; model villages; or agroforestry polygons, which are going to be launched immediately as soon as the law is passed, as I said before, as soon as we have those perimeter proposals and some that we are already hosting. Finally, the law also brings with it the perception that local actions must contribute to making it resistant to forest fires, through the way of light-collar polygons, and then if they want we can influence them, but also with any other land-use action, which will be made whenever possible with technical criteria for the prevention of forest fires. A good example of this that I'm telling you is the Galician Shepherding Plan, which will reach 2,250 hectares, and in which at the same time we continue to focus on encouraging the management and value of our pasture, also for these pastures to act as a natural firewall on the territory. We seek to achieve the goal that rural people can also live with it, because from this council we want rural people to be the engine of Galicia's growth coming. And, at this point, I'm still with other fundamental lines of the Rural Council for this new legislation, and you know why they are the ones we bring to this Parliament and we continue to develop. And I mean quality. In this area, I want to talk to you today, in a fundamental way, about the updating work of the Food Quality Act of 2005, which will come as a bill this year 2021 to this House and which we will soon have to process your preliminary draft. The future Food Quality Act will be the standard that governs the differentiated food quality in Galicia, improving, integrating and developing its regulation, and reinforcing the value of quality products through support for designations of origin, protected geographical indications, but also other protection figures. Then I'll talk about some of them. With it will promote local development, job creation and productive diversity, and in time it will be assured to consumers that the product offered has passed rigorous quality checks and has been subject to special care in the production and marketing process. In addition, it will be the object of this rule to determine the obligations of operators in Galicia, as well as to regulate the conduct of inspection and control of the autonomous administration, among other objectives. I want to emphasize that we are the autonomous community with more designations of origin and protected geographical indications that account for the position of our products and act as a reference to that quality. And we're also the first autonomous community that regulated Galician food craftsmanship, the frame of reference where we find the principles that allow us to call something artisan and protect the craftsman. Because in what he is truly artisan, he finds himself a long tradition, a great dedication and an untiring impulse. Therefore, the Union bets for art, for health and, of course, for Greek, for Galician food craftsmanship, a more Galician axis, of that Galician agri-food quality that we will also see this same year in its phase of joint promotion of all quality Greek products. And I wanted to also refer to Mercaproximity, as a mechanism that during Covid was a success, no doubt, for the consumption of proximity. Because proximity consumption is quality consumption, and we as Greeks know it well. And finally, I'm going to refer within this first intervention to another of the fundamental lines of work of the board, which is prevention. Yesterday in Verín we presented the Forest Fire Defense Project at the Hispanic border of the Lusa, a project for me as a reference and exponent of institutional, municipal, provincial, autonomous, national and international collaboration, because we have the collaboration of the Portuguese authorities as well. We are facing an unprecedented project, probably within the PodTec which has been granted to the Iberian Peninsula of the most powerful from the budgetary point of view. It amounts to EUR 9 million which will enable the construction of the first border air base. An improvement of resources as well as a unique and versatile public service, as well as attitude, professionalism and coordination of professionals who protect us from fires. In this respect we are deep in a fundamental issue because prevention is to anticipate itself, but it is also to count on the means needed for each place at every moment. And we're talking about District 14, which you know is a district, if not the one most affected by the fires in all of Galicia. And, as I say, always prevention, prevention and more prevention. But prevention and training. This year, we approved, in agreement with the representatives of the workers, the training plan with an budget of EUR 400,000. But we also invest in specialized training and we are starting work for the future Integral Training Centre, for the Forest Fire Prevention and Extinction Service, which is located in Toén, also in Ourense province, as I say, for its impact on the firecracker. And the immediate post is going to start soon, as soon as the incorporation of staff has also taken off, of the 2021 prevention plan, with participation and involvement -- and I want to thank all the members of the service -- of all their staff. And, taking advantage of this appearance, I also want to present today the fire data in 2020, which, because of the first, the pandemic and the Covid-19 and, second, by the election call, was impossible to move. And I don't want to miss the opportunity to make them public here in the Galician Parliament. As for media data, efforts invested in human and material media with a device very similar to those of previous years were maintained for the campaign last year 2020. We're talking about more than 7,000 people in total, 360 motorcycles, including other land-based media; troops, including civil protection personnel, the State Security Forces and Corps and the Army. And in this sense, I also want to remember that last month we delivered 11 more motorcycles to the Junta mobile park, which were already distributed between the different districts. With regard to the deployment of ground personnel, the permanence of more than one month of the discontinuous fixed troops was strengthened, we spent 5 to 6 months, fulfilling the commitment we made in 2018. Thus, nearly a thousand fixed discontinuous employees further reinforced the excellent Service of Prevention and Defense against the Galician Forest Fires. We doubled, ladies and gentlemen, their working time since 2017, when only one quarter remained active. And we continue to bet on collaboration with other administrations, because the fight against fires is everyone's responsibility. And I want to make reference, and I think it's also very important, that it's already 269 -- of the 313 municipalities we have in Galicia -- the municipalities that are known as the Village Protection Convention, which is looking for -- and it's signed between the Galician Union, the Fegamp and the Seaga -- to facilitate management to the municipalities, municipalities, the biomass of the secondary fringes; as you know, it's a competition from the municipalities, but the Union works there with 7.75 million euros, to make available to the municipalities a public service to clean the secondary fringes in exchange of 350 euros per hectare for the owners, but it also gives you additional tools, as it can be a computer application to control the completion of the cleaning work of the subsidiary fringes, the SESVIO; or a viewer that allows you to check the status of these ones, and therefore, which also makes it very easy to manage them. A very relevant fact, ladies and gentlemen: through this agreement we have processed municipal plans to prevent and defend forest fires of 232 municipalities at no cost to them. I mean, 86% of the municipalities that adhered to the agreement already have a plan when before this agreement we practically had no council that had the municipal prevention plan. And today -- I say -- we're in 232 and 86% of the convention. I hope this year we finish the plans of the 269 Town Councils. I also take advantage of this point -- and speaking of all this -- to make a call to cooperation, because in this area it is essential that all administrations -- autonomous, provincial and municipal -- be empowered to avoid double costs for citizens. And, referring to the balance of the evolution of forest fires, I have to say -- about the number of forest fires and the data of the 2020 campaign -- that 1,538 forest fires were registered in total, fires that claimed 14,837 burned hectares, of which 1,964 were wooded surface and 12,872 were planted. The data are clear, observing the historical series since 1989, we clearly see a decrease in both the number of fires and also the mean acres. And I want to move clearly that any acre that burns in Galicia is, of course, a drama for us, it's worrying. But anyway, the data are what they are, and here we move that in the three-year 2018-2020 we lowered the number of fires to a quarter of that historical average that previously moved them, and the acres burned to a third of the historical average. And I would also like to move as important as the download data that is happening in the percentage of the tree surface on which it is burned. I repeat, it's always a disgrace that burns a single hectare, but the data is the one we're moving. I'd also like to make it manifest here, because we're on this show today, the data we've got in the year 2021. And in the period since 1 January, a total of 255 fires took place, with an affected surface area of 1,032 hectares, of which 294 are treed and 737 are flat. I'd like to give a transcendental data, in 2021 of the 255 fires 81 were produced within the hourly range where they can't act the air media, almost 32% of the total, nothing new. And that is what always happens, a clear intention, that is being repeated with assiduousness and that determines, as in previous years, that the main cause of the fires in our community, lords, are the incendiaries, people who indiscriminately go out to set fire to our mountains, without consciousness, without remorse. And today, as I've done so many other times -- and I'm sure I'll continue to do -- I totally condemn all of these people. From the German Government, we want to transfer to them zero tolerance with the incendiaries, zero tolerance with these criminals against which we fight not only ourselves, but the whole set of citizenship. And I take it to tell you also that they will be made available to the judiciary, tried and convicted; and they will pay for these facts with which they have, they will not remain under any unpunished concept. [[Applause]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, there is no debate when it comes to this. Of course we have to talk about a lot of things, because, together with the incendiaries' condemnation, we have to take the proposals to allow structural prevention through planning and management of our forest area through Plan 2021-2040; the recovery of agricultural and livestock activity in abandoned lands, with the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia, so that they are generated -- and this is transcendent -- discontinuities in the territory that are able to stop the fires or, at least, to prevent the impact of the fires being greater. This is a matter where everyone, I'm sure, we agree. I'm going to finish by telling them that it's a long journey this one that we want to move forward in this configuration of a forest fire-resistant territory, but that we have to add up to all the necessary efforts. And I don't want to end this intervention without moving -- as I told you -- the Government's firm commitment to the fight against forest fires, which materializes in the performances, among them, that I told them in time, in budgets, as I said, and how I also had the opportunity to move into my budget appearance this year, where they know we've made an important reinforcement of this issue. A commitment we make, ladies and gentlemen, priority to prevention over any other planning; and within these tasks, by taking one more step and further strengthening these tasks by strategic and integral planning that will come through all those lines that I have just failed them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u128	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Dry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u129	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, it is unfortunate that some of these data had not been made available to us in previous times, but we will have time in both speeches to talk about these kinds of issues. Today he comes to explain his department's lines of work. He's one of the last advisors to show up for this nine months after the autonomic election. I hope your department is not also the last that President Feijóo puts in the preference of his policies, something that after observing the 12 years of government would be nothing new, with a rural that suffers, with worrying rates of depopulation and poverty due to the lack of effective policies and a worrying failure to manage his advice. Every day we see how rural communities lose some type of basic service or are reduced by those who have, both public health services, social or educational services and services that provide private entities, such as banking services, public transport, broadband connection, telephone coverage, etc., which make life in our rural areas less attractive and the settlement of families in this area. One of the most obvious facts about this failure of management that you were told by your counsellor, the Government of Greece, is the 56 million euros of the previous PDR's common agricultural policy for the German farmers and farmers who have stopped investing because they are not able to manage them in time for their Government, Mr. González Vázquez. Or the more than 178 million euros that leave unexecuted from the 2016-2020 period in their land-based population fixation and modernization and diversification of the productive tissue. The successive governments of the Feijóo People's Party have dedicated themselves to generating a profuse, diffuse and confusing legislation -- I always use these three words -- to avoid having to comply with it, to develop plans without targets in order to present them publicly and to create statistics with virtual realities for citizenship. An active policy of structures and land management is needed to support the increase in the territorial base of farms with regard to land abandonment and the limitation of eucalyptus plantations on agricultural land. More than two-thirds of the territory of Galicia are in a state of abandonment, we have only 21% of our land of useful land, while Galicia has more than twice as much, 46%, and every year in Galicia they close an average of 600 farms, who would say so in advance? We have whole regions dismantled and, in the meantime, more than 14 million euros from all the Greeks are invested in creating a window estate in Sergude. Galicia received substantial amounts of money from the European Union, from 14 to 20 it had at its disposal EUR 890 million from the RDP to Galicia, not to mention what co-financed the funds of the General Government of the State, being of the five regions of Spain that received the most funds; in a total of 12 years they managed about EUR 1,600 million from European RDP funds to avoid positive results. The dismantling of all instruments to support productive agricultural sectors has been total in recent years, from internationally recognized prestigious centres such as the Mabegondo ICAM or the Lourizán CIF, which they themselves are the professionals who put it as manifestos, going through agricultural training centres in a lamentable state, through the agricultural extension network -- which also have them as they have -- the Bos Finca, Fontao Genetics, etc. And all this, Counselor, derives from a huge weakness in our productive tissue. The German Government has been systematically failing its own proposals, such as, for example, the 30 star measures of Feijóo in response to the 2017 fire strike. He didn't develop a single forest development society, they have almost all of the paralysed partial concentrations -- even though Feijóo committed himself to ending them in the previous legislation -- and paralysed to the Metaga Regulations itself, and not a single undeveloped forest management plan, and nothing in the development of land mobility that he should have applied since 2011. In that year, in 2011, the trade and food balance in Galicia was practically in balance; and today that same food trade balance for Galicia is in negative about 586 million euros, when you speak of quality. All of this in a context where the Spanish food trade balance is on a positive balance of 11,376 million euros. That is, a community like Galicia, power in food production, has a negative commercial food balance of about 600 million euros. In the last decade, the policy of the Rural Media Council based it on the syndrome of the Greek DOG and Radio-Television, with continuous advertisements and contracts without advertising or competitive competition. In the year 2020, they were directly adjudicated without any advertising or competition whatsoever and no less than 1,478 minor contracts, improper direct adjudications of a modern administration and contrary to the requirements of the European Union Court of Justice. Our forest is the best reflection of these erratic policies that are manifest in the failure of planning with a wide area across the coast of Galicia with a monoculture serving an industrial oligopolie, with a large area throughout the eastern and south-eastern mountain area of total abandonment, and the central Great Diagonal of Galicia where the mountain is subjected to enormous conflict and insecurity that discourages any kind of action and converts the owners into suspicious forest managers. The PP forest management consisted of perpetuating existing problems, such as fires, abandonment of neighbouring mountain communities or the disappearance of local and comarcal industry, and encouraging new conflicts between landowners and forest owners, as well as between urban and rural society, as a result of gross failure to comply with the perverse legislation or authorization of the forest administration. While the forest area or the mountain in Galicia has not ceased to grow in the last 20 years in Galicia occupying more than 2/3 parts of our territory, its contribution to the German GDP or even to employment is less than the last decade of the 20th century. This is reflected in the report on the Greek economy 2019-2020, in the dynamic section of the agri-food and wood complex, which says that in terms of economic contribution the forest sector has increased from 2.7% in 1995 to 2% in 2018. I mean, 25 percent less contribution to the Greek economy in the last 25 years. Communities of common-hand neighbors are abandoned by the autonomous administration and those that could be new sources of wealth for rural people, such as energy use, such as wind farms or hydroelectric uses, do not substantially affect the incomes of rural communities and their municipalities, as we discussed in the morning. The immense opportunity generated by the achievement of the European funds for the reconstruction by the Government of the State should be a revolution to achieve a transformation of our economy, after the last 12 years without a study and value of our capabilities, being Galicia the European region with a worse level of use of its resources with 900,000 hectares of unexploitedable land. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we believe that, if we had an inclusive economic policy of our territory, recovering from our rural environment, promoting trade in proximity, which was respectful of the natural environment and leading to an increase in our competitiveness, we could walk towards a better future. We see as one day after another the rural agents tell us of the need to implement support measures for farmers, the need to mobilize land, the need to encourage the incorporation of new people into this sector. Galicia needs to increase the area dedicated to cereals, we cannot continue to import forage from the other side of the Atlantic with the immense possibilities of our territory. We must increase the agrarian surface of vegetables, tubers and vegetables, betting on our garden. To bet on public research centres that are abandoned and which are the basis of the competitiveness of our production systems. To bet on a quality food industry, on better marketing formulas and put in value the excellence of our products, on eco-production, on extensive gain and on small and medium-sized producers using agri-environmental payments and other aids to stimulate the orientation of production systems, with an autonomous administration that establishes mechanisms that are real and productive so that producers can ensure that they sell above the cost of production. There are multiple issues to be addressed. Counsellor, we're open to talking, reaching agreements, whenever we're serious about the issues and we can't generate a bigger problem with certain events that we've seen lately, as happened to the Forest Plan. A document that didn't plan anything at all and that you yourself end up amending with a delayed eucalyptus plantation moratorium that is getting them to be planted massively eucalyptus throughout Galicia, seriously interfering in a market like that of wood and the price that producers should receive. The Land Recovery Act is a large toolbox, where from the Socialist Group we are willing to work together to make it better, and so we are doing it in the presentation, but we must ensure the legality of a rule that has not passed through the Consultative Council or the Legal Counsel of the Galician Council if we have not dealt with it as a bill. And we have serious doubts that some measures are legally and constitutionally adaptable, such as the investigation of the property, which may result in a property where the owner is not known to be seized with a covert expropriation from the Rural Council; or the appropriation of competences that have so far been of the Town Councils. They must give us legal certainty to those who we are going to legislate and then make sure that this law will not only be on paper wet in its development, because the existence of a proper budget, of a staff establishment that makes possible its application and a schedule of actions in this legislation can determine whether the law is a useful document or simply a new advertising mechanism for its counseling, and that's what it's used to. [[Applause]] It is simply to offer you once again our loyal collaboration in all matters and all matters that we can be useful to the Greek rural environment. And then on the second shift, I'm also going to look at a number of issues that you've raised here, which are interesting. For example, in the next generation funds that we're following and we're going to guide ourselves through the small issues that we're putting here on the table, but we're unable to find the loyalty and commitment of the opposition groups to really explain what these projects are, or what's going on with the negotiation of the CAP, in which the Spanish Government has achieved an appropriate agreement in Europe and we don't know what the lines of action of the Greek Government are being pursued, that we know you're collaborating and acting with the rest of the cantabrian cornice, but we would need to know what the lines of action that are being set out for the parliamentary groups, and therefore we don't know if you're doing your job to get a good CAP also for the cantabrian corn and for our Greek territory. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u130	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Counselor, the coward showed us our rurals in all their cruelty. A rural of hope and resistance to the pandemic as well as a destructed and in need of policies that give it one of hope. And the heads of cow, goat and sheep remained in the farms by giving and spending time and weight, and the ornamental flower and cut flower died in the greenhouses and in the nursery and no one remembered their existence. And the fruit and vegetables growers saw their markets closed and we had to catch ourselves between neighbors so that life would continue and the land would flourish. Because the fairs and local outdoor markets and open, wide open spaces were closed to lime and singing, and instead the supermarkets with hygienic and free paper, by the grace of God, of danger. It turned out pathetic. As you all recovered from the shock of the first-hour improvisation, they continued to improvise and did not worry about carrying out a campaign to support the fairs and local markets. Of course, you know, they're third-world aspects of our rural environment. In neighbouring Portugal, they're prestigious, not here. And so the integrated garden products, ecological or consumer surpluses we eat them at home because in the official office they don't exist; of course, they don't go through Mercamadrid, Mercadona... I know. And in the time of self-consumer confinement we couldn't go to the slopes over 500 meters away from the house, and those who were left in another municipality if the guards were local connoisseurs, nothing happened, and if we didn't... and we resisted these and other battles, and no one remembered to give them thanks to the services of forest firemen who disinfected residences wherever they were sent. Your uniform doesn't fit as much as UME's. And many of them didn't have any protocols or facilities to change with a minimum of security. And Mercaproximity appeared. It was the only idea to claim that there were food sectors that had product stored without exit. And, you know, it became clear that a country that does not produce food for its population is sold. And if this country has luxury potentials, that dependency becomes a joke. And they know once that rural people can't be ruled under urban parameters, they're different realities and not opposed, but different. Because, Counselor, what you haven't talked about or talked about is that what's at stake is the future of this country, conceived as continuity of a birthday for centuries. Human interaction with territory. It was us, the Greeks and the Greeks, who, through centuries of conversation with the earth and the landscape, did and chose to manage the territory so in that mutual knowledge. That's why the dispersed population, the read foot, that's why the direct management of the territory, that's why the small farms of a family character. And you're not, you're reading a country that comes from the books of other latitudes, written in another speech, born from another reality. In the background it happens as with the language, "I'm from here but the Galician one..." And, of course, the Galician mountain doesn't support that forestry that you proclaim and throws fire yells demanding multifunctional and biodiverse treatment. But Ence needs, demands chaos and fires, and comes nitens where the globulus can't stand, and comes fires and money dilapidated into kerosene and mango water, one year yes and the other too. And what about the agricultural land you don't know? I quit. How many are there? 200,000, 300,000 acres, that's all! The population of the center and east of Galicia and almost all Ourense emptied people towards the axis -- say -- Atlantic vertebrate. Look, Filomena collapsed Mercamadrid and at 4 days in Galicia's food supermarkets they were already beginning to scarce food, even those produced here, that travel to Madrid and return to a tourism of subordination to the center, the world's environment. 400 million euros a month of food deficit in this country that possesses the best agricultural qualities in the world, the best. You're crazy, Counselor. Yes, I know, that law, that law of land recovery, what land, how much land? Do you have to clarify something important to us, Counsellor, this proposal for land recovery law -- say -- agrarians, is it born in the diagnosis that the field has serious structural problems? I mean, a good part of your territory with productive potential is abandoned to the mercy of the fire. And how was that fall of the horse? Because the last silence of the Government with the countryside lasted 12 years, after a brief and blundering conversation about the theft of the lands that I was proposing the BNG. What now? Or is it a law that protects the afforestation of the territory? Here we have to clarify. From the BNG we say that the dynamization of rural areas will come from the mobilization of agricultural land in a well-sized family format, according to the activity of farms which make them economically and environmentally sustainable. And what do you think? They need to know, although he spoke with property today and gave priority to agricultural land, we're moving forward. But you have to know, ladies and gentlemen on the one hand, that we are being denied the possibility of placing in the articulated priority of the agricultural land, because we all understand that this should be the priority for the land that produces food and thus with it, with the abandoned land, recovering population, economic dynamism, added value in transformation, fixing population and direct management of the territory. No, the text of the proposed law using the language of confusion is not only the forest agro that can be both agricultural and forestry. And you're going to the forest, aren't you? And for that they made the law, to have legal coverage in the macro-operation they're immersed in. Macrooperation. 70 years ago they expropriated the water, the water from our rivers for electricity, and the resource went out, here was nothing left, nowhere. It took years for the decent light to come to many parishes. In the middle of 1990 in the parish where I live to be able to muzzle in the court of the neighbor of the school house we had to turn off the TV and the fridge. As I tell them, 1990 and peak. Now they expropriate the wind, come on mills, and they're giants. And they leave nothing of the wealth they generate, nor the crumbs. Like in Congo last century. And this happens today in our rural area, it's the voyeurs sitting in our dead body. Remember, Counsellor, of the plan that 2017, you were a Member like me, it was like, for this time, at the end of the elections of 2016, it was endowed with 230 million euros of European funds, they said; 23 measures and 330,000 hectares worth. Did you get anything out of that messed-up plan? Propaganda, pure propaganda. It was 330,000 hectares. Yes, they are those and more, many more than they could be in production by generating wealth and management of the territory and they are toxin and slaughter waiting for the fire. And we may have to make biodigestion plants to treat fertilizers of animal origin, a tractor project to do something about the barbarity of Limia or Ten. Barbarity agreed and fueled by the laissez made of their governments, but it looks good. And the city population will think it's benefiting rural people, because you run the camp with city mentality. The viscous project? More eucalyptus. You know, short fiber that saves processes. How much are we going to increase the annual cut? Three million cubic meters, from 9 to 12 million. How many more celluloses? And the system is going to be the Austrian, the most expensive? And Indidex, who did his empire that way, is going to buy raw materials here more expensive than on the international market? What do you want me to say? That, while you're a forest and allow and even induce abandonment, people are afraid, a lot of people are afraid. He's afraid of the prepotency they're acting with, afraid because they're always accompanied by those who hold economic power. Fear that the nights of fascisms are born and that this little democracy has not been able to overcome. I'm afraid you'll have to change into illusion, Counsellor, so that we can achieve the necessary dynamization of our rural area. The question is, will we arrive in time? Maybe it's or maybe it's not. You know, Mr. Counselor, that at the bottom of the BNG nestles the hope that someday we can do something for this rural, something serious. It's a serious thing to think of as we thought in two thousand peaks, in that bipartisan government that are so far away, that bank of land that you could use for 12 years, they could use to mobilize land and so that our rural situation wasn't as agony as it is. [[Applause]] We're still in time, our hand is stretched but seriously. Counsellor, prioritizes the agricultural land, the mobility of that land, because it is the heart of our economy. Prioritize that and stop calling the eucalyptus plantation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u132	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u133	Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. Let me take less than a minute of this intervention in view of the circumstances of this week, giving sincere and profound thanks to all the support received in these last days, especially my fellows, but also very prominently to fellow political forces, such as Olalla Rodil, Ana Pontón, the Mayor of Lugo, the concierge Álvaro Santos or also by the same order as Gonzalo Caballero. I make this reflection in addition to a wish that the color of a scarf or scarf is never news in a media or in a public institution, and with a force that inspires, you will remember, even on Monday Congress paid tribute to a woman in whom many women inspire us even if we do not have the same ideology, as Clara Campoamor. And allow me also to read a fragment of a book that tells its story, which probably gives us strength when we cross with chapters as confused as those that were last week. "It was the first of October and a crucial moment comes, the socialist radical Victoria Kent sacrificing her convictions to the discipline of her party calls for the approval of the right to the woman's vote. Replica Campoamor. By 161 votes against 121, the woman acquires the right to vote. The socialist Prieto left the House saying he was a trapper for the Republic." Sometimes history inspires us and undoubtedly gives us strength." [[Applause]] Counselor, come today to take note of your advisor's line of work. I appreciate your presence here and your work, not just you, but all your equipment. And I also appreciate the coordinated work and the good environment in the 7th Commission, of which I am a spokesman, and in particular my colleagues who preceded me in the use of the word, who are also at one time I think that very important for Galicia, trying to reach a consensus in an instrument that, as the two fellows pointed out, provides tools to correct and improve our rural environment, and I would like to see that everything you say does not solve our negotiations and, of course, our good understanding, because, from heart to heart, so I feel and so am learning from all of you. The councillor began by saying that he had come to listen, that commitment also reflected and expressed that commitment to continue to act with transparency and, most importantly, to further develop bridges for a common goal which both Mr. Seco and Mr. Rivas have repeated, by continuing to build a multifunctional rural, a live rural, a dynamic rural and, above all, a sustainable rural. I would also like to acknowledge that work of all the successes that help to build all the officials of the Rural Environment, also very especially, I come from provinces, the officials who perform their work in the provincial delegations, but -- and here Mr Rivas something pointed out -- also very especially the work of our farmers, our farmers; that I disagree a little, I think we all put a lot of value in this pandemic, which forced us to rethink our scale of values and made us look sometimes at our snow and realize that, if our rural to, if our farmers stop, our urban doesn't eat. And that, no doubt, has to serve us all to learn and, of course, to value those who didn't. It's a councillor who's fourth in the investment. I'd like to highlight this, because it also seems like my colleagues were questioning it. I think it's a fourth-place budget, after Health, Education and Social Services, it's certainly a very mathematical fact to be able to know the importance that the German Government is giving to our Rural Media Council. Counselor, you and your team have a huge responsibility. It said Castelao that true heroism was transforming desires and realities... into ideas. And you really have that responsibility to actually convert the desires of the Greeks. Of the Greeks who voted for us, that you all know there were many, but also the Greeks who didn't vote for us, who voted for the forces that are now in the opposition, and also those who didn't even get parliamentary representation. The important thing about all the intervention that the counselor has made, which I would like to summarize, because I think it was clear enough that I don't need to repeat many of the ideas, is that you clearly know where you want to go. It began with the importance of planning, the importance of these sectoral strategies, some of which we already know; and it spoke of the strategy of the already approved dairy sector, which has this objective of increasing the territorial base of our farms, by the way, that the BNG spokesman and the Socialist Party spokesman have repeated it, as well as one of the needs to correct in that rural environment to oversized our farms and to increase their profitability. The boost to the Pastoral Milk brand and the professionalization of the sector with those indispensable instruments, and he quoted -- which I would also like to highlight here -- that computer application that will allow to apply production costs, not only to improve the profitability of the exploitation, but also to increase the trading capacity at contract prices. Strengthen training, research and innovation and bet on quality. We all know that Galicia is quality, but you will also know that, if there is no proper promotion, it obviously does not reach our consumer. Set value added to product, diversification. He highlighted, and it's also a sector that knows him well, the importance of our wine world, of our wine sector. It has been committed, and it has also been adopted unanimously in the committee, to adopt shortly the strategy of the meat sector, a sector which I find that needs this momentum and is going through with it. He quoted two strategies, two tools that were used in the pandemic, and I too, with all humility, believe that they were not properly valued by both the voices of the BNG and the Socialist Party. I believe that Mercaproximity was a highly valued instrument in this pandemic, and I personally received a lot of congratulations, and not from large businesses or the whole world that always mentions the Nationalist Galego Block, but from small producers, small farmers and farmers who saw the unique opportunity to hold bridges and to see their product in the great lines of the big brands and in the supermarket. I don't personalize it in the counselor, who too, who is undoubtedly responsible for good and evil, but I sincerely believe it was a collective success. It's at a very important historical moment. On the one hand, the whole economic crisis that is marking us this health crisis, but also the moment of negotiation of the common agricultural policy. And I value that ability to reach agreements with autonomous communities governed by the Socialist Party, such as the Autonomous Community of Asturias, Cantabria or the Basque Country, which, of course, with efforts, with joint strategies, this Greek Government is being able to make a common front that defends the peculiarities and the idiosyncrasy of our rural. It's a historic moment for that, but, no doubt, it's also a historic moment for the possibility that we're going to have to raise European funds. And I in this constructive and conciliatory tone have missed that offer by especially the Socialist Party, which I understand that obviously will have more ability to influence the Government of Spain, though sometimes it seems that it has more capacity the Nationalist Block Galego, but, well, whether one or another, I think it is very important that in interventions like these and this Parliament it had remained that explicit commitment to support the Government of the Council of Galicia, to support our farmers and farmers, because undoubtedly in this direction they will be the main beneficiaries, and tell the advisor that they will also be a bridge of communication with the Government of Sánchez so that Galicia does not say we have more, but at least, and considering what they are getting used to us, don't be less than it deserves. Projects have been talked about. I don't know why you don't like the fiber factory, I think it's an absolutely innovative project, which can generate a lot of jobs and can generate added value in our autonomous community. We talked about a commitment to put into operation a very important volume of land, 18,000 hectares. The fight against abandonment, which everybody else has also agreed that it is undoubtedly something to be cut, put concrete projects and commitments on the table. That impulse of the model villages, which I recognize that, in this country, when someone comes out for the first time with a project and next to him puts the qualification of model or pilot, because the shift opposition at its moment always tends to criticize him, criminalize him or identify him as an excess of promotion. In an initial moment I can understand it, because if you didn't try to study well what it was, you might not understand it. But now they're already working, you can now visit model villages with agrarian activity and they're already a reality. There is also another very important element, of course, that needs consensus, which needs contributions, which is an indispensable instrument; I am referring to the preparation of the Strategic Plan for the Implementation of the ERDF Funds 2023-2027. Galicia now lives a very important moment. The scenario that can probably allow us to have more tools is that approval of the Land Law. I also want to thank my comrade Armada, who is with me in the presentation of this law; I am constantly learning from the two voices and I believe that he is reaching out to many agreements and, of course, from the very beginning, very much, very constructive eagerness. I will not tell the spokesman of the Socialist Party that, if you want to learn from minor contracts, you can go to the city of Lugo, which for example recently gave us a data of... because in a short period of time more than 1,343 contracts. Or I won't remind Mr. Seco that he really seems to live still installed in that year of 1990, when the light couldn't or when you had to wait for his neighbor to tidy up the cows. I've said it many times and I say it with great affection because it's also always a time and some people who are no longer with us, and everyone who are good people and who we love our ancestors, because we thank them, but it's still established in Galicia precisely in 1990. Galicia today, and we recently saw it in a newspaper like a farm of Respect, its milk was used in a brand we all know, like McDonalds, and that's not being invented either Elena Candia or the Popular Group. And that success isn't from the People's Party either; partly sure it is, because he knows we've been ruling this autonomous community for many years, but that's not by chance either, that's because we've won the confidence of the Greeks. I pray that this conciliatory tone will continue to inspire our meetings and I pray you to see that many of the problems that today identified our rural environment, implicitly in their own exhibition, recognized that the tool could be in the Recovery Law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u135	And I'm just moving you, Counselor, which of course is an exhibition of brave compromises, I've told you on more occasions, but of course very necessary and undoubtedly this parliamentary group that I represent will be working on, because building a better rural area we built a better Galicia. Nothing else on this shift and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to begin my second intervention, of course, thanking the tone of your speeches to the spokesmen of the opposition groups, because, beyond circles and poetry, which is always given when Mr Rivas intervenes, the truth is that I understand that they agree with many of the lines of work of the council. I don't say it and no sense, you know it, you know that I really like the way you express yourself, even if you don't share the background, and you know it too. I especially liked it, I have to say it too, Mr. Seco's position because, indeed, I think that the first time I started my first intervention there might have been some misunderstanding. I came here to talk about things, I think it's quite important, to pick up your words well, Mr. Seco, and there are certain issues that I will soon talk about in relation to the CAP, I'm going to understand if I move you which is the position of the Cantabrian Corn, because it's true that we in that position of the Cantabrian Corn have a position in some cases that benefits Galicia the most and that I can transfer it to in an area far too soon... not in this public domain, but yes, of course, to set that position, of more confidentiality, I meant. I'm certainly moving you from here that at the end of this meeting I'm going to ask for a specific appearance to talk about the CAP by also collecting your proposal, and I'd like, if possible, that appearance to be even before the Madrid negotiation. Because, if there are points of agreement, and I think you should have them, because the position we have is consistent, as I said, with the main Greek agricultural organizations, I also suppose that we can take a unanimous stance, even a motion for a resolution by this Parliament, so that it will give us strength in that negotiation and beyond. I -- and I understand myself -- have a great relationship with the Minister of Agriculture, but you have to understand, and I told you, that I defend within loyalty the interests of the Greek farmers and livestock. And what we have for now, and I've already told you before and I can repeat the data, is a Mediterranean CAP, without any doubt. And then I'll refer to some of these issues by collecting Mr. Seco's data and whether they want to take some of the questions or I can clarify them in the last intervention. Simply, Mr Seco, by putting you in a bit of a position, let's see: as regards the RDP this year, I have to tell you, with official data from the European Commission, that Galicia is currently in the degree of execution 10 points above the average of the rest of the autonomous communities. Don't worry that the PDR is extended until 2023, but we're definitely going to spend all the money, I hope we had more money to be able to spend. I also collect and do self-criticism, and I share with you the criticism that we have to focus more on our research centers. It's a matter of particular concern to me, if you've had occasion and you've heard or remember my presence of budgets, you know that there's a very important amount on the table to bet on or invest in our research centers, both in Mabegondo and also in Galician Vicitural and Ethnology Station; well, ultimately, all research centers. And, Mr. Seco, really, I don't understand why we protest so much from the windows, if in the end the windows are also for sale. Sergude is going to be a training and research center too, and in fact, you know, and if not, we can consult and I can give you that data, not those 14 million euros are budgeted, but they're budgeted for phases. And the first stage of Sergude, which, by the way, has just failed the competition and won that very high-profile architects contest in Galicia -- and I am very happy to be able to transfer precisely that we have a fantastic project there -- the first stage is going to be meant to invest in the training centre, where we have 90 boys, and you're going to make that first investment. And, therefore, all the work that will be done on that farm is precisely towards its productive orientation. But I take that criticism, I tell you, of course, that agrarian research for us is a key element and that we have to strengthen it, we are working on it. I'm right now, contrary to what you say often, I don't like to announce things if I don't think I'm gonna be able to execute them. I have enough or we have quite advanced that is what we want to do, was also in our electoral program what we want to do with Galicia's agricultural research and I would tell you that this year 2021 if you're going to see that reinforcement that's already in the budgets so you can make the investments. He spoke of the 30 measures of Feijóo, I'm not going to go into detail. More than 75% of the measures taken. He said there's no SOFOR, well, there's 18. But here I would like to make a reflection, which has to do with the Recovery Law, because you already know the Recovery Law. Intuitively, we could all understand that probably the mechanism to do joint management, which is what we need in the Greek forest, the most appropriate should be commercial societies. And justify myself or explain myself. Because they limit responsibility, because they have internal operating rules that can favour that investment by the owners themselves. We're not talking here about what He's coming to make up SOFOR, which is not the case, but that the owners themselves get together for joint management, which is the main problem of our mountain and our rural environment. That dispersal on the farms, that disorientation of uses that we could talk about long and tense of their causes, but that are undoubtedly structural causes, and the people who are on the table know perfectly that these structural causes are analysed more than beyond the exposition of reasons of the Recovery Act and the study commission we had in 2017. But, understanding that SOFOR would be the culmination that we should all aspire to in their moment that the Greek owners had to do this joint management, we assume -- that's a self-criticism -- we assume that SOFOR, limited societies, commercial societies are hard to understand for much of the citizenship that lives in rural areas. What did we do? In article 16 of the proposed law, of the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia, we propose as joint management entities any figure, from a community of owners, to a civil society, a cooperative or an association entity, any figure that is worth it. We could even talk about references or issues that are affected by UXFOR, which have also been picked up in the amendments to the Block. That I tell you that we are looking with all the love of the world, because we have no obstacle to accepting those things that contribute to the management of our mountain, besides in a sustainable manner, together, which is the key to this. It's not about taking anyone's land, it's about grouping them up to manage. And in the forest area this is especially done and we all know it. And it's also what can allow us to give this biodiversity. It's very difficult to tell a landowner of 3,000 or 4,000 meters that has that variability on their farms, on forest plantations, but if we group 40 or 50 hectares -- I repeat -- respecting the property, we can then tell you clearly of that forest diversification that is collected in the forest plan 2021-2040, which supports this government and which, without any doubt, we're going for it. And much of what we're doing has to do with precisely that diversification of our mountain. Even if they understand, and it can be, that's an economic issue, because the People's Party is the party to economic activity, or at least in its consideration, I tell you clearly, even from an economic point of view, that diversification is very close; it's also from a social point of view and from an environmental point of view. Mr. Seco also spoke of the partial mergers. I also tell you, Mr. Seco, it is to me about the issues that most concern me about the difficulty we are having in delivering the titles of the partial mergers. Because it's a key issue for our people, too. We all know that, although it's true that 2/3 of the 96 partial mergers that we have opened in Galicia at this time already the owners have at their disposal the land, which is the first step on the replacement farms, is the first step to be able to develop their economic activity, or the most important step, it is true that many people do not feel that they are from them till they have no titles. And then -- you all know, but I understand that too -- in 2015 there's a change to the State Mortgage Law that makes it very difficult for us to access the registration of the titles of the partial mergers. This isn't a question we don't want to give titles. You'll understand that, as a Middle Rural Counsellor, probably of the things that satisfy me most -- I'm even seeing for some Member who has been asking us to hand over the titles to him in his areas -- it's one of the most satisfying things. But we have not been able to achieve that adjustment until we started in 2020. At this point I can quite forcefully state to you that we are already regularly delivering titles. In 2020 we delivered 4 partial mergers, remember that at that time because of Covid it was not publicly fixed, but Pousada and Ramil, Pousada in Baleira and Ramil in Castro de Rey; in Ourense we delivered the titles of San Millán in Cualedro and Vila de Lebres in Trasmiras. As for the year 2021, we delivered titles in six areas: Touro Foxáns, Riotorto, Coristanco, Baltar, Castro de Rey and Pino. And we're going to deliver this same Friday -- I think -- Valadouro and about April 23, Abadín, in Melide, and in the parish of Maceda, Orois, on April 30. I want to put in value that we have made deliveries at 10 concentrations, more than 3,300 owners and about 9,000 titles delivered. But we also have parcels that are already being achieved or reaching the goal of being able to deliver the titles, and they are a total of 21 zones, have a firm agreement, which affects 15,000 owners and around 33,000 estates. I mean, we're working so far, I want to move you that in the rest of the parcel mergers, of those 96 that I said, 21 are already firm in agreement, but the rest of us are 93% of the investment; they're already practically done in every case, the main and secondary roads, and now what we're interested in, and I'm really telling you, what I'm interested in is being able to speed up that delivery of titles. So I would ask that we take into account the enormous effort that we are all doing here as Greeks and Greeks as regards the investment that is made in the partial mergers, 120 million euros since 2009, and that we have already finished this debate, because I think it is a sterile debate. And, of course, we're going to keep doing partial mergers. I was saying... it's called partial restructuring as you know with Metaga, but I'm still using the traditional denomination. Mr. Seco was saying, and you're right, that Galician Land Recovery Act is a good tool or toolbox plus concentration. Concentrations have worked very well in areas that, among other things, have endured the German gainful farms and, therefore, we have to keep doing them. But there are areas in the territory where we deliver the titles of the partial mergers and the land will be abandoned for whatever reasons they are, mainly because there are no more farms. That is where we need to use the mechanisms of the Recovery Law. But I also tell you, at this stage, I would ask you to see them with affection through the amendments and the amendments that we are proposing with the People's Parliamentary Group at the moment. We can even use the polygons to make a question that is demanding us to the people in the territory who are very important: reconcentrations. Winners are asking us to sort uses in partial concentrations, and they come up with many of the problems because of this lack of sorting, and they're doing reconcentrations. And the polygons, if we touch a little bit the nomenclature of the law, the text of the law in the amendments, which we can perfectly deal with, can be used to make those reconcentrations, which I think will be very beneficial especially to our owners in the areas where there are these partial concentrations, which I already tell you have the problem, on the one hand, of the disorder of uses, and on the other hand also, of the small surface, which one day was a very large surface, we always say that we practically multiplied by 4 or 5 the initial surface in the partial concentrations, but it's true that today our farmers don't get those surfaces. And I'm not talking about giving partial mergers to any company, even though to me those owners are businesses, I'm talking about giving more territorial base to our farms, the ones that are already working. I'm worried about a question, Mr. Seco, and I'm talking about it with the spokesperson for the Rural Environment of the People's Party, at the end of this meeting, we're going to give you the report on Article 19 of the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia made by the General Legal Counsel of Galicia, and also Mr. Rivas, we're also going to give the dictates of the Civil Rights Commission that we're taking advantage of to say that there's a research faculty, that I'm not talking to myself for cover expropriation, because it's just... we're not talking about expropriating anyone, we're talking about that there are no-knowing farms today, gentlemen, with the State Heritage Act, when the investigation procedure is completed, it's up to the Central Government. We have nothing against the central government, but we understand that this research faculty can be given to the autonomous administration, in the rustic soil, because the autonomous administration is the one with the powers to mobilize that land, so we understand that the research faculty, rather than being an active subject the central government, which has the central government. That's the first step. And, if you have the powers of investigation, the consequence is that you have to correspond to the same thing as the Central Government. And the same way the State Heritage Act says that if there is no known owner, the estate becomes the central government, and you all know that there are more than 300,000 plots in the catastrophe, the name of the unknown owner that I am from the central government, because now what we say -- and I think, for example, I'm sure that the other two parliamentary groups -- are enrolled in the name of the Galician Land Bank. We also put on the condition that for five years these lands could not be sold, but that they could rent out waiting for a landlord to appear, because here we have no interest in staying with any land. May all the owners appear, and you know it too, in article 19, which is very easy for those owners to believe in their title. What we're interested in is that these people appear and put value on their land, but it's true, and this is the diagnosis, and this is the reality of rural Galician, which, if we're not able to have that research faculty, we're not able to mobilize the earth. This, ladies and gentlemen, they don't understand it in the gain zones of Lugo or the Coruña, because there everyone knows who the farms are, but there are areas in Ourense in which more than 30% of the plots don't know who they are. How do we mobilize there if we don't have the research faculty? So I hope with this clarification, Mr. Seco, not today's, that I am doing here, but with the report of the General Legal Counsel, and with the dictates of the Civil Rights Commission, because we are dissipating these doubts, but, if you have any more, we will continue to work, of course, to convince you. He also spoke of his belief in the norm, beyond this issue of constitutionality, and I've already told him that the topic of article 19 we've collected there and that he won't be left on wet paper. Well, I don't have any doubt, but I'm clear about what we have to do between the three groups: we're going to ask the ministry, the Vice President of the Ecological Transition, who supports within the Next Generation projects of that vice-presidency, which certainly does not welcome them clearly, ours, which aims to mobilize with the instruments of the Land Recovery Act in Galicia 18,000 hectares in polygons and 200 villages model. I mean, we're talking about a very important volume of investment, I said 600 million euros; of course, we're not asking you in the next Generation 600 million euros funds, the 600 million euros is the estimated impact that these investments would have on private public investment. We need much less public money, but there, of course, if we are capable, especially the Socialist Party of Galicia, it's not a baladi issue, because you're certainly the Socialist Party is ruling at the central level, so we could force it. I ask for that help, because I also asked the Minister for Agriculture, I sent her the letter explaining these projects, and specifically asking her to be able to support us along with the other ministries that might be involved with the Vice President of Ecological Transition. I have to tell you, Mr Seco, basically because it is the same party, that for the moment they do not specifically collect this project on the lines that will lead Europe and that they are currently debating at the Council of Ministers as far as the Ecological Transition Vice-Presidency Resilence Plan is concerned. But we're still in time, because they have to present it this month and we can therefore force this issue. I encourage you, if you have a meeting, if you want me to explain to you more in detail those projects and this in particular, though I think that everyone who is working on the law fully understands what's going on, well, there we are to be able to do it. Mr. Rivas, there he entered what he said before supporting local fairs and markets, I'm not going to go into sterile debates today, and I think we are dealing with very important issues, but simply a slaughter: in Galicia during the Covid the Government of the Union of Unity was clearly positioned in favour of opening the markets, against the position of the central government, and you know that it was because we also had the support and we defended the position of the Galician Labour Union. There was a moment when it could not be opened because we were totally confined, but as soon as the conditions were given, we defended the opening. And I understand you're turning a little bit about Mercaproximity, because, of course, if we're always going against supermarkets or large chains and all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, the only market we have are these big chains or distribution chains, I'm not going to call them big chains, and all of them in common and almost without asking for anything, if they make available to the Galician Union so that all those small producers who had difficulty getting their goods out if they could use their shops, man, I think at least it's to feel satisfied with that commitment. I have to tell you, in Mercaproximity, 450 producers came in, but there were a few, uh, few who are very satisfied. I would like to mention, not to mention many more, Soporcel and the Celt Pig, who expressly recognized that the increase in sales in 2020, when it was one year to end these extensive holdings of Celtic Pigs, increased their sales by 30%. So it's not counseling data, it's a recognition that this worked well. Look, when you say we don't believe in markets and we don't believe in the possibility of putting quality products on these markets, I want to ask you a question, or two. Is it against the Order of Food Crafts? Because this was legislated by this Rural Council, and we are the only autonomous community that regulates the Decree of Food Crafts, or regulates the activity of food craftsmanship. We believe in the craftsman and the little one, and we defend him. What we do believe is that you have to have a quality distinction that differentiates you and protects you from what you're not a craftsman. And if you're in his favor, what I'm telling you is that we're also currently developing the operating standards of the 14 types of food artisans that we have, but we can also collaborate there, because maybe we have to make some improvements, and there we're also available to talk to the trade unions on the Agrarian Council and also to the parliamentary groups to improve, because we want to get along with the food craftsmanship, because it's an important part of Galicia Agri-Food Quality. We'll bet on her without a doubt. And the second question I want to ask you is whether it's against the individual markets as well, which have been announced at this year's budget meeting and which are specifically designed to make specific markets in paradigmatic places in the Greek territory -- and we can all think of each region where these paradigmatic places are -- to put into value those proximity products and these artisan products. So, I'd ask you, if sometimes... I don't know if you remember at the beginning of my appearance, I said everything that comes from the PP by system we have to criticize you. But I think there are things here that, of course, sometimes I talk about them, and they're going to excuse me my colleagues, it seems I'm speaking on behalf of some of the opposition groups, because they're things we all agreeing on, it's a matter of common sense. He speaks of the fall of the horse, well, I fell a few times yes, of the horse but I keep doing it. [[Laughter]] He says he's covering up the land forest. He made a statement there that, if I read it again, I will tell him that I fully agree with the support of small and medium-sized farms, but on a matter of intelligence and pure common sense, because they are ours. There are no large farms here, so in the CAP position it is easy for us to agree, as we agreed with the Galician Labour Union and with Agricultural Unions, because we all stand for the same. What I do not admit is to say that we are not going to give priority to the agricultural land, because you are in the paper work and you know perfectly that there is an amendment, Amendment 23 of the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia, which contains 25.2, there is a first amendment in Article 25(h) to excuse me all these matings, but it is for us to be clear, that it says clearly, that we need to prioritize the useful agricultural area, in Article 2(h) and there is a amendment, to 23, which I hope that we will then be able to trade it, that it will pick up Article 25(2) and say, "The catalogue of agricultural and forestry soils will look for a proper distribution of agricultural and forestry uses -- let's be addressed to these important issues, because this is really our enemy -- by favoring the development of these uses in the face of the abandonment of agroforestland. - And immediately clarify. -- In particular, the catalogue will seek to guarantee a useful agrarian surface, close to the national and European media," which is greater than what you demanded in your amendment. And, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, it is a position that is fully in line with the agricultural organizations, which we have of course heard, and which we are in agreement with both the Galician Labour Union and the Agricultural Unions. I don't know exactly if the Galician Labour Union will explain its support, but Agrarian Unions did, and I would like to thank the organization very much for the work it has done to improve the law, because it actually worked together with the Popular Parliamentary Group to make that improvement. He also said that the forest is going to us. Yes, yes, and its 30,000 owners who charge 300 million euros each year in Galicia with the forest sector. Look, we can talk about the need for ordering uses, we can talk about the need to put a little order in those uses, through the usage catalogue, but what we can't prevent is that the owners -- and here there are people -- there are Members who will understand what we're moving -- that there are areas in Galicia where that tree or forestry gives pension plans, gives money to the children, gives studies for the children, gives cooking. I mean, we're talking about a very important issue in an equally important part of the territory. And from there we can talk to everyone, but the answer and the solution to the difficulties we may have in the forest sector are in the Recovery Act. He spoke of the need to ensure compliance with the law, as Mr. Seco said, and I totally agree, and I expect your support so that we can achieve those next generation funds. I also want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the budgets, as far as the next EAFRD is concerned, there will be sufficient funds, both to provide both personal and also means, of ability to develop law-recovery instruments. But it's going to allow me to have a prank, it's going to allow me anecdote that, man, I, as you know, I'm a man who likes to read and, when they told me that we didn't have an economic memory of this law, I looked for the law, the economic memory of Law 7/2007, which, as you know, is the one that creates the Land Bank. And, well, speaking of barbarities, I want to remind you that it was said that there were 100,000 hectares to be mobilized in five years, the reason for 20,000, and the set of years after approval -- and I also worried about looking at it -- they didn't reach 1,000. So he was missing 9,000 from what they were projecting. So we're going to be realistic, we've made the 18,000-hectare numbers, we can defend it, it's some money that can give us from Europe and with 18,000-hectares well-placed, and in addition to fire prevention criteria, we set up a good field; agricultural, livestock and forestry activity, as orderly as possible, trying to move them to the neighbours and neighbours of rural that is the mechanism in which we have to deal. On the subject of biofactory, Mr. Rivas, there is an obvious contradiction in the Block, and they should reflect on it. Yes. First, we've been for many years, you've been for many years -- and I understand the criticism -- criticizing that we didn't close the production cycle in Galicia. True, we make paper and make that paper out of Galicia; I even understand that many times they talk about the possibility that in addition to a pastry there was a trash can. We're putting on the table a project that closes the cycle. We're talking about textile fiber, the only thing that's missing from that fiber, so let's be clear, is that it trusts, but there's industry for ampoule, but it leaves the fiber to be sold. We're talking about that of the 100 million tons worldwide that are marketable, these flexible textile fibres have a market of 6% and they can have quite a big increase. We are talking about the most valuable product added that can be obtained in production from wood and in this field of manufacture of this type of product. And we're saying -- and I've already transferred it to Mr. Seco, but I take advantage of this House, that I'm also bound by matters of confidentiality right now -- because you're obviously talking to high-level operators, but I can tell you that the fibers that we're going to argue and allow them to be produced in Galicia have to have the requirement of sustainability, because, if not, they're not worth anything. When I was talking about oil and modal, it's true that it's the most expensive, but they don't have production capacity today for what they want to buy them from textile companies. So this added value is given to you by sustainability, and sustainability is marked by two questions: the sustainability in the management of the mountains where wood comes from, which has to be certified and has to guarantee biodiversity, and that's why we work on the Forest Plan; and the sustainability in the manufacturing process, basically linked to water consumption, which has to comply with the best international practices. If not, there is no viable fiber and therefore no project. Mr. Seco said he needed more information, I'm also open and I'm telling him, not here today, I'm not looking for him and I'm not going to give him the reason at all, but obviously I'm open to giving all the data I can within the confidentiality commitments I've assumed in this field. I'm going to finish, that were a lot of questions. If I'd like to end the CAP position. I repeat what I said earlier, Mr. Seco, I'm going to ask for an appearance in this House to discuss the position of the CAP, but I would like to make it clear to all of us, even if it's public, to transfer to the whole House which is the position of the Cantabrian cornice, in which there are some issues in which we can be more incisive, but that'll be left for the final negotiation. We are very concerned about the definition of the Genuine farmer, where there is a consensus position also with the Galician Labour Union and with Agricultural Unions that determines which Galicia calls for the Genuine farmer to be the one with a minimum percentage of 30% of agricultural income compared to total income. Well, probably the ministry did this line below, about 20%, and I'm probably telling you, too, because you have to protect the farmers' entrance. They say part-time, we don't get our numbers, because part-time should bring some kind of commitment to agriculture from the point of view of income, but I think they have enough, Mr. Seco, because they have to give in to all the landowners of fruit and vegetables that will open the CAP on new surfaces and that will be a very important number of hectares. And don't forget that this is a common fund, the money that goes to the Levante, which is taking them away to other parts of Spain; and we're there, of course, going to plant ourselves. And how did we plant ourselves? And then I'd ask for your support. We have been planted demanding the central government not to talk about new surfaces, new crop orientations, while not correcting a historical deficit that Galicia has. Look, Galicia -- it's true -- has very little useful agrarian surface with respect to the total area, has 21%, when the average is 45% at the national level; i.e. all autonomous communities, the rest have twice the useful agrarian surface of Galicia, and that's what we have to work on with the Recovery Law. But another relevant fact is that, while others have much more useful agrarian surface, 80% of this area is eligible for CAP, do you know what our percentage is? 58. So we're 23 points below the electable surface. So we are there -- and in this sense I ask for the support of opposition groups -- we have already transferred to the minister that we will not negotiate any possible openings, and we will radically oppose if we do not open that electible surface. When I'm talking about electable surface -- so we understand that, in my first intervention, I said, here we have logging farms that have a territorial basis on which part of their surface is not eligible, it doesn't charge CAP for historical reasons. And we always defend it with historical rights, which are higher -- as you all know -- than in the rest of the autonomous communities. If we're now going to lower our historic rights -- which is what comes into the CAP reform -- they're going to have to go up the hectares; I think that's where we all have to agree. Another of the positions that I would also like to make clear here is that Galicia supports the aids associated with certain sectors whenever they are those we have so far, who know that I am basically the milk farmer; we are interested in that. Do you know what the ministry is proposing? A sectoral plan for olive oil. You know what this counselor said to them? That then I had to also bring a sectoral plan for the chestnut tree, because we don't have olive groves here, we'll have them, but for now we don't have any. I repeat again that all this money comes out of the first pier, this is a common bag, and if you go to the olive tree, you go out somewhere, and of course they're going out of the gloves of the cantabrian cornice. Another question, simply for the debate, is capping. Let's see, we have to support a capping -- this capping thing is that we limit the maximum amount of aid that can charge an exploitation -- we have to support 60,000 because we defend small and medium farms. I give you the memory data, Mr Rivas, but I think there are only three farms in Galicia that cover more than 60,000 euros of help from the first pier; therefore we fully favour that limit of 60,000. The fact is that in the negotiation in Europe, the limit of the 100,000 was set, and the salary costs are deduced, with which this is a little bit of a joke, because there really will be very little application of capping. But what we're asking for, because we're interested in -- and we're going to see how this is defined -- is the redistributive payment; that is, we have to dedicate an important part of the first piar to small and medium farms; listen, yes, but taking the average of Spain, we're going to see what the average of the useful agricultural area of the Spanish farms is, and from there, more money for those that have an area below the average, which are all Galicians, because we're far below -- as I told you before -- on a useful agricultural surface, both at the global level and also at the level of each one of the farms. So, I do think it's an important part of my intervention. I repeat, I think we should adopt a common position here, I do not know how we could articulate it right now, but I think it would be good to take a common position of this Parliament if we all agree. I repeat, we here assume the need to work with the cantabria horn because we can make more strength. You might say that some effect is causing us in the ministry, so we got here and some of the lines that they said they couldn't move are moving because they saw that position of autonomous communities, that they aren't governed by the same political party, and we also have the support of agricultural organizations, to which I thank them very much again for that support. If we also have the position of this Parliament or of the groups in this Parliament, because I think we can go much further. So -- and I already close this replica shift --, I think this appearance is being very helpful instead of talking about these main lines. We're not losing energy, we're clearly focusing on the important -- and therefore I'm going to listen -- I tell you the truth -- with great attention the next interventions looking at them in this common place where we share a view of the rural where I'm sure we can all work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u138	Thank you, Counselor. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u139	Thank you very much, President. It's always to thank you for your tone. And I take it as chascarrillo, but I always tell the management of my group that you have to look for a Applause like Mr. Daniel Vega, that we need a Applause with that level of intensity of applause our fellow Member has. [[Applause]] Counselor, several questions you left me on the table. One in relation to what is the Law of land recovery and all that we are discussing, which is certainly being very enriching. But what I was saying about research, we're still on the same line, we haven't prefixed any sort of question about this article, but of course what we're looking for is legal guarantees to make sure that this rule can't then have legal problems. And that is certainly why at the time we tabled an amendment in the line that we, of course, are in favour of land mobilization, but of what we have certain doubts is whether you can get there as the People's Parliamentary Group intends or whether you have to stay, as other autonomous communities, in a previous step. I think this is an essential subject and also other questions that we have raised, apart from control and other kinds of issues. And then it really brings me to my attention a question. We can agree that the European funds can be used or not for this type of action, which can be very positive and we have nothing against and, of course, we feel positive about the proposal, but we are surprised that when it talks about mobilizing agricultural land it only speaks of that possibility, and the law itself has to mobilize agricultural land there is or there is no such European funds. I mean, the budget of the Galician Union and the funds that are already adaptable and come from the European Union because they must be used for that. And we're talking about that, that regardless of how much money comes enough to mobilize more land through the Next Generation projects, because it looks positive to us. But what we say is that the law must be accompanied by an budget, by a staff -- that this no longer enters the budget -- that it is essential for the law to be put into effect; that it is not only what Agader has, but also the staff of the council itself that is in the territory, in the agricultural comarcas offices, in the forest districts and these kinds of issues so that this field work can be done. And also a schedule, above all, that's what we told you at the time, as long as we don't have that map and that land-use catalogue too, to go see where you can act and do it in coordination with other entities and also with the municipal world, which is going to be essential for the development of this law. And I was saying Mrs. Candia that the counselor was coming to listen, I think we came to listen. And, I mean, it's the counselor who asks for an appearance to show us his lines of action and we've seen him very gladly. And, of course, we take note precisely in order to be able to make that control of a government that has to do its work. I mean, when you say you're going to defend Galicia's interests before the ministry for a proper CAP, it's not that you want to do it, it's that you should, I mean. Like the ministry at the time, the minister was fighting in Europe for appropriate funds from the CAP at a very difficult time with the issue of Brexit and finally a reasonably beneficial agreement was reached for Spain, now it is up to the autonomous communities to fight each one for the interests of their own citizens and their own gain. And so I wouldn't have any other question that you have to do, and the ministry will have to do the wetting of all this to try to meet Galicia's interests as well as other interests. He told me back there the minister, one day that he was talking to him, that in Andalusia someone regarded him as not grateful, and he is Andalusian. So I mean that all that pressure comes from different interests according to the type of farms and the type of activities they have on their territory. And, therefore, I believe that it now consists of the Greek Government and also of other communities that have a similar idiosyncrasy to carry out all the pressure and have a common position to try to achieve all these issues, that we are aware of them, so much with regard to capping, that it is true that we benefited that it was inferior and that others were more interested in it; or how it will be the redistributive and this kind of question; as it will be the application of the genuine farmer. All these kinds of issues we have heard from him and we have spoken on many occasions both with the ministry and with the agricultural entities, of course he knows that since the Socialist Party in Galicia he has all the support he can have in trying to achieve the best agreement within that redistribution that is done at the level of the entire state. And then, with regard to the Next Generation funds, we have absolutely nothing, you know that we have nothing against any forest species. It's interesting to close cycles, Galicia has a deficit in closing cycles, but it's also true that we don't know what this project is going to be like, we don't know what kind of species it's going to treat, we don't know how it's going to work, we don't know what interests are behind and we don't know anything at all. What is also true is that there is a company like Ence that is in a complex situation and that could also be an opportunity this from the Next Generation funds to try to close cycles in Galicia, and even, why not, as they have asked -- and also in their day, Mr. Feijóo -- to get production out of Pontevedra. It could be one of the issues that might be on the table. If we have more reluctance with regard to that project of center of impulse of the circular economy with that of using purins to make biogas, because these are experiences that have failed in most of Europe, that are failing in Asturias, and that also gives the feeling when we talk about circular economy that in this case seems to be circulating shit through Galicia. I mean, is the circular economy moving the purin and all that it means about transport, consumption, pollution and these things to generate biogas and then move it back to making fertilizer? I think we should take a look at this question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u140	You must be done, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u141	... -- yeah, I'm done -- to see if it's the most timely. In any case, all the collaboration of this group and it will also have all the criticism that we have created timely, in addition to that you also make an important self-criticism on many issues that we have made, because from training up to research centres, how you find certain issues that I believe you yourself... because it was the case of SOFORs and the partial mergers that you have made a self-criticism that is to be thanked, but which shows, of course, that these previous 12 years of government have been quite bad for rural people. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u142	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor for the replication, by the Galego Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u143	...that he didn't explain well. What I was telling you about the mug -- the mug, as you would say on my land -- is the same thing that's happening right now. At that time Portodemouros was, and is still, just 20 kilometers away, 15 miles away in a straight line, and the light we had was a worm; and now with so much windy, so much electrical production, we still have our industries with the most expensive light in the state. And I'm very sorry, but it's still a colonial treatment and that's what I wanted to mention with that example. Counsellor, your speech has many shortcomings in the current situation. And I'm going to tell you some things, I'm going to ask you if you're going to get the help for new incorporations and improvement plans, or is that money going to be used for something else? Will the dairy strategy to support transformations continue to give millions of grants to milk powder? Yes, or to industries, Oviganic has taken 3 million euros and processed, the whole milk it processes is goat and sheep milk that comes from the community of Castela-León, and they turn milk into powder and butter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is the reality of help and I didn't want that in the future to be the idea of added value. When are you going to seriously support the extended gain, paying in time and in form the damage that the wolf does? I know it's environmental, but it has to do with us. The same thing happens with the angry pig, it's making damage already; at the moment, the crops that are being born are breaking up and it's undoing everything. That's right. The one about counseling, the comarcal agrarian offices: are they going forward or not? Are you going to participate in the Recovery Act or are you not going? Will they be gifted or won't they be gifted? Nothing told us of the pending agrarian elections since the beginning of this century, pending and beyond that there is a flagrant violation of legality in the Agrarian Council, in the formation of the Agrarian Council. By the way, in this legislation, at least half of the partial mergers that are going to end, I know they have difficulties, because the process is so certain that it's heavy and it has to be reformed at once, you have to make it agile, because if you don't, what can't be that at the speed at which society walks and the transformations in the agrarian issue at this time is not the time of 40 years ago. 40 years ago yes because 20 years were a whole world. A year ago it's an evolutionary world, it's a great evolution. You see, Counsellor and, above all, Mrs Candia, the fibre factory has a very high, very high environmental cost. And especially with the chemicals that are used, not just water, the chemicals that are used and that are marine canvas. The longer the fiber, the more chemical substances to cut it. So, well, how many more celluloses? I'll ask you the question again. And are the processes going to end here? I doubt it. Nothing told us of research, nothing told us of progress in dismantling the public agricultural research system. At Agacal's RPT they remove posts for investigators, only at ICAM are 4 researchers, 7 field posts and one support to the staff member. A saving of EUR 400,000, which will be used to create management posts in Agacal's central services, leaving research to the Pair. Totally, it doesn't matter, 11 researchers are in an administrative limbo and so on. Of course, the recovery of research must be the foundation of the transforming impulse of economic recovery... Words, word, word, word, and so should it, but it takes the path of not being in Galicia. The strategy of the dairy sector, increasing the territorial base, of course. Pastoral milk, of course. You're telling me how to get 150 cows out of an intensive holding? Who's got enough surface just to hit the ass all at once? Of course, this is the big problem, the big problem is that we're now, as the Portuguese say, in a dead end, that is, we're on a street that has no way out, we have to go back, or we have to have a real territorial base, and we're looking for future policies that don't push the macro-exploitations, they don't take the macro-exploitations, and they get the genuine exploitations of the Greeks and the Greeks that are the... Transformation, gainout, added value. All right, but let's agree, we're still producing 60% of the liquid milk and something will have to be done. Meat. When are the comarcal slaughterhouses? When do the comarcas centers support that craftsmanship, that dispersal of meat parts of all kinds, artisans? When for the manufacture of? When with machines of -- would it be cold --, with approved vacuum machines? When? When is that non-rural proliferation of life, transformative life? The problem of renters. You have to take that into account, land renters. At present, there are integrated garden and ecological garden companies that have rented land and are not in any contract. Why? Because those rents, that money, if you're in a contract, press on those people who charge 600 euros from the farm and can't be exposed to more money.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u144	You have to go through with it, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u145	And it's not fair that there's so little time for so much, is it? Finally, the Next Generation, Mr. Counsellor, must be thin rain. I'll give you an example. The problem of purins, the excess of purins in some areas isn't treated with biodigestion, it's about resizing Purin pits. I mean, you know most of the glovers, and the intensive glovers need to pull out the purin somewhere because they have the land occupied and it's not possible with the corn of this tall to throw out the purin or with the grass of this tall. And so they need storage space. We would have no problem with the royal decree of the jury that threatens us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u146	You have to finish, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u147	...the central government has already threatened us Tejerina, eh! And he was your minister, so you didn't say anything. It's not possible that way. The Next Generation funds have to come from down to top, we've already told them several times, they have to be like the thin rain that gently penetrates and produces wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u148	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the turn of reply, by the People's Party, Mrs. Candia López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u149	Thank you very much, President and good afternoon again. Mr. Seco, the best way to stimulate applause is with good arguments. Anyway, I like you to miss Mr. Dani Vega, I'll remind you in the committees. I definitely like to finish the afternoon......end the afternoon... the colleagues in the commission know what I mean. [[Laughter]] But I like this tone more than ever, I think that more than ever the citizens and, of course, our farm demands this useful policy that has been heard this afternoon and I feel very fortunate to be part of it. [[Applause]] Mr. Rivas asked you a lot of questions, Counselor, but you didn't answer the few questions you did to him. That's what urged him to come and listen. I value it because they certainly attend many meetings where the voices of the political groups could talk about a table and make positive contributions because, we insist, we put in the agenda of the consensus and in the agenda of the dialogue our primary sector. I think it's been perfectly clear and identified what the problems are, which are the areas where you can work. I thank that explicit support of the Socialist Party, I asked him as well as the counselor on repeated occasions, and today he has also had an opportunity to make it explicit, and I think that is undoubtedly the way. I think that in addition to citizens right now, I really believe that they would not forgive us any other approach or attitude, at such an important moment. And besides, if we have a council, if we have a Government of Greece that has shown itself -- let me insist that it insists because it seems very important to me -- to reach agreements with autonomous communities of different political color, to reach agreements yesterday, and the councillor told him, in an extremely interesting project in Verín, the Interlumes project, which even put several institutions on the table signing, but even reaching the country neighbouring Portugal. Because we all know, and Ourense's fellows know well, that fires don't understand borders or nationalities. I know that soon, Counselor, you will be in my province, this time in Valadouro, delivering the titles of partial concentration. I insist on and demand in this important instrument to expand the territorial bases and to continue with this articulated plan, with five perfectly defined axes that you have explained here today: the promotion, marketing, the internationalization of our products, bet on the economic sustainability of that agricultural and forestry sector. Mr. Rivas, we want an orderly Galician, where our farmers pick up, where they pick up our livestock, and I tell you loud and clear why I come from the Navy, where I take our forest sector. You have to take it all in an orderly way. They create many jobs and we must not criminalize, of course, a very important sector that has also been essential throughout this pandemic and has continued to work. Let's not forget, our challenge is to fix the population in rural areas, in which we all agree and fill our mouths. But the best way to fix population is without a doubt there are work opportunities. The rural area is resilient, has demonstrated it throughout history and will now show that it adapts to this Europeanisation. Training will enable us to be competitive and, above all, that challenge, Counsellor, who also knows that it is in his agenda, which is that simplification and administrative flexibility. Rurals need great consensus and probably rarely had the opportunity to have such valid, necessary and courageous instruments on the table. I think we have to keep working, tomorrow we even have a new presentation meeting, and we hope that next month we can at least have no votes against, I think it would certainly be the best example of useful policy that is demanded of us at such a complicated economic moment. By effort and, of course, by work in the part that represents me, along with the rest of my group's lordships, we're available. And, of course, I finish as I began, thanking all the work of the council, great professionals who, apart from any kind of ideology, with a common good, who are working for our owners and our farmers are showing absolutely marathon days and, of course, a capacity for dialogue and consensus from which, in my part, I feel deeply proud. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the double turn, you have the word of Mr. Rural Counsellor, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. I beg in advance to apologize if I stretch out a little more than I thought, but as Mr. Rivas asked me many questions at last I would not like to make this appearance certainly not to answer. Starting with the incorporation aids, if the incorporation aids are going to come out, of course, it's the next order to be published. In the order of improvement I have to tell you that at this moment we are still finishing with last year's requests, which extended the deadline due to Covid and will also be budgeted so that no request is out of order. We're talking about the order of 700 farm improvement projects that we're going to take care of. He also talked about those aids that are for agri-food industries, and it's true that Oviganic has a help there and I also have to tell him that Oviganic has committed and is going to sign an agreement with the Rural Media Council so that all the milk in Galicia of sheep and goat buys at a price that perfectly defends the sector. The problem is that we don't have that gain here, but we can work with a company of these characteristics that has a brutal marketing capacity in the Asian market and in addition to a lot of added value, in order to be able to foster a sector that is very important to us and that, of course, we will support. But it's just that Oviganic has already made his commitment to the yellow cattle sector, because he has just signed with Milk No that deal in which Milk No, I can't say the percentage, but he takes a percentage of participation in the complaint. So it's something we defend. We say that the owners can perfectly make milk and more participate in transformation business, and so we will assume, and in the next period of the CAP, one of the lines in the EAFRD is that we will support capital investment in the processing industry of our owners, either through associations or through cooperatives. So I think we're on an important line. As for agrarian organizations, I too, we're talking to the entire Galician Parliament, but I'd remind you or refer to my intervention in the budget appearance this year, in which money is clearly budgeted for the comarcas agricultural offices. But I also made the decision not to come and talk about things that are not done or about to be done. You'll soon see how we start our investments in comarcas agricultural offices. This subject of the pending agrarian elections is a historical question, there is no doubt that we will have to address at some point. I think the partial mergers I've already answered before. Chemical substances in fibre production. Let's see, I said the best practices in terms of wood that has to proceed, it has to be sustainable and therefore certified and with biodiversity and also in procedures. And I'm telling you, it's not only lower water consumption, but processes have to be in a closed circuit just because we're talking about it. There can be no fiber in the character of the lyocell or the modality that is not sustainable, because otherwise they don't pay it to the one who's paying it. And I'm telling him he's also expensive on the world market. As far as research centers are concerned, I've already assumed before I don't like the way they are and I'm also referring to this year's budget. When he speaks of pastoral milk and 150 cows, because he votes in favour of the Recovery Law, because the Recovery Law takes the management of uses and takes the permutations of special agricultural interest to remove the enclaves, among others, from forest plantations near the gainful facilities, precisely to give them that territorial base around the facilities. Of course they have to go out and do shepherding work. And, by the way, you're going to see it, it's a lot of talk to the sector, the mechanism that's developing the Galician Union is spectacular about the pastoral milk and the control of that shepherd, which you know we're very interested in, because it also gives a lot of value to our milk. He was also talking about meat, by the time the comarcal slaughterhouses. Also, I didn't like it and we had a lot to talk about, it's already planned and they're currently developing the work of the mobile slaughterhouse, we're going to have a mobile slaughterhouse this 2021 and we're going to be Spain's first autonomous community. I repeat, I like to bring things to this Parliament about all of you when, in fact, it is already being developed, so that we do not criticise that we announce things that later take a long time, that many times what it hurts most precisely that delay is me. But in the case of the mobile slaughterhouse, it's already in the budgets this year and the news I've got, which I've still asked now, is that we're going to have it this year of operation. When it comes to the exploits of genuine Galicians, there's no doubt about it, Mr. Rivas. We are in favour of small and medium-sized farms, without any doubt, because they are ours and because that's what we're interested in, continue to support them. Now we could talk, and here I'm sure there are divergent opinions because we all know a little bit about the subject, which are macro-granges. Galicia has at this point half a cow's mutated -- I refer it to the milk sector strategy data -- 42 cows. Of course, for you it's probably a lot, but for what the profitability of the sector probably has to grow a little bit more. It's the procedure that's taking place and it's critical; and I accept the criticism that the livestock sector disappears and I don't know what... but what's happening is precisely that natural concentration that will lead to the likely rise in the number of half cows, but here in no case will there be macrogrances. We're very interested in this group -- if it's almost 7,000 -- they're very interested in this group of Greek families that have very important incomes from milk and also in a completely professional way. And I, but it hurts anyone, I always say the same thing: they're entrepreneurs and now we're going to give them that training. And we're going to work on the computer application of production costs just so they have a tool to defend themselves against the trading industry. We have commissioned a dictation that ensures that this tool, if the data is properly inserted, believes the cost of production so that they can defend it against the contracts. What we ask the Central Government -- we've already asked for -- is that it now regulates correctly in the Food Chain Act that precisely, if we believe the production costs with a tool that is validated by the Autonomic Administration, that this will be respected in negotiation. Because then we would have walked a lot in terms of achieving that goal that all of us, I'm sure, want, which is that no producer will cover under the cost of production. And I always add: cost of production plus profit margin, because there is no entrepreneur who works alone for the cost, so he must also have that profit margin. Mr. Seco, maybe I didn't explain myself, sure, but when I talked about the next generation funds I talked about treating this as a singular project, encapsulating those 18,000 hectares and 200 model villages, and putting them on the table that, if we get private investment, they come from those Next Generation funds specifically for this project. But I also tell you, and you're going to see the EAFRD Follow-up Commission, that we're also articulating the EAFRD to provide budget7iyo7iyo7iyo7ntorally with the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia. It is entirely in favour of the terms agreed with the People's Parliamentary Group on any amendment to ensure the functioning and development of the law. And totally in favour of rendering accounts of that operation of the law. Because in addition to that, it's a good posture of the opposition. They understand that it's a good law for the Italian countryside, they approve that law, I don't say that they vote in favor, do what you think, but we say that we work to improve it and, from then on, if it doesn't work out who has to make criticism, it's the most interested in it being put into operation, that in this case it's me. I also understand what you said about the minister, he always talks about a Sudoku. True, you must agree with many interests that are opposed, but here, Mr. Seco, Mr. Rivas, I myself, here we defend the Greeks. We can associate with the cantabrian cornice, because they have agriculture and they'd earn like ours, but we're all going by hand. And I, as I say, will try to get us to have that appearance if it's possible precisely to strengthen; if not, we'll look for some way to get that support to be able to negotiate. It's just a mention, ladies and gentlemen, of the Circular Economy Impulse Center, because the Circular Economy Impulse Center aims to -- and it's a more environmental issue, the Environment Council, but also the whole of the work -- it's intended to give comprehensive treatment to waste. And that, Mr. Seco, is one of the first issues that probably led to the failure of the generation of pure biogas, which had only been told by purins, because purins have little energy capacity to do so. But if we're thinking in an integral way, we say that the raw material to do biogas can be a part of purin and it can be another part of other waste. And, if you do, we totally agree with two things that you said. I'm going to give you the position of the Middle Rural Council regarding the possibility of biogas being made with the purins. Two essential requirements. To guarantee the economic sustainability of our farms, that is, that you can charge them for purines when it's gold for the livestock and that they still go above ruining them, or by joke, we're not going to admit any cannon or any question that endangers the economic sustainability of the livestock. If there's an environmental problem here, we'll have to address it, pay it, otherwise, but not paying our payees. And whenever you use the remaining purin, and there comes what Mr. Rivas said, which is true that there are moments of the year in which we have not been enough in Galicia for all the purin that is generated. So also, responding to your criticism, Mr. Seco, that I also share, that you cannot be transporting pure throughout Galicia, the project creates storage facilities distributed across the territory. I can't need your number right now because we're working. But besides doing something else in those storage facilities, it makes liquid-solid separation, and therefore plants, which would not only be one, but we would also look precisely to avoid that transport more than one, would already go the solid part, which, as you know, is a very small part of the purines. And at the same time we're working on technical viability, and I think this would be decisive, that these storage facilities allow us at the time of the year that the gainers require from that pure for the gainers. Because if we remove some fluid from it, its application in the territory is much less polluting and, therefore, we would already be talking about a mechanism that could solve many environmental problems of puris, which, as you know, is an obvious concern. Mr. Rivas of the Decree of Purins, which is called this, and also of the issues that affect all of us. So, we're working there, I think with quite discretion, and I want to move a message of tranquility to the sector, in the sense that, of course, we're not going to allow this to have an economic impact on our livestock, and we're not going to allow it to be taken out of purin or jurors that are needed for the subscribers of their farms. Because besides, if we're betting on the recovery of Galician agricultural land, we're also betting on a greater need for that pure. I'm going to finish by now, but I'd like to refer to a subject just so that they can create a little bit of the work we're doing, which is the model villages, which I know is that a lot has been said about a window and a lot of different issues about them, give you the data about what we have today and also propose to you at Commission 7.a, as soon as we allow Covid-19, that you can make a visit to one of them. In particular, one that has an extensive and eco-friendly exploitation of a pig cell, which is already running and has a commercial brand in which it is selling its stuff. This concept, which was the first proof of the law that we have now quite developed in the Recovery Act, I have to say that there is some amendment that we are going to look with great interest because it has given us some important idea, essentially coming from the PSdEG, to see how we can articulate that use of model villages there as a formula so that people are encouraged to join the countryside and we can give you some support during the time they are testing whether you are interested in rural people or not. But here we are looking for is to recover the economic and social activity of the nuclei, gentlemen, starting from a premise: that there can be no recovery from any village if it does not put the land around it to work. No one is going to live in a village that has all the land left around. So we say: let's start the action by the cements, and what is the cement? Retrieve 30 or 40 hectares around the villages. With what? With traditional agribusiness exploitation. We have at this point three, the first of Galicia's Celtic pig in ecological and extensive, and we have two other autochthonous-breededed cows, too. So there we have already ensured that totally abandoned areas and that they were full of weeds and that they could burn with danger even for people are developing this agricultural activity. And now we're going to face the recovery of the villages as well, the urban side. The law, you've seen it, carries some model village dynamization plans. That's why we also asked the Next Generation funds to be able to do these 200 model village projects that would also lead to the recovery of villages, with a criterion of course with respect to traditional architecture, bio-economics, energy sustainability and network access and everything that has to do with connectivity. Because today you can't contemplate a village that is a model if you don't have these characteristics. We have these tendered moments -- I encourage all of you to propose to anyone who wants to take those projects -- 11 model villages, I say 3 are in operation and 8 have the production management projects published in the CEO this month. Now we're going to open up the competitive competition. But there's another data. He was also talking, I think Mr. Seco, about the need for municipal collaboration. Model villages always frame the Town Councils. By the way, we now have more than 60 requests for councils of all political colors, both in this Parliament and outside, working with everyone without any distinction. We get the support of 70% of the owners who have to rent to make the villages model, we start those villages. Now we've analyzed, within these 60, 25 model villages, in addition to the 11 already underway, which are going to be worth over 1,000 hectares divided -- take the data because it's important -- almost 18,000 hectares of about 4,500 landowners. I mean, a project that's already beginning to take shape and we've already started talking about size. Then we will also have to talk about how we sell and help to market these products, by the way, of an extraordinary quality. But, look, while we're deciding who comes into the competitive competition, we're putting sheep's flocks and goats' goats in cleaning up villages, we don't let the weeds grow again. We did the first cleaning with mechanical means and now we have flocks of goats or sheep in Boboras, on the Penedo, it's called the village; in the Dormouse Quintela, where, by the way, you've taken the village and you're a shepherd a boy who comes from emigration, a Venezuelan; in Infesta, in Monterrey, you have a flock of goats; and you're going to enter nearby in Muimenta, in Carballeda de Avia, where we're also going to put 300 goats of a boy who came precisely to join the agrarian activity as a result of this project. So we're fighting forest fires, we're doing prevention through what we know to do as a People's Party, to implement the economic activity that, in this case, I think it's the economic activity that we can support any one of us, because we're talking about surplus gain, with autochthonous races, and I also have to tell you that, at first, we declare all the model villages in ecological production, because when we're out there we say that the requirement is already accepted so that they can be in ecological production. Then it's up to the producer, but we've certainly assumed that there's this eco-production to accomplish, on the other hand, what we're asking for is the "farm-to-table" strategy, which you already know that it's asking to increase the agricultural surface dedicated to organic production. I'm going to finish this last intervention as the first one started. I really want to thank you, because in the first one I still didn't know what was going to happen, but the consideration of the time invested here today, by the position of the opposition groups and by the profit and usefulness that it had at least for me. And I want to refer again and again to the intention of this government, the Rural Council, to achieve effective legislation agreements on the issues so important that we mark here, to advance those lines of action. As I know them and we work on them, I'm sure we all agree on recovery, prevention and quality. Lines that are thought, as I explained to them, with overall vision, take specific measures, tools designed to reverse in rural, a direct benefit and also budgeted. And so, and finally, the future Law of Recovery of Galician Land, within prevention, everything we're working on, and the Galician Forest Plan, in which I encourage you again that we can talk about and whatever matters we can improve and do. As far as quality is concerned, both Galicia Agri-Food Quality and the future Food Quality Law of Galicia, they are all designed to grow from within Galicia, so that today's countryside is better than yesterday's rural. And I'm done now, but I repeat that these lines that I presented today, and I've already presented on some previous occasion, are the lines that will lead us to the rural future. For me, for everyone, it has to be a dynamic rural, seedlings of opportunities for those who already lived it and for those who want to live in it and also in it. A revitalized, safe and quality rural. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u152	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to agenda item 5, non-legislative proposals. Non-legislative proposal by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and María González Albert, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia in order to recognize the Bierzo as a province
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u153	No amendments were tabled. To formulate this non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good afternoon, evening already, to all and to all. I would like first of all to welcome the Galician Parliament to the representatives of the Coalition for Bierzo, who accompany us to attend the debate of this GNP, among which his secretary-general Ivan Alonso, and more his president, José Álvarez. In this well entered early 2021, the bicentennial of the province of Bierzo is remembered, an ephemeral that coincides in time, in addition to the celebration of the most important anniversary of the creation and functioning of the Bierzo Commercial Council. And precisely by taking advantage of this dual commemoration, which the Party of Coalition for Bierzo began a campaign, our neighbouring region, in order to try to vehicle a social and political reality, the debate about the identity of the Bierzo district and its best fit within the autonomous structure of the Spanish state. This recurring debate on Bercian lands is more lively this year than ever before and manifests mainly in three possible solutions that have also been reflected in different administrations and co-ercian corporations. On the one hand, the possibility of the creation of a Bierzo province within the Castile-Leon Community itself; on the other hand, the creation of a new autonomous community of Leon that included Bierzo; or the inclusion of a new Bierzo province within Galicia, the latter being that seems to have more support among the Bercian population. In this context, colleagues and fellow members of the Coalition for Bierzo are asking the Nationalist Block to bring here this same debate, since no one escapes -- or no one should escape -- that that lost province of Bierzo included in its territory, within what is now part of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. What's the point? It is only that Galicia does not stay away from the debate that is taking place in the neighbouring region that hits us directly; and it is also that Galicia historically has never been sidelined with this debate. And today we spoke here of Castelao -- there is now Mrs Candia --, and they were different companions of Castelao and other key people in this country -- like Bóveda, like Lugrís, like Manuel Iglesias, among others -- who constituted in 36 the commission to draft Galician Autonomy Statute in the Second Republic, a statute already their own in the preliminary title, in its article 2, prayed: "All territory bordering with the historical, cultural, economic and geographic characteristics of Galicia may be added." So -- I repeat -- this debate wasn't born today, and at that point came a coup d'état that triumphed absolutely everything and, among other things, this question. So we present this initiative, which aims to open a dialogue process that explores the options for territorial fit of the Bierzo, based mainly on its recognition. And by putting it a little bit in context as well, to say that in 1821, over the month of September, the constitution of the Bierzo province was decided; and in the absence of defining its capitality, which was finally defined on October 14 of that same year as Bierzo's Vilafranca. On 16 October, only two days later, it was published in La Gaceta de Madrid with the name of the province of the Bierzo, capital Villafranca. And on January 27, 1822, the Decree was published so that the Bierzo would definitely become a province and at that time he had jurisdiction over the judicial parties of Vilafranca, of Ponferrada, of Torreno and of the Barco de Valdeorras. The abolition of the province was not taken in principle as a definitive thing, but as a punishment for defending the Constitutional option of the Church at the end of that liberal triennium. And, in fact, he continued to quote in the local official documents the extinct province as if he were still in force. In 1834 the judicial parties of Ponferrada and Vilafranca do Bierzo were created, but, since the formal disappearance of this province, there have been over all these 200 years attempts to recover the institution; and finally, the Franco-Francist dictatorship and the 1978 Constitution, different political and cultural movements have been organized in Bierzo in this sense. An important point of inflection came determined by the eruption of the Coalition by the Bierzo at the Trade Council of the Bierzo, achieving in addition to several mayors and the Government of the Coalition in Ponferrada, and in 2015 at the Commercial Council itself. There are, as I say, numerous social and cultural movements in Bierzo, among others, the Bierzo Fair, The Medulas; more recently the citizen movement A Quinta, which directly advocates the creation of the Bercian province and its inclusion in the Galician community. All these and other movements have always fought -- and this is a common thing for all of them -- for the provincial law of the people of cradle, as well as for the development of the only institution that represents them as such today, which is the Bierzo Comarcal Council, created by the Autonomous Community of Castile-Leon in 1991. In this context, there are so many studies and surveys to date about the very favourable intention of cribs and cribs to regain their provincial institution. And to mention only the most recent one last January, a demographic study revealed that, in case of having to choose a new autonomic configuration, the Bercians and the Bercians would choose as a priority formula for joining the Bierzo to Galicia, preferably as a fifth province before joining a hypothetical new autonomous community of León. In recent years, it has also been several of the towns and parishes of the cradle that called for their integration into Galicia, as the source of the olive tree, recently, a parish of Balboa. An option also sighted with sympathy by the president of Galicia's own board, Mr. Alberto Núñez Fexóo, who made public statements in November, pointing out that it would not seem bad at all that the Source of Olive belonged to Galicia. But it wasn't just this case, Vega de Valcarce, Oenvia, Barxas, Balboa, municipalities that at various times and situations demanded their inclusion in Greek territory. Made this general map, at the BNG and the Bierzo Coalition, we understand that dialogue between the different administrations that today have responsibilities on the territory of the former province of Villafranca do Bierzo is necessary. And yet, apart from the historical changes in Galicia's administrative boundaries, the current legal framework expressly recognizes the existence of links between Galicia and the Bierzo. The Law of Linguistic Standardization, for example, sets out the need for the Greek Government to protect the language spoken in neighbouring territories with our autonomous community. It also defines up to 12 concrete measures of collaboration with Bierzo in this area. The Galician Autonomy Statute itself, which in its Article 35 empowers our autonomous community to establish cooperation agreements and agreements with other autonomous communities. And the Spanish Constitution itself, which in its Article 141.1 admits the possibility of modifying the provincial limits if such variation is approved by the General Courts by organic law. But, beyond historical issues, we're talking about the citizen's will. The reality determines that the neighborhoods of Bierzo and Valdeorras mainly, but also the border areas with the province of Lugo, we have today maintained common interrelationships and problems at very high levels: at the level of infrastructures, at the level of communications or incommunications, at the level of wind invasion, demography, tourism, the streets of Santiago, language, employment -- with special attention to the world of slate --, health -- with the exchange of professionals --, agreements for diagnostic tests in one and another community, primary care in the autonomous community contiguous, etc.; territorial organization, defense against fires, emergencies... and could go on like this. That they are often resolved very ineffectively -- I have to say -- because they belong to two different autonomous communities. And a clear case, a clear example is coordination or discoordination in the matter of fires despite the fact that there is an agreement that regulates it. For all this, this non-legislation proposal that is presented has four points of agreement: The first of them is to recognize the Church's right to become a province in which cribs and cribs decide their territorial fit through a popular consultation, an option which, as I pointed out, also recognizes the prevailing legislation in the state. A second point, which goes in the sense that Galicia does not shut the doors in case the free will of the Bierzo people is to be incorporated into our autonomous community. And in this sense, what is required is for the German Government to take the precise legal measures, always in accordance with the Castilla y León Board and the regulated channels established in the Congress of Deputies in order to verify at the institutional level that aspiration. Thirdly, in any case, we intend to open a dialogue with the Board of Castilla y León and the Trade Council of Bierzo in order to establish patterns of institutional collaboration in various fields -- as I said earlier: economic, social, linguistic, health, education -- but not only, and of mutual interest. As I pointed out earlier today, there are already several agreements between the communities in this sense, as well as a collaboration protocol that has been working for many years, so it would only be a question of continuing and deepening on this path. In addition, a stable and permanent forum for coordination and dialogue on matters affecting Bierzo, Valdeorras and Lugo's eastern fringe is required under Article 35 of our Autonomy Statute. And in this sense, we understand that the social reality and economic reality of these raean zones between communities is not being at all well covered by the agreements that are currently in force. And in fact, this Covid year that we've been in has shown how much to improve and progress on this path, because today -- April 13, 2021 -- we're still isolated, Valdeorras and Bierzo, one district from the other. Fourthly, collaborate with the Castilla y León Board and the Comarcal Council on the celebration of this second centenary of the creation of the Bierzo province, or the province of Vilafranca do Bierzo. In short, to recognize that the Beer exists and you want what you have to say if you listen also to Galicia, which is also heard in our country. As I said earlier, the current partnership protocol covers various issues, such as demographics, the Santiago Way, emergencies, language, health; and therefore the governments of the two communities recognize and know this reality, so we understand that this initiative has the whole meaning of the world in this Parliament. It's an initiative that -- I'm finished now -- aims to seek and find consensus in this House, and we understand that this year for the homonomistics that are commemorated is the chance for the Galician Parliament to open up ways in this direction and that is why we transmit this demand for coalition for the Beer. For now, nothing else. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u155	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Orange.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, your PNL proposes to recognize the Church's right to become a province. Let me tell you from the root that it seems quite strange for the Galician Parliament to stand on a territory that is outside Galicia, for many sentimental, linguistic, geographic or any kind of bond that may exist. And go ahead that I have special affection for the Beer, which is a place, in my opinion, frankly stimulating and edifying. [[Applause]] But so rare is your proposal that, if we take that path, we could end by asking from Galicia that you recognize the right to decide about Cornualles, Wales or Brittany, that there are those who think they have historical ties or we would almost say that prehistoric with Galicia. And the truth is, I really enjoy myself very much thinking that I'm half a cell or even three quarters of a cell, but it seems -- very strange and, as it seems, I don't think it would be that without saying you want to sit down a precedent to recognize that dangerous and harmful invention called right to decide, that there is neither there nor should -- in my opinion -- ever exist, because it would be a source of eternal conflict. Eternal conflict. And just the best policy seeks to avoid conflict and exactly what the world needs is more conflict than what it already has, which are enough. Because in a simplified way, I have to say that in politics you can be to hold bridges or to dynamite them. In other words, you can be in politics to add or to remain and divide, consciously or unconsciously, because many of the outcomes that occur in the world have more to do with ignorance than with evil. And the great politicians were able to add, even multiply, but they were always able to hold bridges between the past and the present, between the present and the future, between the landscape and the landscape, between people who thought differently, who were born in different places or who had different colors of the skin. And there will even be those who think that one way to hold bridges is to tend them to the Bierzo from Galicia, of course, so that a possible Bierzo province could join Galicia as the fifth province, but the problem is that, in order to add territory to Galicia, I would have to take it to León, and the problem is that political confrontations that can be associated with a decision of that kind and silence could generate all sorts of conflicts, disputes, instability, disorder, chaos I also don't want to make me trembling, but at last... look at history, because in history there are many examples, many examples. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And I say disorder, chaos, especially, if I have to tell you the truth, especially within the Bierzo, because according to a survey of last year, which seems to have quoted your representative earlier, in a survey... at last there may be a lot of surveys, but, well, there is one and said that most of the population of the Bierzo would be willing to be a province, but part of that would prefer that this province to be within Galicia, another part, that it was inside Castile and León, and another part defends that it is a province of a hypothetical future, even independent León. What a mess! I mean, it's often a mess when it turns out that among the cradlers who prefer the Beer to be a province, there are three different and mutually exclusive visions, because they are mutually exclusive, they clash with each other. Not to mention those who don't want the province, which I suppose will also hit the other groups. If the PP ladies and gentlemen say we can't talk about corruption, it would be wrong -- while we're in the pandemic, of course -- that I applied the same argument; but it's not the same talk of corruption to debate a hypothetical fifth province of Galicia with which it's falling. And the one that's falling is an unprecedented health and economic crisis, and the biggest fall in the economy since the Civil War, a fall in GDP last year of the 11% that exceeds that which has been accumulated during the entire major recession in Spain between 2008 and 2013. For a single year more than in the whole big recession in five years. And then we could, of course, talk about history, but history is to learn not to fable, and the province of Bierzo existed in the liberal triennium, that is, 200 years ago. And it's fine, if we get tremendous, you can tell me that at the time of Caracalla, the Roman province of Gallaecia occupied the current Lion, as well as Asturias and also northern Portugal. Or we can talk about the kingdom, which to me is a fascinating thing. Or of Xelmírez, who, trying to create a Greek kingdom, has just created a Portuguese kingdom, because historical adventures are known as they begin but hardly as they end, which advises to stick to that wonderful principle in the form of phrase attributed to Eugenio D'Ors, which says that "the experiments, with gaseous." Moved to the present, experiments can be done with many things, but of course not with the borders, because at the moment when we start playing with the borders and the flags there are always dead, and not few dead, because the history of the conformation of the borders of Europe, and I don't want to put myself tremendously, uh, but it's a reflection that I leave there at random, the history of the conformation of the borders of Europe is a history made with blood, gentlemen of the BNG, I'm sorry to tell you, but this is how history is analyzed, the borders are made with blood, and the flags on excessive occasions lead to bloodshed. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And you're talking about recognizing the Church's right to become a province. It reminds us too much of the right to decide, and the right to decide is a deceptive and reactionary concept. The hypothetical right to decide is a deceptive and reactionary concept because the problem of Catalonia, by setting the main example in this country, as it could be in Euskadi or others, is not that they have little self-government, but that with the self-government they have, which is more than what the parts of most of the federal states have, are going through for a decade in disarray and in the absolute delirium, among other reasons because the Catalan convergents wanted to make a run ahead of their corruption in their moment by embarking on the adventure of independence and confrontation with the state with the results that we all know, and that they are not good; as you think they are good, but they are not good. Because for people like Mr. Puigdemont the homeland seems to start in his pocket, and the problem of the hypothetical recognition of a hypothetical right to decide is what it means to open the door to all kinds of nonsense. Because I'm not talking about legal considerations anymore, I don't want to get legal, but you know what it means to change the boundaries of the provinces in Spain, I don't even have to explain it to you, do you? Open the door, that right to decide that, following the Catalan example, the discontent with a hypothetical Catalan and independent nation claimed their right to create the autonomous community of Tabarnia, which would be united with Spain and separated from that independent Catalonia. Or that of a hypothetical independent Greek nation if the independent republics of the Coruña and Vigo, which are richer than the rest of Galicia and could say that they are not interested in having ties with the rest of Galicia the poorest. If you don't think that, that's impossible... of course. Well, it seems impossible to you, to me it seems perfectly possible. Or the independent republic of Plane, which may wish to associate with Mexico, or the independent republic of Salvaterra do Mineño, which may wish to associate with northern Portugal, bearing in mind that, as we know, the north of Portugal has recently given us soups with waves. Because, on the other hand, as the Supreme Court said, it reflected on the Canadian Supreme Court at its time, if the parts of Canada -- speaking of a paradigmatic example of the supposed right to decide -- if they recognize the right to separate themselves from the whole, the parties would also have to recognize that right with respect to the separate part, which ultimately leads to political and geopolitical nonsense, to which everyone is ultimately constituted, and as I say, in the independent republic of their home, which, instead of being a very sympathetic publicity, would become a politically and geopolitical reality that is frankly harmful to a world that, rather than moving forward in the recognition of independent fictitiousness, must learn how to manage interdependence. To finish, I repeat, experiments, with gas, this is so much affection, maximum respect, maximum connection and maximum cooperation of Galicia with the Bierzo. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u158	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Albert, Mrs. Albert... I must confess that, after listening to Mr. Arangüena, for a few moments I have been about to sympathize with his initiative, I have to confess, but let me once again regain the thought that crossed me earlier and that my intervention begins by sincerely apologizing to the Galicians and the Greeks, who, in the midst of a pandemic that ended with the life of over 100,000 Spanish citizens, that with thousands of Spaniards and Greeks in ERTE, with autonomous and small businessmen who are busy and concerned about the viability of their businesses and businesses, with the prospect of an economic and social crisis that we still do not know the proportions, that the priority of the BNG in this plenary is to debate the creation of a new province in Castela and León frankly seems to me to be a genuine frivolity. [[Applause]] I don't think we'll have to show you the lack of contact with the social reality that surrounds you, and I'm telling you honestly; of course, as you know the Rules of Procedure, you have every right to present initiatives that you consider appropriate, but I think I have the right to value them, too, right? The case is that you base your proposal on the existence of, and I quote literally, "numerous studies and surveys that show the favourable attitude of the cribs" to the approach they presented today. You quote those studies and surveys. A 1995 UNED study or survey of 850 interviews in Ponferrada Town Hall. I suppose a study by a student from UNED, legitimate and respectable, but... according to the numerous studies and surveys. A survey by Huaris CC, CC Huaris Call Center, which I'm sure is a very solvent company, but it's not even dedicated specifically to the field of demoscopy, of 600 interviews conducted in 5 municipalities. And so far, the numerous studies cited by the BNG in their initiative. It's true that in a similar initiative, which the Beer Coalition presented in the Bierzo, it cited another study, that of a website, Electomania, you don't quote it. I don't quote it, because it's a study of nearly 5,000 questions, 5,000 questions, and of course, although you say that the highest prevalence is that of the province of Galicia, the fact is that, of the different options offered, 30.3% of the consultants bet on some type of link with Galicia and 60.6% on the contrary. And this is the basis for his initiative. And with these bases and in this context you are putting forward initiatives that would involve the adoption of one or two organic laws, the modification of two self-government statutes, and even the creation of a third, the creation of a new provincial deputy, the creation of a sub-delegation or a delegation from the Government, the adaptation of the Church to the Greek legislation, the officiality of the Greek in the Bierzo. I suppose they would explain to the cribs that it is the obligation of knowledge for them to have options or access to the Welsh administration, and I suppose I also don't know whether the removal of protection to the Latvian language or its incorporation into the Galician Statute. This is your claim. To address this complex process, the BNG refers to the free will of the Bierzo society, which, as far as we know, manifested itself regularly through free and democratic elections. In these electoral processes, the Bercian society has selected its representatives in the various institutions by awarding the Coalition for Bierzo 2 representatives at the Bierzo Commercial Council, 2 of 27; no provincial deputy and no autonomous member. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, you are taking too far the concept of social majority. Look, you consciously ignore the popular will of the cradlers and pass over their institutions and the self-government of Castile and León. Where is respect for the legitimate institutions of other territories? Why has this non-law proposal not been submitted to the consideration of the Bierzo Commercial Council? Why is this lack of respect for Bierzo? I don't understand, I don't know what the cradlers did to you to hate them, but you must love them very badly to even wish them to be under the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Look, that's maltreating them by the BNG! Well, they don't cut and explicitly ask for it from the Feijóo Perfido! [[Murmurs.]] It's a terrible thing. Tremendous, tremendous, I never thought you were such evil. [[Applause]] Look, the fact is that the Galician Union and the Galician Parliament, while the Galician People's Party has the majority confidence of the Greeks, will be scrupulously loyal to the institutions of our neighbours and friends of Castilla and León and Beer. If the Comarcal Council of Bierzo or the Castilla y León Board require the evaluation of the Italian Government to address the real problems of people of this friendly region or to narrow the cultural or friendship ties that bind us, because they will find in us the greatest collaboration, as we have been doing since the Galician Union for years, as demonstrated by collaboration in the dissemination and promotion of Greek in the Bierzo. Cooperation agreement for the promotion of the Italian language in the neighbouring territories of the Autonomous Communities of Galicia and Castela and León, signed in 2001, which was subsequently reinforced with the general protocol of collaboration for the promotion of Greek in Bierzo and Sanabria in 2006. And, thanks to that, in this same year, there are 904 students studying in English in 14 primary and childhood centers, 140 other students in 4 secondary and bachelor's schools, 38 students at the Official Language School, collabore in the Sarmiento days for the empowerment of the Greek in the neighborhood, and supports the Morales Prize, for the promotion of the Greek in the Bierzo. All this seems reasonable. And whatever you're looking for is a combination of solutions to real problems that the cribs might have seems reasonable. That neither the German Government nor this group will lend itself, and as long as we can prevent it, the Greek Parliament is the one which instruments the Bercians and their institutions as currency of exchange for the pseudo-imperialist delusions of the Galician Nationalist Block. Because this is not. [[Laughter]] Yes, yes, I say that of pseudo-deliriums because, indeed, we cannot take it seriously, at least not enough to call it delirium. And, finally, ladies and gentlemen, that you want to take advantage of the celebration of an ephemeral -- by the way, not of an homonomistic, the celebration of the saint -- a prominent ephemeral to do a cultural dissemination work seems reasonable to us and, if there really is a request for the official channels of collaboration, I'm sure that Junta is willing to attend. If what you're trying to do is get your sardine to bring here a speech that I honestly believe does not arouse any interest in the whole of Greek society, because they shouldn't count on us. As I have a few moments, I take advantage of making a clarification on a matter that has previously been raised by the ignorance of the Menguele case. I'll tell you what. Judge Garzón's research on the use of indigents as rabbits of Indians to assess the use of pentothal as a tool in the dirty war on terrorism. Yes, yes, if I know him, what I didn't know was you... and when there's no knowledge I think you should have some caution to do your best in one of the most boisterous and sordid cases of state cloacas... that prudence should... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u159	That's already been debated, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u160	I think it's very interesting that makes you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u161	Mr. Paz, on the issue of Beer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u162	...hilarity a matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u163	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u164	...that ended with the life of an indigent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u165	What do you mean, no? The question of Beer. Mr. Paz, that matter is already under discussion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u166	Yes, yes, I'm allowed, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u167	That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u168	The question of Beer, as I told you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u169	Now let's go to the Bierzo question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u170	...is that, of course, we will offer that friendly comarca all collaboration in the field of real solutions to the problems that real people have in real territory. And we're not going to be part of this little pantomime that you've agreed to here today by going over here, which is incredible in a political formation that is considered nationalist, of historical rights and of self-government by an autonomous community of neighbors and friends. I am so sorry that today we are wasting our time discussing this issue that is of little interest to the Greek society. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u171	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the first day -- and I don't think it's gonna be the last -- that I'm ashamed of in this Chamber. [[Applause]] I'm going to do it first, I thought I'd have to answer a lot to the People's Party, but the truth is, I'm going to focus more on my replica on the PSOE, because I'm really annotated. I'm going to do first of all the last words of the spokesperson of the People's Party, which in addition to having no decency to occupy the debate time of this PNL on the subject that was concerned, he devoted himself to talking about other things. But I do take the phrase you said that when there's ignorance, you have to be more prudent. Because you have shown here an absolute ignorance not only of the reality of the Bierzo, but of the common reality of the Bierzo and the east of our country. [[Applause]] I understand that for the People's Party rights are always secondary and that they seem to be extemporaneous because for you rights are always secondary, for the BNG, of course they are not. And we respect, among other things, I'm going to make a little point because you talked about the language rights of the Bierzo people. We respect and will always respect linguistic rights, I know it's not common here often to respect people's linguistic rights, but of course BNG also respects them. [[Applause]] And this initiative was presented at the Bierzo's Comarcal Council, three of these four points, and in addition the Socialist Party voted in favour and the PP abstained. I'm just saying it as a margin comment so we can see where the parties are in an autonomous community and where they are in our country. And also the president of the Comarcal Council of Bierzo, Mr. Álvarez Courel, went out today in the press expressing his absolute interest in this debate that took place here today to know what we thought from the Galician Parliament, since there is a large part of the Bercian population that feels identified with our country. Today's statements by the President of the Trade Council, member of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. And I think that caricature is really the resource of those who have nothing, nothing, nothing to argue with; which is what happened to the spokesman of the Socialist Party. I know that talking about territorial issues gives some sarpulity, but it makes them sarcastic to talk about the provincial organization of the Spanish State, the truth is that sometimes I find it fascinating, it seems to me to be a lack of respect for this House and for the whole of citizenship. To talk about dead people here when we are talking about a debate about the territorial organization within the autonomous system of the Spanish State and which, I repeat, the Spanish Constitution recognizes in its Article 141; an organic law, it is not changing the Constitution, it is an organic law that is approved in the Congress of Deputies without any problem when there is a will to do so. I think, really, sorry, you've come here to talk about the Romans! The Romans had no Constitution, the province of Bierzo was approved by the Constitution of 1831, and now we have another Constitution that recognizes the right to modify the provincial organization of the Spanish State. The universe is not finished by changing a province of autonomous community. It is true that the provinces were not born with the Romans or Atapourca... I don't know. I just... I really don't... [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the right to decide is a recognized democratic right. You spoke of the alleged right of self-determination, of the problems it brought; it is a right recognized by the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and also by the Covenant on Social and Economic Rights. And we're not talking about self-determination, we're talking about organization -- I heard it -- -- I heard it -- [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u173	Mr. Orange, you've spoken. Now answer Mrs González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u174	I repeat that it is an absolutely internationally recognized right and I know that in our state many times, I don't know, it is a problem for many people. Valdeorras and The Bierzo live the two districts on the outskirts of our respective communities and countries, as far as Valdeorras is concerned. And today I miss here the ex-Deputies of the Maco Acuña PSOE and the People's Party White Moses, who at least would know what we are talking about and would not serve as an example of this absolute ignorance and of this contempt, indeed, to an initiative that, I repeat, as I said several times in my speech, is not born of the Galician Nationalist Block, but is the transmission of a will of a political party that represents a part of the birthplace citizenship. I suppose you won't deny it. And there is -- I repeat -- a social reality that has to be managed. And ruling, as far as it relates to Galician Union in this case, has to be something more to manage. But we are -- at least -- I'm speaking for myself -- I'm in politics to be able to change things, as far as I can, and be able to improve the living conditions of people; and this -- for me -- has to be the final goal of any government that has a vocation for service; you today have recognized that you have no interest at all. It's not at any time to mark the Bierzo people the way they should walk, the only thing that this PNL wanted is that Galicia never shuts the doors, as she never shuts them, never shuts them. But as we go back in a lot of things, we're also going back in here. It was all about not bandaging in front of a reality that's opening up a step. You've talked about different studies, you've mentioned three -- there's more -- but in addition to what those studies show, it's an evolution over time that progresses in the sense of getting interested in joining the Autonomous Community of Galicia. In any case, it will always be a decision of the people of the Beer, it will not be a decision that comes, of course, from our country. And, I don't know, we're not talking -- I repeat -- about taking the word to steal it from the neighborhood of Beer, but it was about showing them that Galicia is not hostile land and it's not an impermeable land to its realities. Of course, you have shown not only to be hostile and waterproof, but to be absolutely ignorant and losers, I don't even know how to call them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-13-DSPG031.u175	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. [[Applause]] We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
