ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, No. 229, of 18 November 2021. It is therefore not read. He has justifiated his absence, and has delegated his vote to this plenary meeting, in accordance with Rule 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, Mr Moisés Rodríguez Pérez, to Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. We come into the agenda with the first point, of legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, of the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 on the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u2	The following amendments are kept. For the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, document number 1 in document number 24836, and for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, number 1 in document number 24809. The president of Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, Mrs Porro Martínez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Before presenting the dictatorship, I would like to highlight the work of the rapporteurs of this bill, that of the House's Juridical Services, and the desire for dialogue and agreement between the groups; a consensus which led to unanimity in Commission 5a. That unity is essential to continue to take steps for equality and against macho violence. This bill comes to plenary in the same week that we commemorate the Day against Gender Violence, although the fight against all forms of abuse against women is an obligation and is a necessity of every day of the year. And now I'm going to read it when I say it. The Bill amending Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 on the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, formulated by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, was entered into the Parliamentary Register dated 22 May 2021, with the number of seats 16419, and its legislative background, with the date of 1 June, with the number of seats 16802. As a matter of fact, your admission to the proceedings was carried out by the Bureau of Parliament at the meetings of May 24 and June 7. Following its consideration at the plenary meeting on 22 June, a deadline for the submission of amendments to the articulated, which ended on 17 September -- the fourth extension -- was agreed upon by the 5th Commission on Health, Social Policy and Employment. A total of 8:5 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and 1 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia were the demands for the joint procedure submitted and admitted. Commission 5th, at its meeting on 23 September, appointed the rapporteur to prepare the report, which, consisting of the following three meetings, with the assistance of the rapporteurs, Mrs Prado del Río, Mrs Rodil Fernández and Mrs Díaz Varela, prepared the report with the final recommendations, which were issued on 21 October. The 5th Commission, at its meeting on 11 November, unanimously adopted the opinion that the debate and vote should be put to the vote in this plenary session, with the incorporation of four amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, two of which were negotiated, one from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, also negotiated, and one from the People's Group of Galicia, as well as the corresponding technical amendments, the text of which is, in addition, the statement of reasons, a single article, divided into six paragraphs, of an additional provision and a derogation. It is therefore necessary to complete today the processing of the legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of this Bill amending Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Porro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now turn to the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. It will be in this month of November, sadly dedicated to violence against men, when the German Parliament approves the modification of the Welsh Law for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, introducing digital violence as another form of violence against women. A great advance, no doubt, which, in addition to what has already been done in the same way in other autonomic parliaments, we expect to be followed by the relevant reform of state legislation. I have to say that it tells us that it is, that they are studying it and that they are working on it. Male violence, far from disappearing, is changing over time and has an incredible capacity for adaptation to continue to perpetuate control over women. That's why it's necessary -- we think -- to move forward in new forms of protection, and that's precisely what we're doing here today. Information and communication technologies and new ways of communicating have been intrusing everything, and we have to be very aware, all of us, of how they allow continued violence in an area of enormous projection such as these ICTs to spread hate speech, sexist speeches, which continue to hurt women a lot. And if digital gender violence is becoming more and more common -- because it is, and I think all of us agree on this issue, and even more so in those long periods of confinement that we have suffered last year, in which technologies have been our avenues of communication with the outside -- this is becoming even more evident in younger people, of early age, and this is something that in the PSdEG we're very concerned about. That's how the Government's Delegation for Gender Violence warned him in a recent study entitled "The Cyberpathic as a way of exercising gender violence in youth: a risk in the information society and knowledge," and so he warned him in his report a few weeks ago Save the Children: It's not love: an analysis of gender violence among teenagers," in which they made it clear that youth expresses greater sexual harassment through technologies, generating new forms of violence that go beyond what we know as cyber-acoustics or cybercontrol. This Save the Children report is already talking about new forms of social control that are expanding across the network, such as cybermysoxynia, which we will now be talking about within a mouse. These forms of social control manifest themselves with comments, for example, that seek to insult women, with phrases like "women only serve..." or "women are all one..." etc. Or also very worrying is symbolic cyberviolence, which seeks to convert women into sexual objects. The hypersexualization of girls' bodies also has a lot to do with this question of these new uses of technologies. These two types of violence, cybermysoxynia and symbolic cyberviolence, which points to Save The Children, share the same social context, still marked by stereotypes, roles and, of course, a lot of inequality. It is that, in fact, on the Internet and on social networks is where the newest population is comfortable and develops its relationships without the limitations that exist in other areas. Therefore, certain behaviors or patterns of internet use, manifested on the Internet, instead of being interpreted as something harmful or risk practices, are not perceived as normal, are unimportant nuisances. Fortunately, the answer to all of this is fast. The Law on Children and Adolescents adopted in Congress this year, with the support of all parliamentary groups in this House, has already incorporated this case and, moreover, with great weight in the law. And it was precisely this law, adopted in Congress, that the PSdeg took a little as a reference to our amendments, which we understand greatly improve the initial objective, precisely because we wanted to go beyond the inclusion or conceptualization of what is the violence of digital genre and its inclusion in our law; we also wanted to create certain synergies that would help perceive or work on its eradication. By the way, some amendments that we appreciate were accepted, as has already been said. On the sidelines of the logical ideological discrepancies, which exist, I would like to see how in the matter of violence, the three parliamentary groups reached great consensus with the greatest of generosity, and also with the best of dispositions. Thus, the majority group of the House, the People's Party, understood that our approaches -- we think -- improve the initial goal, because we try to include in the law actions that help to work in prevention and that have to do with awareness of this kind of violence, with their research -- very important -- with education -- fundamental -- and also with the necessary axile and urgent mechanisms to detect harmful content on networks that undermine dignity and also against women's integrity. Of the total of the five amendments we tabled, four have been accepted, as already said, and which has not been accepted, it can be said that, in a way, it is also included, because a self-amendment of the People's Party has been accepted that in the definition of digital gender violence it already incorporates that such violence does not have to be exercised in a sustained way in time. And we have a very recent case here in Galicia, which is the case of the Maruxaines. By the way, from here we welcome the reopening of this case, which was not a case of digital violence sustained in time, but it was a fact on time, and for us, of course, it is also a flagrant case of violence of digital genre. We just want to make a point here -- because it has to do with that amendment that was not accepted -- to this definition of macho violence. In the PSdEG we ask, like the Galego Nationalist Block, that if we included in that definition of digital violence a new concept... or, rather, a concept that is not new, and we ask that the term "mysoxynia" should also be included. Finally, as I say, it has not been accepted, and I want to explain briefly why we are asking it to be introduced, in addition to what has already been said about Save The Children's report, which speaks of this new concept of cybermysoxynia. And it's just that, having consulted this question with experts and experts on the subject, the picture that opens up to us -- men and women, but basically against women -- is terrible. And I'm saying it's terrible because it's very difficult to cut down everything that happens in that virtual space, always, by the way, hidden and after the anonymous coward. Because we are no longer talking only about sextorsion, grooming, cyberacoustics, etc., no, we now have to talk about other kinds of attitudes that have to do with misoxynia, and the center of this misoxinia are hate attitudes on social networks, hate against women, which are already studying much, by the way, in the Anglo-Saxon field and which is framed in a new concept that is called the "manosphere." The word manoeuvres none and none of us, probably alone, but even now it's working on this issue of digital gender violence. So for us to make an idea, then, "forocococaches", or "forocoteros", or "incelles", are all of them words or pages, which are in the globosphere and which have to do with this handsphere, which is finally to acubulate authentic herds. So you make an idea, in a very recent study -- so recent that, in fact, it's not even finished, but they're already working on it and they're already drawing conclusions -- that it's done and that it's involving prestigious universities like Illinois, like Boston, University College, London, or Max Planck Institute, they've classified, in this world, four types of members that I'm now going to sum up very briefly -- because it's not a matter today to deal with this, but, in a way, it gives us an idea what we're talking about with this misoxynia-- There are four types of members in the workforce: some are the activists for the rights of men, who are men who claim they are losing their rights in relation to women. Another guy is the men who follow their own path -- who have an acronym, MGTOW-- They're men who are sick of women and who live their lives without them. Then we have the ones who get to call the pick-up artist, who are men who dedicate their lives to going out in series with women. And then there are the incells, which are the involuntary celibates; they are men who do want a couple, they want a wife -- actually, what they want is a wife, in this term, as I say-- but they don't know how to get it. Precisely because of this kind of conceptization of masculinities, there is now talk and there is a new concept, which is the feminist men, who speak of these new masculinities that we think are necessary. But these are not new masculinities we're talking about, but you can understand that we're talking about rather archaic masculinities. Precisely because of these kinds of conceptualizations of these four types of men who self-declared themselves in this way, we considered it necessary to introduce this concept, as I say, of misoxynia, and hence that amendment, which is why we also maintain. In any case, I also have to say that, despite its non-inclusion, we think the definition of what digital gender violence is remains clear. Well, I want to explain briefly, in addition to this, our amendments. The socialists also introduced in that articulate of the law that can potentiate research on digital violence, considering that it is something very new that unfortunately also came to stay. It is important to investigate why we can implement effective policies. That's why we need to know both the profile of women victims and the profile of the aggressors, and also the frequency of this violence, the means through which it is committed, the impact, of course, on the victims and, as otherwise, on the institutional response. Education is also fundamental. So we incorporate as an amendment that in the drive of activities directed at the school community to prevent this kind of behavior there is a special focus on digital violence. Similarly, we have introduced the focus on this kind of violence in campaigns to raise awareness and train the youth population. Finally, we incorporate a new point that is incorporated as one more paragraph in the second additional provision of the law, on the control mechanisms for the Government of Greece to push, with the main intermediation platforms of the Internet, collaboration agreements. For what? For the purpose of establishing criteria and axile mechanisms and urgent complaints and also control and detection mechanisms for the removal of content related to this digital gender violence. We know this is not an easy task, but if we think it's important to work on it. So, well, there's not much left to congratulate us on all the work done by the three parliamentary groups, but of course we don't want to finish this intervention without keeping record of our concern that this necessary legislative change is also accompanied by a lot of other work. From then on, our amendments also dealt with other matters, in addition to this typification or this inclusion. Once again, as I say, this violence is defined in the law, that we also work in prevention and we also work in pedagogy. When I say pedagogy I mean that many times with this new form of violence, basic rights are violated and we are not aware that they are also violence towards women, but moved to a virtual world, and not that's why they're less harmful. And besides, as experts point out, there is a very low perception of these negative effects of these behaviors, which most of the time, as I said before, are behaviors considered irrelevant. That's why we -- I repeat -- consider it necessary and important -- we have no doubt that it will be done; we here will also fight for this to happen -- to accompany this law of putting in place ambitious plans of awareness, of information, to identify these new figures of violence, to prevent its appearance, as well as to offer recommendations -- it's nothing smaller -- and resources to get needed help; not only to properly use these new technologies, social networks or platform that is, but also to make those women who feel attacked know where they can occur. I'm finishing by putting back on the tone, the constructive character of the entire debate in presentation, which in some way points out that in the fight against violence against women in Galicia we all walked and all -- as it couldn't be otherwise -- by hand. Nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor for Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. In fact, today is the final debate and the vote on this bill for the incorporation into the Galician legislation of struggle and prevention against the masquerading violence of the concept of "digital violence", and we, from the BNG -- say it already in the Commission and in the Phoenician Parliament -- will vote in favour of the text, and we believe that it will come out unanimously, once again, this issue. We have also said from the very first moment, in the debate to take into account the proposal of the People's Party, which is a necessary reform, which is a reform that we see fit to update the German Law on Mashist Violence, in an aspect that in today's society is key, as are the new technologies, in general, the network, and also the changes that democratization in access to the Internet and in the development of platforms, social networks and other information and communication technologies have generated in our daily lives. This happens because nowadays the mobile phone -- it's not nearly the computer, but the mobile phone -- is an extension of our own body. The network is a place of more leisure, a place of more work, entertainment, information and socialization, and also an important part of the socialization of human beings is sexual relations between us. In this way, sexting, that is, sharing photographs, videos of sexual or other content, sharing them with another or other people, is an increasingly common practice. This is an objective reality, not an opinion. The use of the Internet and new technologies between childhood and adolescence recently was the subject of the publication of a macro-study. I think it's the biggest thing that's ever been published and done in the whole of the Spanish state. Unicef wrote it. Mrs. Díaz de Save The Children spoke, but there is a study that Unicef has published now, around November 20, on the Day for the Rights of Children and Adolescents -- that today, in addition, I think we're going to read a statement about this date -- which also has a very important exhibition in educational centers in our country, in which more than 3,000 young men and boys from between the first and fourth parts of ESO, of which we still don't have the disaggregated data for Galicia, which will be published in recent days, but we do have the data for the whole of the Spanish state. I wanted to bring, precisely, a part of the results of this study to make an image, a photograph as close as possible to reality and contextualize precisely that, that democratization, that increasingly common use of new technologies and how it also modified the way in which we relate also to the sexuality of people. I insist that there is no corresponding data for Galicia, but if we have the data broken down by gender and school course of the state set. There are two aspects in which I wanted to stop. One is active and passive sexting; that is, we share images of erotic or sexual content, or we receive them; and another is how it is affecting and giving rise to crimes -- because they sound -- like gambling or sexting, but from an already delicious point of view. They ask the people who participate, the students who participate in this study: Have you been sent erotic or sexual messages? It says 42 % of the sample is yes; 40 % in the case of women and 43 % in the case of men. Did they send you photos or videos of yourself -- of yourself!-- of erotic or sexual character? 26.7% of men say yes; 26.6% of women say yes. He's a couple. But when they ask: Have you been sent photos or videos of other girls or boys from your erotic or sexual environment? It then falls 14 % in their case and rises to 23.6% in their case. These are the chats and groups of WhastApp, because what they're asking you and if they send you images of erotic or sexual content from other people in your neighborhood, not from yourself. Did you send erotic or sexual messages? In the case of women, 11.9 per cent says yes, and 15.4 per cent of men say yes. Have you sent pictures or videos of yourself of an erotic or sexual nature? 8 % in their case; 7% in their case. Has anyone ever pressured you to blackmail him so you could send him pictures or videos of an erotic or sexual nature? In the case of women, 16% say yes, in the case of men it goes down to 6.8%. Putting it a little bit more into words: sexting is practically equally practiced by women and men, but we see that those who suffer from extortion, pressure, blackmail or coercion are women and, in addition, numbers are greatly increased when we advance in different education courses: third and fourth of the ESO is where most of these extortions, that pressure, that blackmail or that extortion with content, images or videos of a sexual nature or erotic content are produced. It's also obvious, because it's when we start waking up also sexually. When they ask for contact with strangers, grooming is the access to websites of pornographic content by sex, again and by course: have you accepted on the networks someone you didn't know about anything? 58% in the case of women say yes; 55.9% in the case of men say yes. Have you contacted strangers via internet, chat, networks or video games? 50% in the case of women; and here it rises to almost 60% in the case of men. That's for online games and video games. They're mostly male audiences, and what they play is often online games with people directly from other countries. Have you been in person with people you've met exclusively over the Internet? 20% of women say yes; 22% of men say yes. Has any adult ever made you a sexual proposal over the Internet? And here we see the gender gap again. The vast majority of those people who suffer from pressure, blackmail, or in this case sexual propositions by unknown people, are mostly women. Have you entered erotic or pornographic content pages? We see again, but now yes to the reverse, the gender gap. In the case of men, more than half; in the case of women, the percentage falls to 20%. I mean, contact with people unknown through the network is common in both genres; however, some differences of interest due to sex are appreciated. Girls, women -- sorry, I'm translating at the moment -- girls are the object of sexual propositions by adults much more often than men, while online pornography consumption doubles in the male gender. The transit to the second stage of the ESO, to the second cycle, third and fourth, causes all risk practices to be fired, because, again, we insist, is also the time for the most sexually active awakening. This, of course, increases crimes against sexual freedom across the network and increases, in addition to, year by year and in a very special way, among minors. Again it is not an opinion, it is data from the prosecutor's report that was recently presented in this House, corresponding to the year 2020 and that it warns us that crimes against sexual freedom are increased by more than 145 % through ICTs, new information and communication technologies, and very much especially among minors. This is logical, if we think -- I insist -- that it's more and more common to relate to each other through mobile phones, apps, platforms and social networks, and that brings risks. That's a little bit of the message, too, or the reflection we've been making since BNG. It is important and we believe that it is the message that you have to leave this House today, with the approval of this law: that we need to train and inform the population of our country, of any age, but especially the younger generations, to be aware of the risks involved in this type of practice. At the moment you send a photograph or video of whatever kind it is, but even more erotic or sexual content, the other person or other person loses control over that content and what it represents. But the guilt -- if you want to see in those terms, quite morals -- is not who decides to take a picture and send it to someone who likes it more or less innocently, but the crime is committed by those who share it, spread it, threaten it, extortion and blackmail. [[Applause]] That's why, with our amendments, we wanted to introduce -- something that Mrs. Díaz was already advancing in her intervention -- in addition to the definition, that that extortion, that blackmail, that crime doesn't have to be committed more than once necessarily to be considered a form of violence against women in the digital sphere; with only one time it's enough. Finally, the People's Party in its self-amendment -- or in the amendment it introduces -- the definition already picks it up like this, it shades it up like that. And we also wanted to introduce another element in that definition that is misogynism, that doesn't have to be physical violence or psychological violence -- let's say, violence or form of violence how traditionally we could consider it -- but undervaluement, contempt, hypersexualization or cosification of women, which, in the digital and social networks, is increasingly common and is more naturalized and normalized, and is also a form of violence against women. That's what micromachisms is often considered, which are forms of violence very subtle, very naturalized, very normalized, but which are at the base of that pyramid, that iceberg that represents, or with which we traditionally represent in the movement and in the feminist thought, the violence that is practised against women. It was the subject of debate -- moreover, very interesting, from a theoretical point of view -- in the presentation itself. He didn't accept it. But we are not going to do this either, we have already said it in the Commission itself, in the debate of the Parliament's ruling. We, from BNG, are not going to cause this, but we did want to make it appear in the debate. We are pleased that we could come to a transaction, which was taken advantage of by the amendment that our group, the BNG, presented to the exhibition of reasons to incorporate precisely into that exhibition a concrete reference -- although it does not express -- in case we know our country as the 2019 Maruxaine, which were these women recorded without their consent, watering in public space, in the street, and that the images ended up hanging on websites of pornographic content. We also rejoice -- as we have already transferred to the women of Maruxaina -- of this court decision of Lugo to reopen the case so that it is investigated as a violation of the right to privacy that in the Constitutional Court's own jurisprudence goes beyond the private sphere, and therefore also covers public space. We have that right to privacy even in public space or on the street. There's no explicit and explicit mention to Maruxaine's women, I mean, but if we want to pick up their case or their experience by incorporating, therefore, also as a form of digital violence -- I insist -- in the exhibition of motives, the recording and dissemination of images taken without consent, whether in the public or private sphere, which involve humiliation or harassment for women, as well as their distribution on networks and platforms. Here I open a nuance -- to finish --. We urgently need the amendment of Spanish legislation because we have no competence -- bad that weighs us down, the Nationalist Block of Wales -- in criminal matters and in judicial matters; that is an exclusive competition of the Spanish State. And taking as an example the case of Maruxaine women in 2019, we must have the possibility of demanding the withdrawal from those platforms, websites or virtual spaces where these women's videos are installed watering at the Maruxaine party, because they cannot do so to Galician Union, but in this case, the Spanish State, if the legislation on masculine violence in the state is reformed once and for all and other forms of masculine violence are incorporated; this digital, but also because they are too late and beyond the international normative framework, which is the Istanbul Convention, in which violence against women goes beyond the scope of couple relations. That the Spanish state is saying now that from the next year onwards, it's going to account for the masculine violence exercised outside of the partner relations in the statistical field, is that in this country this is already violence more than a decade ago, in the Greek Law of 2007. They're too late, and the worst thing is that they make us slow down, bad that they weigh us down. Finally, we will support this bill. I insist, we are going to vote for it because it is necessary, because it is done, because we need to act on all the spaces where male violence is practised. And today, social networks, the Internet, digital platforms are a reality and a fact, and we believe that we are going in line to continue to act and in addition to doing so collectively and unanimously all the forces of the House. I believe that this is the best message we can deliver: that women's rights are human rights and that they are fundamental rights that the whole of Galician society is here to guarantee and to defend. And that's what it'll do that we don't go back, no matter what the correlation of forces is at any time. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u9	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine that they have a son or a daughter between 10 and 12 years of age, and that when they go to work, they leave her alone at home. That your apartment has neither door nor door to enter nor exit, that in your building none of the floors have door and that all the doors of the building are open. That on the floor on the side lives a pederast, in the living room upstairs lives a rapist, in the living room downstairs lives a swindler and a stalker of minors, that the stairway is a porno cinema set, that at the bottom of the building there is a betting house where they give free showers to boys and girls... well, that's what happens when we put in the hands of our children and our daughters a mobile with Internet access and often without parental control. They can go in and out on those floors without any control of all these kinds of people, offering services and offering false promises to the boys and girls who live in it. It takes a lot of education, a lot of sensitization, but also parents and mothers have the obligation to put controls and doors to all this, because often physically we're very careful to have closed the door of the house, that they don't come in, to accompany the boy or girl to school, that she doesn't go alone in the street, but then we leave them alone and alone in a parallel world where there's no kind of control. And the reports of what we've just talked about -- of what I'm going to talk about too -- give us the truth is that it's very worrying for all teenagers and all the women and men between those ages, especially the most dangerous ones, between 12 and 16. The other day I read an interview in a media of an expert who was warning about the dangers -- he called it -- "this technological spray." The screens have become a technological umbrella for our children. The little ones, the little ones, have silicone or rubber poppy, but from a certain age, we have children and girls entertained with screens, with mobiles, with tablets -- television is almost the least commonly used --... so we are faced with new challenges that put us in the face of new technologies. And, as I said, this whole reality is reflected in recent sociological reports and studies. I was talking the other day -- and we recently had the Galician senior prosecutor here -- about the data from the Galician Public Prosecutor's Office Memory. It's heartbreaking because -- by giving them data -- research on cybersexual crimes increased by 145 % in 2020, even above the scenes committed on the Internet, which are at 135 % -- which is not a little --. But every day what we read in the press is scams that if the bank sends a message, they send a phishing link... but we don't read so much about cybersexual sex to boys and girls. And the data from the Memory even say that they are facing crimes against sexual integrity committed against children under 16 years of age. They're the ones that got the most up. And, therefore, the conclusion is that sex crimes are increased through new technologies and in addition, the increase of these sexual offences is against children under 16. But there is a question that is not regulated in state law and which is fundamental, that digital violence is considered gender-based violence, a crime. The present crimes, according to the Public Prosecutor's Memory, have decreased, but technology and across the network have experienced impressive growth. And we can think that if this were regulated, that growth and that memory data would have varied. If at least all the technologies were included in the crimes of gender-based violence, they would certainly increase rather than decrease. I'm also going to refer, Mrs. Rodil, to that recent report by Unicef, because it really gives us some data that has to lead us to an important reflection. I don't want to repeat all that you've given me, I'm going to talk about something else: 9.8% of teenagers have received sexual proposals from adults on the network. When I was talking about that open-door building, where they could go in and out in our house, this actually shows that adults are making sexual proposals to minors in the network. We're talking about a study of 50,000 students from 265 schools of all kinds, public, private and concerted. This report is very accurate because it gives us a glimpse of the reality that we are living in. And this also shows that in the Galician Parliament we're working well, we're picking up the real problems on the streets. We're talking about ESO students between the ages of 12 and 16. 42 percent of the participants -- as Mrs. Rodil said -- they've ever received messages of erotic-sexual content. And about those questions that Mrs. Rodil was talking about, I'm going to put other questions on the table: what do the boys and girls looking for on the networks say? They seek to fight loneliness, seek positive relationships, have fun and communicate with their friends. Today the fun and the relationships between the same are more in the networks than in the streets. However, there's also a dark face, 24.7% admit to having become afraid on social networks; anguish, 19.7%; and concern, 27.9%. And it's the teenagers themselves who identify cybersex, extortion or access to inadequate content as the main risks of technology. I'm sure that those of us who have children at that age, when they have children, I'm sure they're much more controllers and protectionists with them, because they know first-hand the risks and dangers that involve the networks. So parents and mothers also have an obligation to engage in the technological education of our children and our daughters. It's not appropriate to give a mobile with two vague instructions and not to do any kind of permanent control of the uses that boys and girls make of mobile, internet and social networks, because if we can escape a lot of things and maybe, when we get there, we're late. And the administration and the public authorities also have an obligation to put in place sufficient mechanisms to prevent and combat such conduct. The State Covenant against Gender Violence had already concluded, in the subcommittee's report, with a series of proposals for action. Number 91 said: "...to improve the classification of crimes in the digital field." Four years have passed since the approval of the State Covenant and it has not yet been legislated in this sense. And despite the fact that every day we see these conducts grow, the Government of Spain has done nothing to push a legislative change; and this is not said by the People's Party, says the General Council of the Judiciary. At the Observatory against Domestic Violence of Genre, the General Council of the Judiciary, at its last meeting to monitor and evaluate the State Covenant agreements on gender violence, its president, Mrs. Ángeles Carmona, called for changes in the Criminal Code -- and specifically said -- "to characterize cybercrime more specifically in the face of the number of complaints by women who suffer violence in the digital sphere and in many cases find a legal vacuum and cannot be sanctioned." Carmona talked about the difficulty of fitting these complaints into a criminal type. Complaints of violence of control, threats, psychological violence through mobiles and other digital devices were brought to trial, and it considered social networks to be culture hot for the control of the victim. We, as Mrs Rodil said, in Galicia have no competence to amend the Criminal Code or to amend the Organic Law of Gender Violence. But today we take a step forward: we include a new concept, that of digital violence. I particularly appreciate the work of the parliamentary groups to reach agreements and consensus. When we present this bill, we do it with a triple objective: to describe the delicious behaviors increasingly at rise, to raise awareness of the dangers of these practices and to put in place public policies and prevention measures to prevent them from occurring. Well, we believe that the first original text that we presented and recorded was enriched with the work done in the Phoenicia with the amendments tabled by the groups, because they were positive amendments in order to provide and improve the legislative text. We, through a self-amendment, as the speakers who preceded me in the use of the word, have also improved the definition of digital violence, for it is not only digital violence that is practised through new technologies, but also every act committed, instigated or aggravated. We include as a means of committing the crime the geolocation services, and we improve the wording, including "discrimination, humiliation, blackmail, harassment, harassment or exercising domination, control or intrusion without consent in the victim's privacy." It's a fundamental thing. And that's what we were talking about before that violence was sustained in time, but with the amendment we've done now it was to say that a single conduct is constituted of digital violence. Why? Because there's no need for such behaviors to be digital violence. The simple resend or sending of a video with this character is already digital violence, because in the end, it turns, right, and everyone who resends that video does it once, but in the end, the video reaches thousands of people. We also all agreed on the need to include in the text a legislative reference to prevent a future event as deplorable as it happened at the Maruxaine party. There's been a consensus since the zero minute. When it came to the Ponencia, we looked for the best fit, and, taking advantage of an amendment by the Nationalist Block of Galicia to the explanatory statement, we agreed on a transactional text that Mrs. Rodil has already read, in which we said that "...also the recording and dissemination of images taken without consent, in the public or private sphere, which are supposed to be a humiliation or harassment of women." This shouldn't have to put it in a law already, because I think the judge -- and they're going to allow me -- had sufficient legal mechanisms and tools to continue the investigation, and so saw it by the Provincial Court, and that's why he reopened the case. We are very happy that this had been done because we believe that those eighty-one women who were harassed because their images of intimate content were uploaded to a pornographic website wouldn't have to have gone through that situation, and we think it's important that you investigate. We know it's hard to find the culprits, but at least open the investigation and do a minimal educational activity. Today we have taken an important step in the fight against gender violence in the legislative field in our autonomous community. I insist, we hope that the Government of Spain will take note and that there will be sufficient legal changes to be made so that this is specified in the Criminal Code. The amendments that keep the groups refer to misoxynia. Well, we -- if you spoke in the P.O. -- it's not that we don't want to include it, but for now we see that there's no legal concept like that. We consider it important, perhaps through that state legislation, which is included, and we will agree there, but for the moment, as a legal concept, we understand that it is not the most appropriate one. We are grateful for the sensitivity shown by all parliamentary groups when they showed admission to this initiative, but also the generous work of the Phoenician Parliament. I also want to thank you for your will of consensus, for the constructive debate, with only one end, which was to put society, women, in front of any party interest. With the absolute majority of our group it would be enough for this text to go forward, without the support of the opposition, but we didn't comply. From the People's Parliamentary Group we hope that we will be an example of unity from this Parliament against gender-based violence. It's the best campaign we can do this November 25th. It's the greatest commitment we can assume: to send a message of unity, that against gender violence, zero tolerance, and that we all end in the same direction, without ideological fissures or partisans, that you have, but when we have a common goal, we are able to put them aside. In the plenary today, several initiatives against gender-based violence will be debated and I think the best tribute to the victims is that we all have this spirit of consensus and to put women, victims, but also non-victims before any partisan issue. We can put our big sand to get them never to be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now begin the round of parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. First of all, on behalf of the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists, Mrs Díaz Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u11	Thank you, President. I believe that we have already spoken here in this debate about the need for these changes to be made also in the Government of the State, the need for relevant policy changes. I've already said that we also consider from the PSdeg that it has to be like this. Otherwise, it wouldn't make much sense either. And, in addition, so did we make it manifest. But I repeat again that we are aware that they are working on this issue; we hope that with the greatest of the celebrities, and we will also take care of it. As for the amendments, there was only one left, our amendment remains, which we have kept, as we have already said, because we do consider it necessary that term "mysoxynia" should appear. It's true that there may be no legal capacity, but the reality is that in some other autonomic parliament there is this concept when it comes to digital violence, that's why we considered it achievable. And, of course, because of consistency, we will also support that of the BNG, which goes in exactly the same direction. And in this latter turn we'd like to focus again on two questions. One, in which we want to insist on asking for the greatest attention to work on preventing and sensitizing this kind of violence with actions directed at women and men; also to men, who are always the great forgetfulness of awareness campaigns and another in which they focus especially on adolescence. I also had the data from Unicef's last report, and I'm not going to have an impact on the same thing as it was said, but it does, in fact, indicate the need for, as I say, to focus on young people, adolescents. Also Galician senior prosecutor the other day warned of the worrisome increase in this type of violence in networks. And I think that was also evident in today's three speeches here from the three parliamentary groups. It's very important above all to work, as we're saying, in those young people, because, besides, if we don't work with her, we'll continue to perpetuate this violence of digital genre. We also want, lastly, to re-indicate, as I say, in the few studies, because it's true that it's quite recent, there's still not too many studies, and we also want to point out that socially we are much more prepared, much more prepared to prevent the impact of analogous violence, because for those violences we already know our survival codes or the codes we have to behave with, but we still have no clear instructions to detect or protect ourselves from those digital violences. So, please, let's all put our efforts right now, legislating or not legislating, and making awareness-raising campaigns to try to shorten this, because, really, the situation is really worrisome. Nothing else on our side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u12	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u13	I'm very, very briefly, because I think the positions are very clear and I think we talked in detail about the reflections that each of us had. In the end, it is true that the majority presence on the network in a normal, usual and daily manner corresponds to younger generations, but not only. I dare say that the practical whole, if not all the people we're here, we're counting on some social network, regardless of our age, and I'm convinced that there are people over 45 who are very active here, with a total Facebook presence, for example. But it's true that we don't use them or don't use them, depending on age, in the same way. I wanted to finish what I wanted to break a spear -- that we also had a lot of discussion in the Phoenicia -- not only with this bill or with this bill, but also with others in the field of macho violence, in favor of women, especially the newest ones in this country, because we never had such a trained, informed and so conscious generation as the younger generation and the newer women in this country, never! And that's also a collective, social achievement, of this law of macho violence in 2007, for example. [[Applause]] Never a generation like today's youngest in Galicia had such a great degree of feminist consciousness, and that was seen -- if they were -- in the huge and tumultuous demonstrations of the last 8th of March or 25th of November of the last few years before the vault. And that's also a reflection of things moving forward. Society is advancing, and today we have a generation that detects all forms of macho violence long before. That's why statistics also increase. First, because they're done. My mother's generation probably never asked or talked openly about macho violence, at home or much less at school. Today we do this, this is an important part of the debate, the political agenda, the work of all the groups on a daily basis. I've already had, and have, more training, more information -- I'm convinced -- and more consciousness than my mother's generation. And those who come from behind are incredible; it's incredible the degree of formation they have, the degree of consciousness. And of course, they continue to reproduce situations of violence, harassment, oppression and discrimination, because we are not going to end with millennial oppression, which is held on a system of social domination which permeates and passes through absolutely everything, from night to morning. But I am convinced that with youth and, above all, with the most young women in this country, we will be able to take enormous steps as giants to build a society that, at the bottom of it, being more feminist, is more just and more democratic for the whole population. Nothing else. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u14	I mean, in the amendments that are being maintained by the groups, we have already said that there is basically a concept that has led us to almost an important part of the debate, which is the subject of misogynism. The position we had with misoxinia was that it's not a legal concept defined in any norm, nor state nor autonomic, although it appears in a legislative text -- I believe -- in the Catalan community. We hope that the state will legislate because it is essential and it is urgent that this amendment be made to the Criminal Code and the Organic Law against Gender Violence. It's fundamental, because without it you can't fight 100 percent. Because today we approve a timely change of what is a definition of a form of gender-based violence in a norm that simply raises purely administrative issues and the impulse of public policies, training, education, prevention, but in no case can we sanction or condemn such conduct through the law of Greece. So I think that's the right place to include this new legal concept, if that's how it is decided in the Congress of Deputies in the debate, and we, once that happens, can give the debate here again, because surely our living standard can update it with lots of other issues. I also want to add to that spear that broke Mrs. Rodil for our young people. In fact, the younger women in our country are very aware of what their rights are, of claiming their rights, and of which is the pink line that doesn't allow it to happen. But I also say that, in fact, the more education there is, the more training there is, we also detect many toxic relationships among teenagers, behaviors I don't know if you're bullying, but if you control these girls, controls by their mobile passwords couples, social media passwords, and that's something we have to keep working on day by day, and why we keep fighting for these women to be free of these controls that they don't take us anywhere. Finally, thanking once again the work of the groups, the work of the Commission's rapporteurs and the generosity that the three rapporteurs had on behalf of our groups to achieve this consensus which I believe is historic today in Galicia, because I believe that we are the first autonomous community to include in the law digital violence as a form of gender violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u16	At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. Joint vote on Amendment No 1, maintained by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, and number 1, maintained by the G.P. of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, to the Ditame drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, of the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u17	We are now voting on the Commission's opinion on the amendments which have been incorporated, which are those of the committee itself. Ditame's vote, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, of the Proposal for a Law Reform Act 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. Consequently, the reform of Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 was approved, which was written for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence. [[Applause]] Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u18	I am now reading an institutional statement that brings me to the groups on the occasion of World Children's Day in 2021, and that says: "The Galician Parliament joined Unicef in the celebration of World Children's Day, a day to remember that we still have challenges to achieve in our autonomous community so that children's rights are a reality. Children, children and adolescents today face multiple challenges, such as poverty, climate crisis, inequalities, the consequences of cowardice-19, etc.; challenges that compromise their level of well-being today, but also their opportunities for development and survival in the future. We advocate a vision in which the most local and global go hand in hand in search of solutions. Therefore, we undertake to promote measures aimed at: 1a. To put at the heart of our political action the rights of children, children and adolescents with long-term strategies and resources to achieve tangible results, taking into account childhood and adolescence in all decisions, both in response to crises and in recovering within the framework of the principles governing the Convention on the Rights of Children. 2a. Investing in mental health. Covid-19 has contributed to the worrying increase in mental health disorders among children, children and adolescents, so we will focus on the Greek Government in the need to give more attention to this problem by allocating the necessary resources especially for the most vulnerable. 3a. Ensure safe, responsible and critical use of technology. Following the pandemic and the arrival of distance education, an increase in digital skills of children, children and adolescents, but also of risks, was appreciated. We therefore commit ourselves to focusing on policies for equitable access to technological resources, to improve digital skills, to promote the development of a protective environment in the digital field and to raise awareness of all actors involved in promoting safe and responsible use. 4a. Advance in the real and permanent listening of children, children and adolescents. Although progress is being made in the participation of children and adolescents, we will focus on strengthening the mechanisms of real, active and permanent listening, also in the parliamentary field. 5a. Addressing the climate crisis. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing mankind. We are committed to promoting the reduction of CO2 emissions, increasing investment in climate change adaptation, promoting active and sustainable mobility, promoting environmental education and ensuring green recovery of the coward-19. Finally, we want to congratulate Unicef this year on his 75th anniversary, on his tireless work to reach the most vulnerable children and children, on the objective that every child and child enjoy their childhood and have a fair opportunity. We will continue on the path that marks us the 2030 Agenda, focusing more on placing our childhood at the heart of the response to these challenges. Santiago de Compostela, November 23, 2021." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u19	Now we move on to the second point of the agenda, of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Employment and Equality Adviser, on his own request, to take stock of the measures and actions taken in the field of employment and equality during the past year and the forecasts for the year 2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u20	To make this appearance more substantial, she has, first of all, the word of the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Ms. Maria Jesús Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u21	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. In fact, I am here to take stock of the main measures and the main actions we are taking in this year 2021 by the Employment and Equality Council and also to take account of the main plans, the main programmes that are in the Council's strategy for the next year 2022. I'm going to start with the measures and actions relating to the promotion of equality and the fight against gender-based violence because it's, I think, the most transcendent and sensitive issues that we carry out or in which we have competence and responsibility in this council. This week, besides, in November, I think it has a special role to play, of course, in the fight against gender-based violence. Looking back, during the pandemic period, the fight against gender violence was made more intense than ever, and so it had to be: the Plan of attention was strengthened to victims of gender violence; to ensure their safety, as you know, they operated normally, with the condition of essential services, all telephone, psychological care services or the point of coordination of protection orders and, of course, the attention provided by the CIS, information centres to women. But some specific services were also strengthened and expanded, as was the case with the victim's transfer service, which was provided according to the Galician Taxi Federation, the reception centres were also expanded and the Social Rental Bonus expanded, to assume 100 percent of the victim's rent. All these proceedings led to the recording of the following data in the first half of the year 2021, of which I took account. There were 3,083 complaints, which meant an increase of 197 over the same period of the previous year, and 580 protection measures, which are 93 less than in 2020. Economic aid was granted to 573 women, 341 of whom were beneficiaries of monthly periodic aid, 219 beneficiaries of single payment, 12 beneficiaries in the year of compensation and compensation to a severely injured woman. In 2021 it is necessary to point out that we have set up, in addition, two new programmes: a programme to promote the recruitment of women victims of gender-based violence by non-profit entities -- 33 women who were hired through this programme -- and, even so, support to facilitate geographic mobility for the labour reasons of women who are victims of gender-based violence, of whom a woman would benefit from this second programme. However, unfortunately, this year we have a deadly victim of gender-based violence in our community; a number that, of course, represents, in addition to a lost life, many other people who are crushed by this suffering. So, of course, we have to keep working, and we have to do it tirelessly until that number is the zero number. We are intensifying our actions and developing a third edition of the Women's Information Centre Staff Training Plan over the past quarter of this year, and we are planning to promote training for local inter-agency coordination tables against gender violence. We are trying to train professionals, technical staff and inform and raise awareness of all citizens with specific actions also focused on Thursdays, with collaboration agreements with journalists, through their association and professional school, with specific actions for women in rural areas, for women with disabilities, with new actions focused on specific focussing on gender-based violence, because we know that is necessary, such as vicarous violence, sexual violence or digital violence, of which we have just talked about right now. We have, of course, issues, as I say, that they are not new to this parliament, because on many occasions we have reached agreements and consensus to give answers to urgent demands in this area; as I say, this approval that has just been made of this reform in the field of digital violence, but also vicar violence, which has already been supported by this House on June 13th, to legally recognize the transcendence of this type of violence, and thus giving it legal status to a question which the Junta has already been recognizing since the year 2015 as it was in fact making participants in the services and the aids that the victims of gender-based violence victims of vicar violence. In 2022, we will target the fight against gender-based violence 18 million of our budget, 22% more increase than the one destined for the previous year. This will, of course, enable us to maintain all these existing services and services and resources, but also to expand and strengthen them. We have to insist very much -- and so we are going to do it -- on promoting the recruitment and labour integration of the victims of gender violence, because we understand that only economic independence can actually get the victim out of that situation. Of course, we will maintain and strengthen all direct aid, single payment aid, monthly periodic aid and also economic compensation, which are key to victims when they try to get out of this situation, and we will continue with all collaborations with municipalities, with third sector entities, with universities. We're going to develop two new resources or two new services: some are the four centers of attention at twenty-four hours for victims of sexual assault, one in each province, within the framework of funds transferred by the Ministry of Equality, and we're going to work also to expand the Phoenix project, which is an intervention project with minors who demonstrate violent behaviour throughout the territory of the Autonomous Community. It is also worth noting that we are going to draw up for this year the first plan against trafficking and sexual exploitation, which is expected to incorporate new measures for the fight against this scourge in our Community. All these actions, past actions, and also the future actions we are planning to perform, are proof -- I think -- that not only of the commitment of this council, but also of all the departments of the Galician Union, of the whole of the Greek Government, but also -- and most importantly -- are also proof of the consensus and political cohesion that exists in this matter, of territorial cohesion and social cohesion around a matter that I consider to be a priority for all of us as society. In this issue of equality, I would also like to talk about the reform that we are going to make of the Self-Equality Act; we have been working on this reform text for months, and we will present it in the House in the near future, in order to modernise the regulation that we currently have in Galicia, adapting ourselves to the current socio-laboral context, anticipating ourselves in those areas in which we understand that we must, as I say, affect, as it is, of course, the issue of labour equality. We intend, with this new regulation, to achieve the greatest possible consensus in Galicia and to move on to regular questions and to identify issues such as multiple discrimination, expand measures to fight against the glass ceiling and improve the working well-being of women. This is a reform that will seek to promote women's economic independence and their professional development, while it implies the necessary involvement of the German business fabric in this achievement. With regard to the promotion of equality, we will continue to develop all the usual actions and programmes that we have with the help of the municipalities, local entities and also the federations and the ANPA confederations. But if I would like to highlight two issues in this area of promoting equality: one is the Emega programme -- already known -- for supporting entrepreneurship and self-employment. By giving data of the year 2021, it struck historical records in applications, there were 1,500 applications, and with the credit available this year, which were just over 3 million euros, we were able to meet 234 new business projects and create or maintain 512 women's jobs. This program, because of the success we are seeing that it has year after year, for the year 2022 it will have a new increase; it is EUR 4.2 million, with which we duplicate the budget in which it is going to be legislated. Secondly, within the promotion of equality, I would also like to make a separate part of conciliation. Within conciliation we have the ordinary line to compensate for the reduction in the daytime and encourage co-responsibility. This year 2021 we're going to get this help to 2,860 people who would benefit. But within the support for conciliation, we have incorporated, in addition to the aid to the local authorities of Greece for promoting reconciliation, which are maintained, the aid given from the Directorate-General for Labour Relations to promote labour agreements in the field of flexibility, teleworking promotion and the acquisition of computer equipment that promote this reconciliation. They also help the reconciliation given to self-employed people; they had 26 beneficiaries last year. And finally, this year we will carry out, with the funds transferred by the Ministry of Equality, the Corresponsible Plan. In total, there are support for conciliation worth EUR 16 million for the year 2022. In the area of labour relations, in 2021, I think we must emphasize that we focus mainly on equal opportunities and non-discrimination within the labour force. And we did it with training actions created ex novo this year 2021. We set up employment equality courses for the first time in the Autonomous Community, courses ranging from a very small of eight hours to another thirty-five hours, which aim to facilitate the basic knowledge of the process of negotiating equality plans within their organisations. We have also launched a ten-hour theoretical-practical course on prevention and treatment of sexual harassment and on the basis of sex at work and another on the application of pay records in companies, on distance work, on co-responsibility and conciliation. It's 3,000 people this year 2021 who have obtained the certificate of use linked to training on equal work offered free of charge by the board. Galicia is the first and only autonomous community in all Spain that offers this type of certificate and that also offers this specific training in labour equality in a virtual way. This is possible because, due to the success of these courses, we have already set up a virtual campus of labour equality, a digital space -- as I say -- of teleformation, aimed at informing, training, raising awareness and providing resources to the Greek society in general, and of course, the business fabric in the issue of equality between men and women in companies. Through this campus in 2022, a total of ten thematic workshops will be scheduled, three cross-sectional workshops, six complementary workshops and one course -- which I think is the most important of all I'm pointing out -- specialized in the field of pay audit and job valuation, which has one hundred and four hours of training. Information will be provided on such new issues as the prevention of gender-based violence in equality plans, the application of the principle of equality in digital disconnection and telework protocols, equal treatment in public employment and social protection, in addition to other ones specific to the negotiation of equality plans, such as selection and recruitment processes in businesses, professional promotion, the corresponding exercise of personal and family and labour rights in relation to equality plans. In addition, of course, in 2022 we will continue with the grants, which we have been carrying out for three years, both social agents and businessmen to create these technical offices that help in the field of equal work and advise companies and trade unions in this area, and also subsidies to companies -- as I said earlier -- both to carry out conciliation actions, promoting these teleworking agreements, these time flexibility agreements, as well as to support them in the development and implementation of equality plans. In the plan for the year 2022 it is also planned to carry out the Welsh strategy of social and business responsibility 2022-2024, continuing with the previous strategy that is now about to end. Within the scope of this Directorate General for Labour Relations, I would also like to highlight a very ambitious project that is being carried out with social agents, which is a three-year project, the Empreganav project, which started this year 2021, and is still two years of progress. The project focuses on the inclusion of unemployed people in the auxiliary shipbuilding industry in Galicia, through a design of an integrated plan of measures that is adapted to these affected workers. It has eighty-two vocational retraining training activities, which may be within or outside the sector itself and which also aims to promote self-employment and the relocation of these workers. The project -- as it said -- started this year, we took 455 people and has an budget for the year 2022 of 1.8 million euros. In 2022 we intend to launch the work insertion program and also the development of training actions to improve the entrepreneurship of these people and also the inclusion of work. Finally, we also set aside EUR 2022 3 million to continue to support the workers who still remain in ERTE in Galicia, currently 8,431, and, if so, workers who may be affected by possible ERE. A year ago we had 176,574 people unemployed and today we have 154.045. Galicia has recovered lost jobs during the pandemic and has fewer unemployed people even two years ago. Today we have 27,262 unemployed people less than a year ago, which is a fall of more than 15%, we have an increase in membership in 20,633 people and also an increase in indefinite and full-time recruitment of more than 17%. A total of 156,607 workers and workers came out of ERTE, which means 94.89% of the total that we registered in April 2020. But of course we must continue to face the future with absolute caution, we must continue to work to help the 90,388 women and the 19,027 boys who are unemployed, and within these 76,219 long-term unemployed. We need to continue to work for priority groups that require specific support from governments and administrations in order to integrate into the labour market. Since just over a year ago in this council, we have been working on this main goal of consolidating employment in Galicia, maintaining, creating employment in Galicia, in a framework of equal opportunities. That's why this year 2022 to the Galician Union has put forward expansion budgets for this Employment and Equality Council, a budget that grows by 32 million euros, by 9.2%, i.e. more than 2 percentage points above average, with 380 million euros, which is the largest story in the historical series for employment and equality. But if I would like to point out that in terms of legislation, i.e., between 2021 and 2022, the increase in self-employment and equality shares is EUR 130 million, i.e. 52% growth in budgets. Over the year 2021 to sustain employment at the most difficult times of the pandemic, especially in those sectors and economic activities that were most affected by the coward-19, we articulate and execute -- as you know -- four rescue plans. The first two plans we put together in just nine months, allocated 180 million euros and answered 80,000 applications, 180 million euros that were entered into the accounts of the autonomous, autonomous and small self-employed companies of the Autonomous Community at that time and made available to the autonomous Community's own funds. Similarly, we are drawing forward the other two rescue plans with state funds, which I now say -- reflect the following data: in the third plan, 5,912 registered applications, 80 per cent of these applications are paid; and in the fourth plan, of which the application period is still open until December 31st, 5,428 applications have so far been submitted. All of this has been processed and carried out through the Directorate-General for Employment, Self-employment and Social Economy, but this general direction has not ceased, of course, to carry out its ordinary functions through actions aimed at creating jobs and consolidating existing jobs. All in all, with all the help that while these rescue plans processed the general address, by the end of October we created 2,781 jobs and benefited 1,861 Greek companies. For the year 2022 for the areas of employment, self-employment and social economy, 147 million euros were allocated; it is 45.3 million euros more than the previous year, i.e., an increase of more than 44%. In this area, I would like to refer primarily to two questions. On the one hand, a new project, which are the rural entrepreneurship poles, and on the other hand, the employment plans that we have designed for the especially vulnerable groups as regards employment, which are women and young people and people with disabilities at risk of social exclusion. Entrepreneurship poles is an ambitious project that aims to divide Galicia into twelve areas, into twelve socio-economic districts, and to analyse in each of these areas the sectors that can give jobs, the sectors that do not yet have or need to be undertaken in these regions, so that what we are going to identify the emerging opportunities in each of the districts and encourage entrepreneurship in any of their formulas, be it as autonomous well with social economy formulas; and all this while facilitating the transfer of technology and knowledge through collaboration with universities and with a program, of course, of aid for putting into operation and maintaining and consolidating these small businesses in their origins. As I say, it's a sweet entrepreneurship chicken. We will begin in 2022 with the implementation of the first four, one in each province, and also from a focal point, the Centre for Guidance, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, which will be located here in the capital of Galicia. The investment for the year 2022 for these five chickens amounts to more than 12 million euros. As I said, I wanted to highlight, on the one hand, this project. Secondly, these specific plans that we have designed for priority groups that encounter greater difficulties and that encounter greater obstacles in finding jobs, and that is therefore where governments and governments have to focus our efforts. On the one hand, the Plan employs women, with full support for access to employment but also for the maintenance and consolidation and professional promotion of women's collective. This plan has five specific programs unique to new creation. On the one hand, the digital capacity enhancement program for women living in rural areas. This plan has EUR 10.4 million and is aimed at strengthening the digital skills and vocational qualifications of rural women. We're counting on us to benefit 20,000 women in the year 2022. On the other hand, integrated employment programmes exclusively for women. We are going to allocate EUR 4.8 million and we expect 1,100 women to benefit. Thirdly, training units in companies with female underrepresentation. We are going to spend EUR 2 million to finance 100% of the training provided to workers and to workers, while at the same time supporting companies in contracts. We plan on reaching 1,200 women. Fourthly, the Women's 22 programme with EUR 6 million to facilitate and support the incorporation of 1,000 women into the labour market over the year 2022, with an incentive of EUR 6,000 per contract. And fifthly, the generational release program Women's Company, 1 million euros. Its purpose is to promote the replacement of employees in companies of working people close to women's retirement. Reimbursement contracts made at the end of this programme will be encouraged by an aid of EUR 7,500 for each contract made. In this Women's Work Plan, in addition to these five new programs, we have of course included the three programs already known, which are the Executive Programme, which promote women's leadership; the Galicia Employment Programme, on a specific line for women, which is 5 million euros; and the Omega programme, which I've already commented on. With which we make available, through these specific programmes, in the Women's Employment Plan for 2022, 34.3 million euros for female employment. Secondly, the Youth Employment Plan has three specific newly created programs. First, the Talent 30 programme is 22 million euros to reach -- we count -- to 1,620 boys and girls, subsidising both contracts in practice and training and learning contracts in companies. The research programme, for the generation of youth employment in the field of research, technology and innovation, EUR 13 million, with support for the financing of the labour costs of contracts on account of any type of contract with a minimum duration of at least twelve months and a maximum of twenty-four for the development and execution of research and innovation initiatives. A third programme, first professional experience in public administrations, EUR 11.2 million, which aims to promote the recruitment of young people for the acquisition of professional experience in entities of the autonomous public sector in Galicia. There will be 386 contracts in practice, divided into three categories: one category of green employment, in which more than 100 contracts are intended; one of digital competences, with 70 contracts; and another category of employment in general, more than 200 contracts. These programs join the youth employment workshops, every year, and they'll have 3.5 million euros for next year. And also the specific €2 million line in Galicia uses; this year we're counting on reaching 350 young people. In total, the Youth Employment Plan will have 51.8 million euros for the year 2022. And thirdly -- as I said -- the third collective that we believe we have to strongly support from the Government, because it's a particularly vulnerable collective, it's related to people with disabilities and also to people with social exclusion. In the year 2022 we have two specific new creation programmes for support for the training and integration of these people with more difficulty in accessing the labour market. A new program to improve employability, in collaboration with the main bodies of autonomous representation of the collective, which allows the establishment of an advanced brokerage service for people with disabilities; EUR 5.5 million to finance this brokerage service. And then a new job start-up program, endowed with 2.3 million euros, in collaboration with the most representative entity in the area of the fight against poverty in Galicia, seeking comprehensive training to achieve employment for people who perceive Risga; we intend to benefit from this program more than 2,700 people. We will, of course, continue with the pilot programme, which has already begun last year, of dual training for people with intellectual disabilities, where employment and training alternate. We have increased 3.8% of the support for job creation and maintenance in special employment centres. And also 25% help creating and maintaining jobs in job integration companies. Thus, we add EUR 38.4 million to this disability and social exclusion plan for the year 2022. Finally, I would not like to end this part of the employment attendance without making a specific mention of both the social economy and the autonomy and the autonomy of Galicia and the social economy. Because we're seeing -- and so on -- all agencies and institutions say it -- that the social economy is turning into an enterprise formula that is much more resilient -- and it was during the crisis -- that any other formula of economy, and in addition, it's a specially proctive formula in Galicia, it's very linked to the environment, it's absolutely environmentally respectful and it puts collective interests in front of individual interests. And for this reason we believe from the Government that we have to continue to support it. In 2021 we supported 281 social economy entities and 458 jobs in this sector, and in 2022 we grew to 35 million euros, more than 6% in the social economy. Highlight two new programs for the year ahead of the social economy. One, which is the Es-Next program, which arises in order to define an identity seal of the social economy in Galicia. And a second program, which is the Es-Factory program; this is a program of entrepreneurship accelerators linked to the social economy, which will guide and be accompanied by people promoting business projects under these formulas; and we intend to contribute to the creation of 75 startups of the social economy and support 300 people. Secondly -- as I said -- I would like to mention our Autonomous Community collective. It is a collective which, together with its micro-enterprises, comprises almost all of the business fabric in the Autonomous Community, 97 %. It's business projects that support the economy of the Greek families, it's the worst that's been going through economically and labor through the whole pandemic crisis. But still, in Galicia, I think they showed the courage of the autonomous, because if we compare the October data and the current situation with that of a year ago, we find a favorable evolution of the autonomous in Galicia. There are 1,259 new highs, with a rate of growth of 0.61%; and in addition this rate of growth is a trend that is being accused for the seventh consecutive month in Galicia. This is why, of course, in 2022, we must continue to maintain the full range of usual support that is presented, in addition, demanded as troops. And in this 2021 we support, in addition to rescue plans of course, 3,700 autonomous and autonomous in their professional projects. And I'd just like to point out that by the year 2022 we're going to start the basis for the definition of the new Self-employment Strategy in Galicia. And we will do so, of course, as we do all the programmes, through dialogue with the three autonomous associations that are present in the Autonomous Community and in the Bureau of the Autonomous Employment of Galicia. And also highlight a new project for self-employed people for the year 2022, which is the Digital Enterprise project. This project aims to provide support in addressing technological changes, computer changes, digital transformation, in companies in our Autonomous Community, in small businesses. What we're going to do is support the monthly cost of a person working in the company itself, who will have to train and train the staff of that company, the self-employed and the people who have hired, so that digital transformation is a continuous process within the company itself. Well, over the course of this year -- but I think already with a view to next year -- it's showing as absolutely necessary a firm bet for adapting to new work environments, new ways of working, emerging technologies. This demands a new formative proposal, a new proposal of qualifications that responds to the existing demand for transformation that is experiencing the labour market. Already this year, 2021, and with this goal in the head, we set up the virtual campus; it's a service available to all training institutions for employment, both public and private. We have managed to lead this digital training in Galicia in Spain, and at the end of this year we expect a total of 15,000 students and students who participate in the Galician Employment Training Plan and who benefit from this digital platform. By the year 2022 the figure is expected to double and close to 33,000 people would benefit from this training offer. In 2022, I think that the biggest bet in the area of training and placement, because we have increased its budget by 53%; it is EUR 184.4 million for the following actions, in short. On the one hand, the Public Service of Employment of the Autonomous Community, with a renewal of the service, on the one hand, of its own employment offices in equipment and improved works and in the acquisition of new infrastructure. This year we have already acquired the location for the transfer of Ourense's office to the Ponte district and are now planning the acquisition of the premises of the employment offices of Monforte and Vigo-Calvario. As for works of improvement, the work of Vigo-Navia's employment workshop has been completed this year and the works of Ponteareas, Cangas, The Coruña-Monelos, Cee, Verín and Lugo are being processed and started. As I say, a renewal of the employment service also with the implementation of the new information management software on the supply and demand for employment in our Community, achieving greater efficiency of the resources available in the Autonomous Community, and for this purpose in the budget of 2022, 5.7 million euros. And also in the improvement in the training of employees of the Public Employment Service in Galicia, we have a share of 348,600 euros for the first quarter of the year 2022 to carry out these training actions. One of the key points of the reform of training that we are going to carry out from next year is in the Welsh employment skills agenda, which began its march on November 9th. In this way, of course, we want to improve the training of workers and workers in Greece, but also to capture and retain talent and improve the competitiveness of companies and, therefore, to improve efficiency in the link between demand and the supply of jobs. For this we have articulated nine specific work tables per sector, which I would like to point out. One, relative to construction. Another, blue economy, which includes fishing, naval, marine renewable energies and sea-related mechanical metal. Green economy, which includes the forest sector, terrestrial food production and land renewable energy. Silver economy, automotive and aeronautical, including linked mechanical metal. Logistics, which includes retail textile sectors, marine distribution and terrestrial distribution. Tourism, hospitality and commerce. Digital economy, which includes the ICT and audiovisual sectors, along with the transformers into pemes. And another one for vulnerable groups, which focuses on specific needs in the area of disability and poverty. At these tables and with collaborative work between the public sector, the private sector, through all representative entities, of course social dialogue as well as autonomous ones, social economy entities, disability entities, poverty entities, clusters, etc., what we want is to design the new content and training modules that are most accurate in these first nine sectors, which we consider to be strategic, to give an effective response to the labour market and to give an effective response ultimately to the workers and workers and to the training they need and, of course, also to the companies that need these workers. This work, I think, will also be used in the study of emerging technologies that we're in charge of at the end of last year. The final results will be next December, but we already have certain results that I can move forward here. The study -- I remind you -- was about analyzing the new technologies in fifteen strategic sectors of our Community to give a proper response to the transformation that must take place in certain jobs, in certain professional profiles that are linked to these new technologies. This report analyzed those fifteen strategic sectors and, of course, part of the basis of the necessary and progressive incorporation of all technological profiles and digital training across the board. But in particular, it recognises a series of new competences linked to three areas: blockchain, big date and increased reality. It also identifies the process of automation and robotization with a lower demand for labour in a number of subsectors of the economy, but it also represents an opportunity to generate jobs linked to this phenomenon with certain qualifications and vocational training, posts which are of course more demanding but which will also return to a more quality job. Well, in the year 2021, 16500 pupils and students participated in the German Employment Training Plan and, of course, in 2022, we continued with a new employment plan, 24.7% more budget than in the previous year. We will continue with specific actions for employed and unemployed workers, with the recognition of professional skills acquired through professional experience and with training units in firms engaged in recruitment. I stress here that we are going to spend more than 8 million euros on scholarships and aid for unemployed workers who participate in training for employment. In conclusion, we understand equality. I believe that in the Government and, of course, in counseling as a cross-sectional objective and as an inter-sectional objective. This is a premise that is demonstrated by how we have managed, how we have worked on equality in recent years, of course in the year 2021, and also by the new strategic actions that we are presenting here. It's about anticipating the needs and, above all, I think that we should get involved with society, talk about, dialogue with business and trade unions and with self-employed people in order to achieve success with the measures and programmes that we make available to citizenship by introducing -- as I say -- measures to promote equal work, women's entrepreneurship, to support conciliation, actions to combat multiple discrimination or programmes to promote the incorporation of women victims of gender-based violence into the labour market. We understand that our commitment is to make that Galicia more equal and, of course, also to work on one of the pillars of this society which is employment, with more employment and, above all, to focus on those groups, on those people who themselves have more difficulty in entering the labour market, and of course also seeking a better job. Only by better training our workers will we get companies to be more competitive, that workers have better jobs and, of course, we will be able to support self-employed and small businesses so that they can continue to grow within the Autonomous Community, boosting a business fabric that positions as competitive and a job that enjoys a professional qualification that is adapted to the present labour market but also with guarantees for the future. Nothing else, I'm at your disposal and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u22	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta speaks of Parliamentary Group of Socialists in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u23	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you, gentlemen. Counsellor, welcome. Almost a year ago he appeared in this chamber, at his own request, and today we welcome him to do it again. And, in the matter of equality, we continue to say the same thing: we need new measures, greater silence and assessments. Continuing the blind doesn't take us anywhere. So we won't fight the structural inequality of our country, a battle we're not winning. You say the four provincial centers will be set up against sexual violence, carefully twenty-four hours. But we haven't covered our territory with women's information centres yet. They have been incorporating time into their discourses concepts such as rationalizing schedules or sharing responsibilities. I think it's just co-responsibility. And in the budgets for the year 2022, they brutally reduce the program to that end, being one of the departures of all the budgets that suffer one of the biggest cuts. In other words, in the century in which we must focus all our efforts on co-responsibility, the first step of the coveted equality, you cut that game without any wonder. [[Applause]] It's intolerable. Of course, they have also not carried out the updating of the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, which is mandated by this same parliament, which is now over. I'm hanging around in this matter, Counselor. Finally, we wanted not to give you the opportunity to offer a reasonable explanation of what happened to the Emega program's anniversary gala, for which Junta de Galicia has used the contact data but not the women who have benefited from help in other years, but those who have applied for a summons this year, who have not yet been published in spite of being resolved. Is it right for you to play with the expectations of more than 1,500 women, who felt pressured by calls from a private event organization company, in which I would suggest that the aid would be known in the same act, as was finally the case? How were you able to use this data near you to opt for a public help? I think it's a real scandal, denounced by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the comrade who brings this matter of equality. [[Applause]] And he said we were celebrating the attendance on the subject also talking about employment, because after the summer unemployment has unleashed the pandemic as the main problem of the Greeks and Greeks according to the Survey, in which unemployment, with 41.1%, considers it to be the most relevant concern of the Greeks and the Greeks as being questioned by which are the problems of Galicia at the moment. And we have another data to highlight. The second concern, with 26.3 %, is the quality of employment in Galicia, i.e. the fear that contracts continue to be precarious, and the population sector most concerned about this condition of employment is people between 30 and 44 years old, because many of them, as you know, have recently joined the labour market. The sector that is most worried about the quality of employment is self-employed, circumstances arising from the fact that in Galicia there are precarious jobs that force the employee to become self-employed. That is why we welcome the adoption by the Council of Ministers of 16 November of a strategic plan of the Labour and Social Security Inspection with a view to modernising the inspection and strengthening action against fraud in the temporary recruitment of false self-employed people into digital platforms; also creating the Anti-Discrimination Office and expanding the use of anti-fraud tools in areas such as effective equality between men and women. On that occasion, as in the first meeting of budgets, we heard your hand and we kept doing it, although, on the other hand, you are discarding -- rather the group that supports the Government -- Mr. Balsairo, every initiative that this parliamentary group presents, such as, for example, an application for a employment plan in relation to young people and girls, because only 30% of the youth has a job and 56.8% have a temporary contract in Galicia. Looks like today announces a series of programs for the next 2022. We'll be careful about your development. I can't leave neither, Counselor, to recall the statements that attributed youth unemployment to the lack of vocation between Thursdays. But will it not be due to the lack of dynamism of the Greek labour market and the precarious nature of it, Your Honor, and the working conditions that they offer? They also voted against a necessary shock plan for long-term unemployed both in training and in active employment policies. I haven't heard any plans in this type today, as reported in the second appearance. Also about the necessary and urgent strengthening of the Galician SEPE, which has announced it two years, but is not carried out, in order to become a true intermediary and point of support for companies to apply for employees fit for recruitment needs. We were also talking about Galicia -- we talked about it at the last plenary session, in a question posed to this parliamentary group -- it has been suffering from a shortage of labour. This worrying reality is caused by the important gap between the education system of Greek vocational training and business reality, but also by reasons attributable to its counseling and management. First of all, because of a lack of diagnosis; counsellor today lacks a necessary tool to study the labour market and its needs, basically because he failed what the Bipartite had when Mr. Feijóo arrived at the Government. Secondly, because of the lack of active policies but which are geared towards reversing the shortcomings of our labour market, we welcome the challenge that is being tackled at this stage in 2022 by setting up these new active policy routes, because it seems that we are now no longer doing Igape's functions, which was coming to focus on employment. And, above all, also the failure of budget execution, which is already a classic in his counseling. EUR 1,540 million on unimpeded employment from 2009 to 2020. It's incomprehensible that we had to wait this year to listen to you and Feijóo on November 9 that created the famous Agenda of skills for employment, which we agree with in its creation, but it comes a little late, because it sets the time horizon for next spring. Remember that in 2020 he announced a reinforcement of the Galician Employment Service; it is not yet implemented and now announces an agenda of capacities to match the supply with demand and announces that the next spring will be those needs studied. Let's hope so. But I can't help but express a disappointment to this parliamentary group about the manipulation they've done during this year of unemployment data. The board decided unilaterally not to comply with the agreement to automatically renew demands for employment, as did the rest of the autonomous communities. He'll say they could do it digitally. You know a lot of these people didn't access this system and they went to the offices, and yes, they got 88,000 people down there for this reason, but not for placement. And yet Feijóo went out selling Galician labor miracle. The country, I said, in this headline: official data -- which were contrasted, obviously -- contradicted the idea of Galician labor miracle claiming Feijóo. He did so knowing about this devious use of data, which, in my view, is a despicable act. But what Feijóo didn't say is that the ERTE protected 197,000 jobs and avoided a wage collapse in Galicia; the state government doesn't say these things; 197,000 jobs prevent a pay collapse in Galicia. [[Applause]] Galicia needs a new work framework that reverses the abuse of timelessness and involuntary restlessness, while a more balanced collective bargaining framework is recovered but also necessary, and the board of directors commits a profound reform of the active employment policy system, bearing in mind that the current one works incompletely, not placing the unemployed and unemployed at the heart of their concerns. In fact, the budgets presented by the Galician Employment Board, as also indicated by trade unions, are small in relation to the Union's own funds, the own funds provided, because employment should be one of the keys to recovery. Speaking of what happens between vigorous credits and expenditure made, the degree of budget execution we see in 2020 something similar to the year 2019: they leave without running a number that they like very much, 135,058,000 euros, when in 2019 it was 135,024,000 euros. Percentage run...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u25	...was in -- yes, finished, president -- 2020 of 66.8 % and in 2019 of five points less. The employment fund ball continues to be unspent and continues to grow. We hope that the programs announced today will be run by counseling, for the sake of all those who have stopped and stopped. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u27	Thank you, President. Good day to everyone again. Good morning, Counselor. We're going to focus these ten minutes of intervention that we have from BNG on matters around the area of equality that you're taking, especially at the gates of November 25, of the International Day for the Elimination of Machist Violence. And I would start with two previous questions. One, the announcement you made of reforming and updating the Equality Act of 2004. We rejoice -- and I say it with all honesty, with all honesty -- and we put ourselves everywhere already working in the BNG Parliamentary Group to make approaches and contributions. And I also tell you that we are happy because in the past legislation the BNG proposed in this parliament, in this plenary, on several occasions, that spaces for dialogue and work tables with social groups, with feminist organizations, to address the necessary updating and reform of that law, which has been in force in our country for more than a decade, which we need to update. The People's Party has repeatedly voted against, so let's welcome you, let's welcome this reform that you announce. And in addition to that greeting, I beg you: I would ask them, in addition to bringing it, to process it and approve it, to buy it. Because you, besides government, are an employer. The Galician Union has a huge number of workers and public workers. They've been obliged for fourteen years to have an equality plan, which they haven't approved, which they haven't even approved. So, I ask you: let's update that Law of Equality, but we comply with the legislation, and start by setting an example for the Government itself -- I insist -- not only on the public policies that it develops, but also on its own obligations as an employer, in this case a huge amount of population in our country. [[Applause]] That's a question. And the other one: we're processing the general budgets of the Galician Union for the year 2022. We insist -- we are in the process of processing partial amendments -- and we also need to increase the budget for exclusive and specific programmes of struggle and prevention against violence. We continue to argue that it is necessary to invest one, one, of every 100 euros, which we believe is not so much for one of the greatest social and political challenges and problems we have in today's society, one of every 100 euros, for that fight and prevention against violence. And I trust here with the three issues that we wanted to focus on from the BNG, because we need economic, human and material resources if we want to deal with these macho violence. And the first thing, the first question is that administrations, governments -- you too -- can't fall into the routine, monotony or inertia that can lead us to this struggle, which is a fundamental career -- I really like athleticism -- is a very deep career and requires high level of vision and all the economic effort we can. In that sense, we call for and, in addition, at this plenary session, the BNG advocates an initiative to strengthen and expand the care services for women in situations of violence against men, specifically a network, which we understand is fundamental, is also a key network for the prevention, struggle and support, counselling and support of women in situations of violence against men, which are the CIS. At present, we have a regulation that limits them in the budget that puts the Galician Union for its maintenance and its creation in 45,000 euros. That's for us to get an idea, that's who they are. A single municipality, a CISG a municipality. It goes up to 120,000 if it's in common. But the vast majority of the CIS that exist today and operate in Galicia are a single municipality. We have that peak of 45,000 euros, and that almost means a full-time worker and another part-time, no more. It doesn't even take into account the volume of population it serves, no specific ratios are fixed; so much we have to talk about a Vigo CIS, which can care for more than a thousand women in a year, like we talk about a women's information center because of intermediate villages or rural municipalities. What we do here today, in the proposal that will later defend my comrade Iria Carreira, from the BNG, is to go further, take a step further on that network, expand it, strengthen it, and hear them hand in hand to reform, firstly, the decree that regulates it since 2016, which we increase the approach of the Galician Union to equip the staff with that network of CIM, so that they can count on new professional profiles, for example technical or administrative techniques, because it has a huge bureaucratic burden on management, for example, or the justification of the subsidy that supports it in the face of the funding of the Galician Union, and also so that other professional profiles can be incorporated more dynamizing, so that you can also devote an important part of the work being carried out by the CIS staff to training, activities, prevention of violence itself. Because the data we have from the most recently published report, which is the Fegamp report, what tells us is that the bulk of the funding that women's information centres have for women is for the maintenance of the service itself, both to pay for staff payrolls and expenses that can have the centre itself, and that only 5% of the budget of women's information centres is devoted to these prevention and training activities, which are essential when we talk about fighting against violence. Enlargement, increase, therefore, the economic approach, increase staff, establish ratios, so that they can be strengthened, especially those who take on a greater workload, well because they care for a larger potential population -- I'm talking openly about the seven cities, which is where the bulk of this country's population is concentrated -- but also so that they can attend to those who are now taking up the absence of these centers in many municipalities, especially the eastern fringe of our country, the Mountain of Lugo fundamentally, so that they can count on more professionals to take on that workload, not being immunized. Because I set the example of the city of Lugo. The city of Lugo is assuming as the whole Mountain: the River of Piquin, Negueira de Muñiz, Becerreá, Baralla, La Fonsgrada, Meira, Pol, etc. We don't have from Ribadeo to the boat of Valdeorras, that whole eastern strip of the country, it doesn't even have to the city of Lugo-Vilalba an information center for women. We therefore also need to guarantee the presence of these centres, of this network in all the municipalities, or give maximum coverage to the whole territory, because it is, among other matters, a legal obligation, as established by Law 11/2007, to fight against violence against the masculine population. Maybe they're tempted to tell us that, well, they're putting more money on the municipalities. Well, you really can't, among other things, by an economic asphyxiation imposed by the legislation that put the People's Party on the table, known as the Montor law. We also need to take that legislation and allow for greater recruitment capacity by local authorities. Women's Information Center, but also local coordination tables. You were talking about the development of a training programme for agents who form or integrate these local coordination tables. At the BNG we asked for a report to the General Secretariat of Equality recently to assess the degree of implementation and the degree of operation, as these local coordination tables were working, in which we seek to sit down all the agents involved in the fight against violence, the field of health, the police, the educational field, the judicial area, the local administration itself. And what the report itself says -- I insist -- of the Galician board is that in the tables there are, which are not many -- I know 59 after forming the Barriers board, just like there's some more -- there's, first, a great lack of coordination like one of the main instances of its operation. Secondly, there is a lack of human resources that prevents its proper functioning -- for me here we go back to the previous one: it is the CIS that should also be motorized through its technical staff of this kind of institutional coordination table -- and also a lack of training. Thirdly, then, for us to welcome be that training plan but we need the necessary resources. And to finish, I don't have much more time left, the proposals that we make to them, in addition to these two issues, is to change a little the approach linked to what I've just said, a little the approach from what we've been working on in public administrations or the public administrations are working on in the fight against violence: going from a rather reactive position, which we're going to move based on the knowledge we're going to have of cases, to have a much more active attitude in detecting and preventing violence against macho. We need to get ahead of the complaints, because what the statistics tell us is that only 20% of the cases are reported. In other words, eight out of every ten cases of male violence we don't know them through police or judicial complaints. So we need to strengthen and expand that network of public services, so that the Administration can accompany, detect, advise, support these women before they decide to submit, if they finally decide, that complaint. And there he plays a decisive role in public health. All or all of us so far -- it's not so much now -- we need to regain the presence, we all go through our doctor or head doctor. We can detect in the consultations in primary care, recovering the presence, cases that are not visible today of male violence. And there's a need for professionals, time of care at the health centre, and specific training for health professionals. And then, finally -- with this finished, president -- another change in focus. If there are women victims, if there's violence, if there's discrimination, it's because there's people who cheat, there's people who discriminate, and there's a need to talk to that part of the population that men are. We also need to change the approach and comply with what the Law of Macho Violence has said in this country for over a decade, in article 6.4: specific campaigns directed at men, so that you can reflect on what is the role that must play in a society free of violence, in a just and democratic society. [[Applause]] Today the Block also presents its campaign on the occasion of the 25th N with this orientation, asking men directly, "What are you going to do as a man?" Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Balseiro Orol has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u29	Thank you very much, President. Madam Counsellor, Mrs Lorenzana, on behalf of the majority group of the House, of the People's Group, I would like to point out that I have requested this appearance before the plenary of Parliament, the request itself, to take stock of the actions, of the initiatives of the German Government in one of the areas of greatest importance always, but especially in the current context, such as employment and equality. But, as a matter of precedent, before entering the bottom of the matter, I want to take advantage of your presence to ask you to transfer our congratulations and our recognition to the work done last year by the entire team of the board, and very special to the employees and public employees of the employment services and the care services to women in situations of vulnerability. They were at the foot of the cannon, ensuring the proper functioning of these public services, many in presence, other guards, answering phones or working in their offices. I'm thinking about the employment offices, about the staff funding the Women's Information Centres, who wrote the guides with the recommendations of the Galego Institute of Occupational Health and Safety. All of them were, together with the health personnel, the residential staff, the home aid personnel or emergency workers, essential workers, and I think that in this parliament there is no mention of the role they played during the toughest months of the pandemic. They deserve, in every intervention, the recognition of a society, the Galician society, grateful for its commitment and its work. Thanks to everyone and to everyone. [[Applause]] Counselor, no one can deny that you and your team have a very important role to do in the future, and you've had it in the past few months. His correctness, especially in these times of uncertainty in the sphere of work, is in the interests of all the Greeks. And here we find the first difference with opposition groups, which usually apply that maxim that the worse it goes to Galicia, the better it goes to them. And so, Your Honor, allow me to give you, from humility, advice: don't take too much heed of the proposals that the opposition groups bring to him... Don't worry, don't move forward, wait. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it is not because we have something against consensus, but rather the opposite; we are always open, as you are sure, to jointly promote any constructive initiative that can move opposition groups into employment or equality. Don't you see how they advance? And in this very full and other earlier we had good examples. This chamber has unanimously promoted the reform of the law to introduce new concepts that serve to expand the protective action alongside battered women and their families. I'm talking about digital violence or the recent reform of vicar violence. That is why consensus is possible, especially when there are reasonable proposals to reach that consensus. When it comes to work, the opposition, I would say that many times, well, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, I think you are reeling between the catastrophy in Galicia and everything is wrong, or directly proposing proposals that are supposed to go back to the advances in the labour market that have been taking place in recent years. I say catastropheism because, of course, there are many people in Galicia who still want to work today and cannot do it. Any figure we're talking about will always be too much when they don't find work. But they're also -- and so we're faced with facts -- the main concern of the Galician government, Galician government, as well as those who come to jeopardize their job. But they will agree with me that Galicia today is in much better position than the rest of Spain. And they'll also agree with me that this shouldn't happen. In this positive differential for Galicia there are many people, with names and surnames, who would probably be unemployed if we in Galicia applied the policies that the left forces promote in other autonomous communities or since the Government of Spain. I mean, the Socialist Party -- you know, the whole story says it -- is a danger to industry; we are suffering it in our own flesh, suffering the men and women of Alcoa, the Bridges, the Vestas, the Ences, and we could continue. You see as the wrong political decisions of the Government of Sánchez are taking you to a situation at this time inexhaustible. And the Socialist Party used to say before it was a danger to industry and now I say it's a danger to employment. And the Galego Nationalist Block are their necessary accomplices, who rule in many municipalities, who rule in three of the four deputies, and the Greek nationalists, moreover, have given in exchange for nothing, in exchange for nothing, Signorias of the Galego Nationalist Block, the investment vote to Mr. Sánchez in Madrid. So, Counsellor, what we ask of you from the majority group is that you avoid applying these evil policies of the central government in Galicia. Because there's the data. You, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, can twist the figures, but you can't manipulate reality. The last survey of active population, that is, the third quarter of the year 2021, shows that Galicia's activity rate grew almost half a point over the one year ago. It increases the active population of our Community. Galicia currently has 1,239,200 active people, 10,100 more in the same period last year. This increase in activity in Galicia is reflected in all labour market indicators. Among young people under the age of 25 has also increased the rate of activity in the past year. As for the current evolution of long-term unemployed, Galicia reflects a decrease of 1,100 people, which means a drop in the long-term unemployed population of 1,89 %. This contrasts with what happened in Spain's set, where there is a remarkable increase in long-term unemployed people, in particular 302,100 more people, which is 22.60% more. Finally, in Galicia, the increase in active population and the rate of activity has been accompanied by an increase in occupation and a decrease in unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. As far as precariousness is concerned -- we feared it primarily because of temporality -- and bias, well, as far as temporality is concerned, according to the last EPA, in the third quarter of 2021, undefined wages rise with respect to last year's wages, in particular, amount to 3,800 people. In addition, there's an indefinite job going up in Galicia. As far as female employment is concerned, the number of unemployed women in Greece has declined in the last year in particular by 10,600 unemployed less, i.e. 14% less. This positive development is more intense than that in Spain as a whole: Galicia, 13.97%; Spain, 7.95%. Galicia has a lower share of unemployed: Galicia: 51.54 %; Spain: 52.95 %. The rate of unemployed women is 11%, they are more than 5 points of difference than the national rate: Galicia, 11.06%; Spain, 16.36%. And for all this, Counsellor, Galicia does not deserve to go back and not apply those recipes of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, which, for example, try to convince us that labour reform is essential. It is worrying, Counsellor, that the Government of Sánchez wants to repeal a reform that was key to Spain's exit from the last crisis and that has created three million jobs. In Galicia, since its entry into force, unemployment has fallen to 120,630 people. And we, from the majority group, from the People's Group, think that we should maintain those bases on which legislation is based...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u31	...of 2012, of flexibility, of equalization to European legislation. I conclude, Mr President, I conclude, Counsellor. Continue to apply correctly policies that are proving that they work, focus on taking measures such as the Employment Plans, which has just explained to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u33	...that create quality jobs and help improve the competitiveness of the productive tissue. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u35	Thank you very much, President. I'm going to start on a subject, Mrs. Rodríguez, which I would like to clarify, what you have said, because, in addition, I really think you don't have the data, because it's none of yours what you just pointed out here, which is about the action of the Emega programme; in addition, I publicly say that I was very surprised by the statement of the Socialist Party. Nothing you said is so, it's not even fifty women who were invited to the Emega program, nor were they told in the act that they were beneficiaries, nor did it -- of course -- depend on granting a grant; it's a very serious charge, and I think I have to clarify correctly. The resolution, I say the last resolution, not of course the minutes of the evaluation committee, which is preceded by either the motion for a resolution, but the decision to grant aid, which also has electronic signature, is dated November 4th, and the act was November 19th. The only thing that was missing -- it's true -- is the publication in the help's CEO, which was given on November 19th. So what you're implying is that there are a number of public officials, who are responsible for the valuation commission and the ones themselves who make the motion for a resolution and the concession resolution, who are somehow depending on what they sign from those calls that are made by a company. All that was done is to invite the concessionaires, who were 215, of this year's grant, and who went out, precisely, on the day of the celebration of the twenty-five anniversary, if they also wanted to join the act, because they were already excited. As I say, the resolution was signed, and signed digitally. So there's no possibility of falsifying, it's not that if you accommodate the firm, there's a digital firm and, of course, it's at your disposal and at your disposal if you want to request the file. So, I say this because I really believe that if you have to be misinformed, because it's none of your own to make an accusation that I think you have this relevance to myself and to the officials who work there. What was more or less right to invite this year's emes? For I don't know, I thought it was okay, they invited the emes of the last twenty-five years and the emes of this year, I had no more questions than this, it was 215, which are the 215 projects that came out benefited this year, 9,500 women, and none of the applicants who were not concessionaires were called. With regard to conciliation, of course, it is true that we remember that 0.5, but we have increased EUR 10 million in conciliation and total EUR 16 million in conciliation. So, if it's true that there's a program of 3 and I peak millions of euros and it goes down to 0.5. But if you're saying that when it's all the opposite, when I think this government and this council is very much betting on labour equality in its broadest sense, about the well-being of organizations both at the legislative level than we're going to do from the point of view of aid. Conciliation is not only that order that actually encourages -- and as Mrs. Rodil well said -- co-responsibility and that promotes reconciliation, when it's the man that stays at home, but that they're a lot more than I think we're doing. So, sum up that the Government of Galicia is not betting on conciliation because there's a program that if you had to be reduced because it's funds that we didn't have any more -- it's so clear --, 0.5, when we raised 10 million in a total of 16 million euros, so, man, it doesn't seem right. Let's see, the information centers to the woman. Both -- both Mrs. Rodil and Mrs. Rodríguez -- coincide that we haven't covered the whole territory. Well, one thing needs to be clarified. Mrs. Rodríguez, you said that we put those centers of integral care into operation for victims of sexual violence when... well, I can't turn those funds into fate. I think I've already said they were operating with funds from the Ministry of Equality. And I think I've already said it, too, on the occasion of exposing the budgets. Surely if I had not so marked the objectives of the budgets I receive both from the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Equality, the policies that I would carry out would not be exactly those. But the position of the central government right now, the government of the nation, is to tell us exactly the autonomous communities to which we have to allocate the funds. So, of course, I -- if you ask me -- would prefer to continue growing in the information center network to the woman, in the center network that we have in the Autonomous Community, with that money, but I can't, because I'm required to create a specific center for this purpose, which, of course, is going to start up and I think it's necessary. But probably, given the peculiarity of each autonomous community, it would be desirable for the ministry to allow us to grow in those equality policies by adapting to what we already have, to the services we already have. And I'm linked here, Mrs. Rodil -- and I'm picking up the glove -- with the issues you mention, because they're logical issues and that, of course, we have to study, which are linked, of course, also to the budget. The budget has to be allocated in the best way possible. I don't agree that they say we don't invest enough, taking into account the budgets of the Board of Equality. You speak of that utopia -- let's say -- of that investment of a euro per cent; I think, in the socio-economic situation we have right now, the budgets of equality in Galicia's board are very powerful budgets. You think about the year 2021 we grew by 14% and about the year 2020 we grew by 20%. It is EUR 31.4 million only in the secretariat. For the first time this year, I am allocating employment funds, funds from the Directorate-General for Labour Relations, EUR 2 million, to employment equality. With which, I agree with you? Sure. All the euro that is invested in equality, every euro that is invested in combating gender-based violence, is a well-invested euro. Of course, the proposal you're making needs to analyze it -- it's very reasonable -- : to increase professional profiles and also to take account of the number of clients in each information center. It's not the same as a woman's information center in a big city as a woman's information center in a small rural town. With regard to training jobs, I really like to say that we are training the workers and the workers of the CIM, and not with the budget that appears as a transfer to the CIM. So, in addition to that budget for the CIM -- which, in fact, goes mainly to the payrolls of workers and workers -- if we're making plans for training the CIMs. So that's what I think we're on the line that you're pointing out to us. Mrs. Rodríguez, about the strategic plan for the Labour Inspectorate, you were talking about not praising approval by the Council of Ministers. Of course, if I praise, and publicly, the Labour Inspectorate, I never had the opportunity to speak of this, but the Labour Inspectorate is a shared competition between the ministry, in the case of Galicia, and us. And I think it's fantastic that plan to fight against the fraudulent autonomouss and all the increase that's being made in the Labour Inspectorate. I'm not suspected of not congratulating myself on this. It seems that I said at some point or spoke of lack of vocation on Thursdays, but it's that I was referring exactly to the same thing that you said here, which is a shortage of labor. Because, in fact -- this I don't think I say it, the whole business sector -- there are certain jobs in which there is currently demand from companies and yet there is no supply within the workforce. What I was saying -- that maybe I didn't explain myself or wasn't very accurate my expression -- is that we need young people to have vocations exactly where there is employment. And of course it has a lot to do with this government, of course. We must try to provide training on these offices, on those jobs that companies are actually demanding. So here I fully agree, and perhaps the expression was not very correct. Now, I don't agree with anything he said, textually, that I've been announcing it for two years. How am I gonna spend two years announcing it if I haven't been a counselor for two years? I mean, last year I announced a profound change -- and I think I said in the medium or long term -- of the entire Public Employment Service. This is not done in a modification that is made from today to tomorrow, it is not a command of help, it is a modification of the entire computer system, with all these procedures that are spoken of by artificial intelligence and big data. We've been working with Amtega all year long to develop the nail of technical prescriptions. I'm telling you that we can even bid you as an advance of spending and that's why that credit reserve of 5.6 million euros for next year. But reform includes this, of course it includes the entire digital classroom -- which is already in operation -- and includes the Capacity Agenda. And he says the Capacitance Agenda that we now announce it to the president and me and that we're late for this. The European Agenda was adopted in July 2020. I think there's only another European region, in addition to Galicia, which has set up its Capabilities Agenda. He is sent to the European Employment Commissioner and congratulated us on being the Director-General himself one of the first regions in Europe to set up the Capability Agenda. So, I really think you have to correct this. I haven't been late for the Capability Agenda, and I haven't been announcing a job service reform for two years. We've been working for years and peaks. There's obviously a lot of things. That we can be more effective and faster? Of course. But this is precisely what I think we have guided all the reform that needs to be done about the Employment and Training Service in Galicia, as Europe is calling for and how the market is currently demanding. Those first results that were said -- I think prudently and reasonably -- will come in mid-year, because they're nine tables -- as you came from -- work, and they have to analyze; maybe I didn't give enough data in the first intervention as well. To start the work, we have developed a computer platform, and this is the first time that it is put in a computer system to all of the training specialties we have in the Autonomous Community. So it's 4,200 of the training specialties in Galicia, and the work of those tables is in every specialty that has to do with those sectors analyzing if it's really up-to-date. We are certainly going to take down many training specialties, we have to update the curricula of many others, and we have to ask the ministry for certificates of professionalism and other training specialties to be in agreement with each sector through its representations. So I think six months to do a decent job about this isn't such a long time. He says we need diagnostic instruments, because we're discarding the Bipartite instruments. I don't even know what the instruments of the Bipartite were now, and I'm not going to look at them, because you have to realize that from the Bipartite up to now, however good the instruments were, it's impossible for them to adapt to the current reality. If we're at a time when we're using artificial intelligence, how are we going to get the tools from the Bipartite? So, do we lack diagnostic instruments? So I think everyone we're putting on the table, from that study of emerging technologies that we've commented on to the Agenda itself and that reform of the Employment Service, are diagnostic tools that are up to the present moment and are trying to diagnose employment and economy in Galicia in some way in an appropriate way. Then, about the ERTE, we didn't say at any time that the State Government avoided the collapse of employment with the ERTE, I did say so; then, I think you have to go over it. I believe that more than once I have stated that for me the ERTE instrument and how it was organized and how it was pressed from the Ministry of Labour is an absolute success and an example of success. So one thing has nothing to do with the other. The ERTEs worked extraordinarily well and of course saved a lot of jobs, not only in Galicia but in the rest of Spain; then, little would tell me if I said the ERTEs went wrong. There was, of course, a collapse that would have any administration when it started with this caliber situation, but the ERTEs worked and worked well. The success of the ERTE will be to know how to make that transition to the jobs that are still pending. But -- I say again -- I fully recognize that the government of the state has made it right with the ERTE. About the lack of budget execution and the government's own funds for employment, which is another theme that the Socialist Party has on this subject, I think I set the example -- that I'm going to put back here -- when I explain the budgets. We have every year between authorizations and spending commitments, that is, what is phase D in accounting within the board, we have reached 80 and so many percent in employment funds year after year. Since this government arrived here, that phase D, that commitment to spending, is up to 80%. That means there's 80 percent of the funds that are or are turned into aid, because most of the funds are used for aid. It's thousands of people -- I've just found out about the beneficiaries of this aid, including self-employed, social economy entities, women, all kinds of citizens and citizens of Greece -- who have grants for millions of euros. Imagine if that 80 percent of the funds we have granted didn't pay them for years and years and years. The best evidence is that the funds are being executed is that people would say it, we would have a real social revolt if all the employment funds weren't paid. Employment funds have a single specialty, which is finalist funds, and what the state requires is the commitment of spending year after year to run them in the first half of the following year. And so it's done, and it's done normally. Galicia is not suspected of misexecution of employment funds. You can also request the data if you want it. What is more, at the sectoral conferences the funds are now divided in view of the execution of previous years. And Galicia occupies the first positions; I think it's currently the second in best execution of the funds. And the mode of financing we have in the budget allocations of jobs is derived from the employment system itself in the Spanish State. He now knows that the funds are in the State, but that the funds are the funds of the autonomous communities, among other things the training quotas, which come from the workers themselves. And the system is from the moment of the transfers conceived as part of these funds are transferred to the autonomous communities. So it's not that Galicia doesn't contribute its own funds, it's how the job finance system is conceived. We're contributing funds and the evidence is that we're growing -- as I told you -- 52% in this legislation. Since I arrived as an advisor, we have grown between employment and equality over 50%. Then he also spoke, Mrs. Rodríguez, about the manipulation of unemployment data with the agreement, which is also another theme they have, of renewing automatic demand. The automatic demand renewal agreement was made at a certain time, and was made precisely for the reason of the crash from the alarm state. So, missing the alarm state cover, that automatic demand has disappeared, which doesn't mean that the worker -- or the unemployed, in this case -- has to go to the office, but there is a digital system through the mobile with which the demand can be renewed. It's not true that we are the only autonomous community that has stopped having automatic demand. The Basque Country, of course, I have knowledge -- I can't say much -- that it has ceased in that automatic demand. And then if there's one thing. I don't want to lie, but I think it's about 80 percent of the unemployment outcomes that just by the time the automatic demand has ceased to exist. So, this shows... - Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Murmurs.]] I say 80% and maybe 78%, I don't know, but it's around that figure. Then, Mrs. Rodil, I really appreciate your words regarding the reform and updating of the Equality Law, I really take the floor. I would like nothing more, really, that that law is a law of consensus, that we can achieve the work of all groups and of the Government, and that really Galicia is present in Spain, if it presents to the world with a law that really works and a law that is really innovative and modern and contributes us to society and in this important issue as equality is. So I also take the floor in this sense. And then one last point to finish on these last themes of what you were talking about in the intervention on equality both about the specific campaigns that said there is to be addressed to men as, in general, about what we had to change a little the position that we are developing with regard to the fight against gender violence and move a little bit from the reaction to action, a little more active conduct. If it's true, and I can agree with you at many of these points. I think we're going into something on this line now. We're working on it; I've walked over it before but I stop now a little bit more. With the journalists, we're working on it. That's why we're training journalists who are collected at the official school, and we also have a partnership agreement with the Galician Journalists' Association, because we understand that much of what can be done also goes through the media and surely this other way of focusing through men. And, above all, and so I'm more concerned, on Thursdays. I think we need to learn how to get to Thursdays and raise awareness and train Thursdays. We're working with schools, with teaching materials, too. The campaigns have tried them -- I think -- to adapt to the language and the way we are and to know about Thursdays. And we're also working with doctors. There's already an action protocol in the centers and we're training primary care professionals so they know how to recognize cases of gender-based violence and also how they know not only how to recognize, but how to retrain and how to deal with these issues. We're putting the accent there. Which I think we're working on that line. I do believe that there are two fundamental elements in which we are insisting, and I hope to be right. One of course is the economic independence of women, the insertion of work, which starts with social integration and proper treatment of violence; but economic independence and labour independence are the only key, therefore, in the fight against gender violence. And the second is the awareness of all citizenship and the education of children, children and young people, and that is what we are focused on. For now, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u36	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the special round of clarifications, with the Government's duplicity. And, first of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u37	Thank you, President. Counsellor, in relation to what she was commenting on at the beginning of my intervention with the Emega programme, in no case were we talking about the responsibilities of officials, in no case; we were talking about political responsibilities for the use of data that were not yet published in the DOG; never, ever, of the responsibilities of officials. [[Applause]] And we have to insist that in the field of equality and after a pandemic we believe indecently that cut that 25% in the budget for co-responsibility, because we are already used to the government's cynicism, but our duty is to denounce it, given that the crisis of coward-19 made it clear that we were the women we suffered to a greater extent that situation, essentially because co-responsibility is still a dream and it is up to us to work for it to be a reality; you too, Counsellor. Too bad this is a new missed opportunity to implement measures that clearly aim to achieve real equality between men and women. Then they're not surprised that opposition groups don't really create their commitment to equality. [[Applause]] The promotion and achievement of co-responsibility is the first step to achieve it and we do not perceive it to be a real concern for this government, beyond the inception, yes, of actions of little silence but without continuity in time. And speaking of employment, Mr. Balsairo, I'm going to give you a specific data, because you were talking about a rather idyllic situation, even if you say we're catastrophic. We say what the sources say like the Galician Economic Forum and other forums. He said in 2009 there were in Galicia, Thursdays from 16 to 34 years old, 186,600 employees, but in 2020 only 208,300, 46,1% less than Thursday in Galicia working. I think that's a date to take into account. We were also talking about employment policies and unspent funds. We met with one year, specifically from 2013 to 2016, in which you were not, that were 417 million not executed, but that it was because the government of the state, at that time Rajoy, brought less money to Galicia; in particular, it contributed 1,342 million against the 3,061 government of Zapatero. But on average, 146,172 unemployed in 2020, Your Honor, and they did not seek to link, through active policies, that these unemployed people could have compensation, a contract, especially those who did not have unemployment benefits and had family burdens. The data say that on the average of the last four quarters, from the fourth of 2020 to the third of 2021, Galicia loses 10.5%, Mr. Balsairo, of the hours usually worked in relation to the same period of 2009, which means the equivalent of 125,000 full-time jobs. This is the true behavior of work if part-time jobs are provided, it simulates a greater number of jobs; the wealth created is always proportional to the hours worked. And the biggest eiva we found it in the primary sector. The equivalent of one in three jobs disappears, around 36,000 jobs. Compared to 33.2% loss in Galicia, the average state -- you were talking about comparisons -- it's only 2.2%, with the same conditions in one place and another. It is obvious that there are no policies in this sector that drive the Labour Council, but also that of the Rural Environment and the Fisheries Council. Industry is losing weight, unlike in other communities. The food industry goes from 9.2 % to 8%. The textile and clothing industry loses half its weight in the state; if in 2009 it was 11.2 %, in 2021 it is reduced to 5.7 %. The chemical industry goes from 3.3 % to 2.5 %, and so on. The different governments of Feijóo were very clear that they didn't care about politics, but about propaganda, like in budgets. So the conclusion is quite clear: we, advisor, want those plans that announce this year to be carried out, we want those assumptions to be executed, we want that if we create a quality job, that the scarce dynamism that we also -- as the class unions say -- is impregnate this labour market is changing, and it has a responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u39	You have that responsibility -- I'm done -- to redirect these policies to long-term unemployed, to boys and girls, and to effective equality between men and women. We welcome this reform to adapt it to new times and we will be there for the contributions to be made. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u41	Thank you, President. I appreciate the tone, Counselor, especially that more serious and respectful position than the spokesperson for the People's Party. I'm not going in there, I think we have a very important debate now that should focus our attention. Some questions about aspects that we were taking out and that went out in the debate. I don't think that devoting 1% of the budget to fighting against macho violence, to specific programs to fighting against macho violence and its prevention, is a utopia. It's a necessity. And I say it's a necessity because we're going to live on it. But literally, we're going to live on it. [[Applause]] I remember an interview with Judge Paz Filgueira, who has been working for many years in his professional career in the specific court of macho violence, who said: rights cost money. To me like that caused me a little bit of printing initially when I read the headline, but it's true. Rights don't fall from the sky, they don't give them, it's the result of a lot of struggle -- women know it well -- but above all guarantee those rights requires investments and public resources. And it seems to us that this horizon, and we will continue and fight and continue to work for it, and when we reach 1% we will continue to ask for more. I think -- this was saying at first -- it's a background career, which is going to make a lot of effort on all sides. We believe that the minimum of that 1%, of that euro per cent, is what will enable us to strengthen and expand the network of public services with which we have to work day by day to eradicate all forms of violence against men. And connected to this, I'll give you the reason for something. We agreed -- we have expressed it here many times since the BNG -- in which these state funds, many of them also linked to the Covenant against the violence of the state, which are finalists, which are enormously conditioned to where they should be directed, are the perfect example of political centralism for this country is bad. And I'm taking the example that you put in these centers of full-time care for victims or women who suffer sexual violence. Because he foresees the creation of four, because the state funds one per province, and that in Galicia means that a woman for example who had been sexually assaulted in Burela is probably going to Lugo, or a person, a woman who suffers from sexual assault or sexual abuse on the Valdeorras boat has to go to Ourense. That is to be completely out of the reality of our country, to know absolutely how we occupy the territory, how we live here in Galicia, and it's a perfect example also of how you don't look beyond M-30. That Galicia is not Madrid is a palpable reality, that if we want to spread a network of strong public services, if we want to encompass all forms of violence against women by the simple fact of being women -- and sexual violence is one more -- what we have to strengthen is the network that we already have here in the country and expand it so that it can reach all the women in our country in a close and accessible way. And it's not true that you can't reinforce the CIM because you're conditioned with those funds that come from the state. You can do it with funds from the Galician Union and you can do it with European funds. I hope -- I sincerely tell you -- that today they support the BNG proposal, that we will defend throughout the afternoon, the expansion and reinforcement of women's information centres and that we can also reach an agreement on the next dates when we deal with this proposal to amend the 2016 decree of women's information centres, to expand the professional profiles, to improve their funding, and so that we can strengthen them, especially because today we are told -- and I am sure that too -- that above all those in the urban and middle towns have a huge workload. Among other things, because you, the People's Party -- you were still not a advisor, but already part of the Government in other areas -- they changed that decree of the year 2016 to broaden their competences, for example by emptying the centers Love you, who should meet the rights and freedoms in the field of sexual orientations, of sexual freedoms, so that they also have the CIS people to take up that support, that advice to LGBT people, which we understand must be assumed by the centres Cherote, which were thought for that purpose. And, to finish, one last question about that reform of the Equality Law. I insist: we're already working, because in addition to going to the BNG election program, that change, that update. He said he expected it to be a law of consensus. We are always here, the BNG always works, but there will always be consensus when Galicia and those agreements that we can reach serve to move forward, to make this a more feminist, fairer, more equitable, more democratic country, especially with more rights, not for a collective, for half the population of this country and for the whole of humanity. For my part, nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, I feel you didn't like my speech, but it's true that when I did, I didn't think you might like it; I just fought data. I have to tell him that his today did not disappoint me either, I saw him frankly many more times more disillusioned than today, eh!, most of the time, most of the time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But yes, if I didn't quite understand it, in your first intervention, when you referred to the CIS, if you didn't understand it, because you and I are from Lugo province, with which I know Lugo province quite well, and I suppose you too, I understand that you, if I didn't understand it, said there was no CIS from Ribadeo to Lugo. Ah! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, if not, there's the CIM of Mondoñedo and there's the CIM of Vilalba, either. I'm saying it because it could be. And, Counsellor, call me Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta's attention, which I thank once again for the tone and also for the people you can discuss with, that you had told the Counselor that you wanted me to return to the policies of the Bipartite. Hey, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, to you, who is a serious person, who tells us that he is a serious person, who tells us that he doesn't say nonsense in the debate, but we can't admit it to him. You see, the unemployment registered, when the Bipartite was on, it was rising, now it's falling. Last year of the Bipartite: 50,900 unemployed, we increased by 31.9 %. The last year of the People's Party: 23,520 unemployed, we're down 13.3%. Affiliations fell with the Bipartite, and now they grow. The last year of the Bipartite: 50,800 affiliates less, it dropped by 4,7 %. The last year of the People's Party: 26,676 more affiliates, it's about 2.2%. Do you want us to go back to these policies? Do you want us to fall back into memberships of Social Security? Does the Socialist Party want us to increase unemployment again? You'll understand that we can't agree. And you talked about youth unemployment, and you also referred to me. See, the 25-year-old unemployment rate is 33.7 %, 4.7 points less than the Spanish average, which is 38.4 %. But there are eleven autonomous communities with more youth unemployment than Galicia. Canarias, Socialist Party: 52.4%; Extremadura, Socialist Party: 44.4%; Valencia, Socialist Party: 41.6%; Castilla-La Mancha, Socialist Party: 40.6%; Asturias, Socialist Party: 38.6%. What does this data say? If it's not worth Galician data, what about the data where you have government responsibility? Counsellor, you know that you count on the majority group of this chamber, and we see, moreover, very rightly that the Board has planned to promote these specific plans with comprehensive support for the access and consolidation and professional promotion of the female collective, the group of young people and the most vulnerable sectors we have in our Autonomous Community, and also to think, as you said here, in rural Galicia, because you know that Galicia would not be understood without its rural community, without our rural community. I'm talking about entrepreneurship poles in rural areas, a formula for the generation of jobs. And you explained it. The challenge is to identify new economic activities, with potential in our territory, and also new opportunities for hand training for those who already work in this field and know how to improve. It will, of course, be quite right for the Greek employment capacity agenda, which will focus on real demand training in each territory. But as important as the future is the present, and that's why I want to end up echoing a recurring demand, hundreds of people who manifested themselves last week specifically in the streets of the Navy. There's no future without industry -- they said there -- there's no future without industry. And he addressed me especially to the sides of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, and I ask them, of course, and you one of them: what do you expect to fulfill the promise? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I say, what do you expect to intervene with Alcoa? What are they waiting for to prevent the unjustified closure of Ence? Haven't you learned any lessons yet from the need to recover the thermal power plant from the bridges, which they haven't closed for so long? Will you continue to put obstacles to the wind projects in Galicia, which lead to the closure of the companies that manufacture the components, as is the case with Vestas?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u45	Will you continue to put obstacles in place? And then you go to the Marines' demonstrations and they hang on to the banners, they come here to Parliament a few hours and they want an industrialization plan for the Navy. [[Murmurs.]] The best industrialization plan for the Navy do you know what it is? Don't close Alcoa and don't close Vestas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u47	That's the best industrialization plan for the Navy. No, that's right. And you know who told them? Tell him a sailor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Employment and Equality Councillor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u50	First of all, thank Mr. Balsairo for his contributions and thank both Mrs. Rodríguez and Mrs. Rodil for the constructive tone as well as the reality that is always in the debate. Some point, Mrs. Rodríguez. In 2020-2021 he said we were not looking for solutions for the unemployed. Home!, I think the best solution we're looking for to keep the job was rescue plans and I think that we were fast and we managed fast while we expected the government of the state to arrive. It came late, and it came, as is said colloquially, late, ill and drag, with plans absolutely out of socio-economic reality since Galicia, with plans for large companies, for travel agencies, for airlines, nothing to do with the maintenance of the jobs we needed here, which was to keep the autonomous and the small jobs that autonomouss give to our community. So, if I think we were up to what the job needed in Galicia at the time of the pandemic, and if I recognize it -- let's say -- that labor administrations saved jobs thanks to ERTEs, but also thanks to these support. And this has not taken place since the Economic Vice-Presidentship of the Government of the Nation, which seems to be still trying to understand Galicia's economic and social reality and -- I honestly say it -- I think like other autonomous communities. So in this sense, I don't think the Government of the Socialist Party can say that it was up to the circumstances during the pandemic, at least with regard to micro-enterprises and self-governments; quite the opposite. As for the analysis that you do about the jobs that disappear, where less jobs are generated, reality is what you're telling it. This has a double facet -- let's say --. Galicia has recovered very well, extraordinarily well, with regard to employment and the time of cod. And that's precisely why employment has grown most was where it was most affected at the time of the pandemic, which was in the service sector and mainly in sectors such as tourism, housing and trade. So we grew up a lot in the service sector, but it's also true that the service sector has declined a lot, it has had a lot of workers in ERTE and even a lot more unemployed during the time of the pandemic. I think one of the reasons why we want to analyze by sector in the Skills Agenda is precisely for this. And I'm no longer going into more details, but I think Mr. Balsairo exposed it perfectly. The industrial case is very closely related to the transition policy that is being carried out by the Government of the State and is affecting in a particularly acute way in Galicia. But there are other sectors like primary ones that are not due to lack of policies in rural areas, but because we really need to identify which jobs we need in the primary sector, the technologies that these people need to learn, and guide the training and supply and demand in that sector. So there I agree: there are certain posts, just like offices, for example, that are very demanding and that we have to try to form and orient the population there. Finally and by synthesizing a little bit, I think there's a certain consensus that the plans that we're putting in place are women-oriented, Thursday-oriented and targeted people with disabilities, with social exclusion, is something we have to do. I believe that the work that any government has in the economic and employment area is, on the one hand, to support those who can find the most difficult to find employment, can get to a quality job, because for those who find it or find it quickly, we don't have to be there anymore. That's the reason to bet especially on these collectives, and I think we're doing it. And the second thing I think we have as government is to support those who generate wealth, those who generate economics and those who generate more jobs in the territory, and from now on these are the autonomous ones in our community and also the cooperatives, they are also those social economic entities that -- as I say -- are growing a lot in the Community and are becoming very strong. From there our role of continually supporting them, of trying to adapt them to this digital employment project too, so they can adapt to new technologies, and from there the rural entrepreneurship pole project. Because we really believe that, in order to continue to grow in Galicia, of course we have to bet on maintenance, growth in industry, and larger companies, but we also have to bet on supporting the small projects and projects that settle the population in rural areas. And for this, we have to know very well the whole socio-economic fabric, we have to know in every county the differences that it has with the side, and the possibilities of entrepreneurship. And then I do believe that the government and administrations can do a lot to favor and help citizens in that enterprise. In the issue of equality -- it's already said -- I really tell you that we can dialogue and we can bring this new Equality Law forward in Galicia with consensus and with the contributions of all of us. I insist again that I believe that we are working and investing more and more resources in the fight against gender-based violence and in the promotion of equality. But if it's true that every euro, every contribution you make here is little. We still have a problem on the table, and we have to move forward and continue until there are zero victims in our community. We're working on education -- as I said -- in awareness-raising and awareness-raising. We are working to achieve this work placement of victims and also very much in the part of labour equality, in which I would like to point out that we must be of the few autonomous communities -- if not the only one -- who has training courses on equal work; but really serious courses -- with a certificate -- that they are trying, in some way, to shut down in businesses little by little all they have to know to make the equality plan not only a legislative mandate -- that is -- but for that plan to be met and that must be executed. Because if not, it's worth forcing the company to have an equality plan if it really doesn't have people, personnel, both on the union and on the business side, who know the plans and know in some way each of the extremes they have to apply. Finally, we must really highlight the Capabilities Agenda, because I think it's a project that's not too late for anything. I think we are meeting the European agenda, and in turn, I think that if we succeed -- and this is not only the Employment Council but also the whole social and economic fabric of Galicia -- to make a pact for the capabilities in Galicia, we will be on the agenda to retrain in some way not only training, but also to improve the employment of the Greeks and to improve the competitiveness that they have and that small productive fabric in Galicia, because they will have higher professionals and professionals who are focused and who have knowledge and skills in these new technologies, in those crafts, in those aspects that are currently demanding the productive fabric. So all I can tell you is that, of course, the German Government and the Employment Council are going to continue to fight to respond and to try to anticipate the emerging needs of equality, of course, but in the working environment, and try to overcome the discrimination that the woman continues today for the only reason of being a woman. And we must also try to adapt ourselves to the uniqueness of these most vulnerable groups in terms of employment in the autonomous community and the uniqueness of the territory, to the uniqueness of rural areas in Galicia, by trying to make the requirements, procedures more flexible, and by trying to gain agility and closeness to the citizen, which the citizen can more easily understand the support, the assistance and the procedures he has at his disposal, and with a vision he hopes he will strategic in the medium and long term to ensure a stable future in Galicia as regards employment and equality. So, thank you very much for listening to me. Good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u51	Thank you very much, Counselor. Now we move on to point three of the agenda, motions. Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the policy of the Galician Union on primary health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u52	To this motion, an amendment was tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u53	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u54	Good morning. After the question made in the full past, we must continue to insist on the need to take action in the face of the situation of primary care, because the People's Party has been ignoring warnings about the situation since primary care, disregarding warnings about the need to strengthen this level of care, disregarding warnings about the need to ensure the generational change, disregarding the signs of relief on the saturation and collapse of primary care. It's twelve years of decapitalization, demotivation, professional emptiness. And the consequence is that we have primary care in the ICU, which is practically untied. And it's not alarmism, it's the reality that every day the Greeks and the Greeks and the hundreds of professionals who work in it. Of course, we see with sadness how it seems that the applause of the pandemic remained at all. We can see how primary care is very dear in the speeches of the Galician Union and very forgotten in the resources it has to set in motion to accompany these speeches. A lot of speech and very little resources, that's the reality of the People's Party's health policy with regard to primary care. For example, there are budgets, there are budgets for this year. For the next year 2022, the budget for primary care is further cut, and I don't only know that it's going to be about 25 % necessary -- and that everyone says it's enough for primary care to have the resources needed to be that real foundation of the health system -- it's going away. By 2022, two million euros less than in 2021, 47 million euros less than in 2009 -- that is, twelve years later --. And if we apply the IPC, I have to insist that we're talking at least EUR 277 million less. Because sometimes they say, "No, no, we're close, or almost at the level, of the year 2009. " But of course, what was done in 2009 with these amounts is not the same, of course, what is done in 2022. That sounds logical, doesn't it? And this poor budget situation is added to the years of none and to the absence of budgetary bet on primary care, which results in Galicia being queued in investment in primary care throughout the Spanish state, two points below the average of the Spanish state, which is already being much below. The fundamental problem is that primary attention comes out of the crisis of the 2019 cave pandemic much more weakened than it entered, and we see that the intention and all the roadmap of the People's Party goes towards returning to the old normality of secondary primary care and lack of resources. That's the roadmap: the old normality. [[Applause]] If primary care rubs -- and we have to keep insisting on it -- it sharpens the health system and, with this deterioration, it erodes the right to health protection, the right to universal, free and quality public health, which is, of course, the objective of the Nationalist Block of Wales. And in the face of the cry that demands resources, attention, and more professionals for primary care, the People's Party, instead of meeting that need, what it does is to dump itself into triggering distractions instead of turning itself into solutions. And solutions there are, alternatives there are. Today, with this motion that we present here, the BNG -- I insist again -- it brings minimum issues, but minimums feasible to launch if there is, yes, a willingness to bet on primary care. I mean, they're feasible measures, they're minimal measures, but of course, we have to start from a basic premise, which is to believe that primary care has to be at the heart of health policies. This motion presented by the BNG calls for the passing of meetings, the passing of plans, the passing of expectations, to put those actions into effect. And the first thing we demand is to normalize primary care. And why do we ask for it? Because it's still out of normal. Without being guaranteed access to health centres, there are still people who have to wait outside the health centres to be able to access them, there are still waiting lists, there are still delays of days and weeks to be treated in primary care, and there is no guarantee of the presence of care for all those who demand it in primary care. And, of course, at the BNG we continue to demand a clear way that there has to be presence care for all people who need it, no percentage, all people who need it! That must be the situation. [[Applause]] We continue to demand that telephone attention should remain for supplementary matters. You can't diagnose the distance either by telematics or by phone. Telephone and telemedicine have to stay for side issues, to renew recipes, for health reports, of dependence, or for confirmation parts, for complementary but never for diagnosis. And at this moment that presenceal attention and that presenceal diagnosis remains unsecured. What else do we demand in this motion? For the adoption and publication of the conclusions of the working committees of the Technical Council for Primary Care two years ago and which, two years later, continues to offer the conclusions of those fifteen working groups. There is no document that collects the proposals from these working groups, there are no service wallets that collect the competency map of each professional category, or there is no negotiation of the human resources management plan. That's why we also demand a human resources plan, to put agendas into operation with finalist processes and that professionals can exercise the skills they have recognised by titration, professional with ability to do so, with recognized ability to develop their competences autonomously and without guardianship. Is it possible? Yes. Do you permit the law? Yes. Why don't I know? Because there's no political will to do it. Just as we demand that new professional categories be incorporated, necessary, needed, for better attention to the population. Are there professionals enough to incorporate these categories? Yes. There are clinical psychologists, occupational therapists, speech therapists, social workers, podologists... why don't they join? Because there's no political will to do it. There's no excuse here that we don't have doctors, there's no excuse here that we don't have family doctors, there's no excuse here that we don't have pediatricians. There are professionals. Why don't I know? Because there's no such political will to want to solve the problems of primary care. That's why BNG will continue to insist on these issues, and that's why we bring him back here today on this motion. What else do we demand? Then end the policy of precariousness and exploitation in the recruitment that Sergas makes. And why would we say that? Because it turns out that Sergas, instead of planning and organizing human resources, continues with improvisation and lack of respect for the professionals he's used to. It turns out that the pandemic is coming, it realizes that there is a structural problem of lack of brutal professionals and hire 1,200 professionals at the root of this Plan of Covid Continence. That's right, 150 is for one year, and another 1,050 is only for six months, it wasn't just that they made contracts beyond this precariousness. They're making these contracts, but, uh, the pandemic and the People's Party is going to be going through this dark advance that involves a six-month contract and some for a year it turns out to you that you don't, you already think this can't go that way. It looks too much and they're back on track. It turns out that the president of the board, Feijóo, said here, in this Parliament, that they would maintain 80 % -- not 100 % anymore -- of these professionals. It has already been found that they are not sufficient but solemnly said here that they would maintain 80 % of these contracts after the end of the health emergency. And it turns out the headline has passed, it's forgotten about the engagement, and it's not even 80% -- which is insufficient, because it would take 100% -- but it's already 60%. Turns out they're just keeping 738. That means that 462 don't renew their contract even though it's still necessary to keep these professionals. It turns out that 80 percent have already fallen to 60 percent and that headline is practically nothing left. And with the rest he returns to the stages of contracts for days, of contracts for weeks, of absolute precariousness. That's the consideration the People's Party has with those professionals who have given everything to maintain public health with a minimum of quality during the pandemic. The People's Party has the spirit of calling this kind of contract "stabilization in employment". [[Applause]] So we also ask for a human resources plan to end this precarious policy. The last thing we ask is that we withdraw this new contract, that new category of family doctor who pulls out of his sleeve through budget accompaniment law, through the back door again, without negotiation, without dialogue and who can't solve anything at all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u56	... -- finished, president -- that a single person does two jobs, takes care of the health centers and, when he ends up in the health center, he goes on to make guards at the CAP. That's not going to solve any problems at all. What he believes is inequality. It's a chapuza. It's to undress a saint to wear another one. So what we're asking is that you withdraw from this accompanying law and, if anything, you have to do, at least, to negotiate it with the professionals. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u57	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have again come to debate the policy of the Union on primary care. And I have to tell you that, of course, this is a question that requires debate and understanding. In this House, in plenary session, we had the opportunity to hear on many occasions the councillor, who came here talking about primary care -- even in the last plenary session, in the interpellation we are debating this motion today --. But also in Commission 5th, in the six months since the general director of Dr. Estrella López Pardo, he came twice on his own request -- the last one was the same Thursday --. It would not be right to ignore that there is a problem with primary care, a problem that transcends our borders and that is common and we share with other communities and other countries. I'm sorry and sorry to tell you, Mrs. Prado, that you seem to understand little. And this is serious because you've been a health spokesperson for many years, and even if you've only been hearing, something would have to be left for you. He doesn't seem to listen, or he doesn't want to and he still wants to be confused. I have to say that in Galicia we face this problem that affects primary care bravely, proactively. A diagnosis was made, a broad study involving optionals from different fields, trade unions, professional schools, as well as patient associations. And, Mrs. Prado, at the ICU could be, but I assure you that the ICU will be coming out and that these changes have been implemented and have begun to be done by 2018. At this point, solutions are already being implemented for all and every one of the problems of primary care -- primary care that has been taking decades without changing its functioning while we're in a society that's changed. We have a very aging population and that in medicine demands changes because we see a lot more chronic pathology and we have to go to new models. But what they should recognize -- and they're incapable of doing it -- is the intense positive transformation that has experienced health in our community, with higher annual budgets. There was a very remarkable effort in the transformation of health service infrastructures -- in twelve years, a total of 92 health centres have been improved, with an investment up to the end, from the beginning of the Feijóo government, about 120 million euros --. There was a great effort in human resources -- we have to say that Sergas is the largest employer in all of Galicia, with between 40,000 and 45,000 employees, depending on the time of the year, and that they are, ladies and gentlemen, 6,000 employees more than when you rule --. Since 2012 more than 8,000 places have been called. This year 2021 increased the staff chapter by 154 million, 8.5% compared to last year. And, ladies and gentlemen, all this is a reality that none of you should deny, the measurable is not interpretable. If we talk about the increase of the staff in health centers between the years 2019 and 2021, as collected in the primary care plan, more than 300 squares of this care level have been created among family doctors, pediatricians, nurses, physiotherapists, social work and pharmacists. And even so, in the budgets of 2022, we include the incorporation of 109 new squares, as well as the stabilization of employment with the new continuity contracts. New professional categories created. Galicia was the first autonomous community in all Spain to create squares of nurses specialists in family and community nursing, as well as in pediatric nursing. There are currently over 150 nurses and nurses who specialize in primary health centers. In this year 2021 primary care was given to clinical psychologists and is finalizing the creation of the professional category of dietitian and nutritionist. And, look, I don't understand it, because on the one hand, they ask; on the other hand, they disagree. Yesterday we would even listen to the counsellor of Fairy, who had also previously transmitted to us the counsellor and the general director by confirming the incorporation into the Law of measures to create this new professional category of optional primary care specialist, in order to provide adequate response to the current needs of this primary care. There is an unprecedented effort that you too have been able to do when ruling in Galicia, which either did not want or did not have the will to carry it forward. And I don't want to forget what the Director General said to us last Thursday, Dr. Estrella López Pardo. He said that negotiations with trade union organizations on the Human Resources Management Plan for primary care will begin in the coming weeks. The service portfolio has improved, improved in equipment, vanguard technology, which puts the Welsh public health -- bad for them -- in the best places of Spanish health. In short, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the arguments of troublemakers that you do not fail to repeat here -- denialists of reality and negationists of the improvements experienced in the Public Health Service in Galicia --, here we have data, there are evidence, there are realities that bear witness to how much we are progressing. What is clear, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Health Council meets and works to enhance primary care until it achieves the full development of that new organizational and care model that gives a better response to the problems and needs of all Greeks and Greeks. This is unquestionable. But in addition, Galicia is pioneering in the whole of Spain and is an example for the rest of the communities for the profound transformation that is reaching primary care. And you'll understand that it's funny that what's going on is what's happening, what's getting Galicia to take itself as it shows, for example, and that it appears in application documents as good practices for the whole national health system -- and even that it's part of the implementation plan of the Ministry of State Health -- here it receives criticism from the Socialist Party and the BNG. Some of their criticisms are so absurd that they are not believed by their colleagues at the Ministry's PSOE and nationalist colleagues at the BNG in other autonomous communities. We can't be an example for the good, and you see it all in negative. This isn't unbelievable. And, said this, I don't intend to fall into self-comprehensiveness, and much less into health issues. There is always room for improvement, changes are complex and we must be aware that, precisely because of this complexity, some of these changes will not spread their effects in the short term, but others will do so by being specifically directed to improving accessibility to health centres, increasing their resolution capacity and optimizing the workflows of health professionals by ordering their work schedules. Together works. Since the Council's deadlines are being met, fulfilling what has been promised to do. But, ladies and gentlemen, have the courage to acknowledge that, each one, his own. And, look, in the best of health, the central government has a responsibility, too, and we're tired of asking for more family medicine, removing the restorative rate, and creating emergency medicine. You approved in Santiago, but from Madrid they refuse. Since the Health Council, the Ministry of Health has been sent to the Ministry of Health at the request of 64 new medical MIR squares to move from 142 to 206. But the final decision is not Galician, it's the Government of Spain. Junta's willing to pay those salaries. The central government only has to authorize training. And despite that, what do we get? The silence by answer. In Galicia one hundred percent of the markets that the state allows us to. Do you want to be useful and help the board to provide more health care? Well, I've stopped vetoing what is unanimously approved in this House since Moncloa. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a replacement amendment, so you will see that there is a possibility of agreeing with you at many points. We think it's important to reach agreements and it's important to add. And if you want to reach a consensus on health, you have the will to do so, because I already tell you that we are willing to vote favourably on most of the points they propose and that they reflect literally in our amendment -- with some nuance, Mrs Prado, because you know that we agree to put teleconsultations --. Mrs. Prado, what we can't agree with is to limit telephone or telematic consultations because you know that when you call a health center, the doctor and the patient are the ones who decide whether to go or not you need to go, whether you need a prescription or whether you need to see the patient. The medicine has to be visual, the doctor needs to see that patient, but often it's the patient who needs to make a prescription or a consultation that can be solved electronically. And blessed Telea, Mrs. Prado, Blessed Telea!, that we had already implemented it in our community for a long time and saved us from the fact that in the pandemic many patients were being treated electronically. But, look, we're non-conformists too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u60	I'm done. If once and for all they are able to undo their biases, if these recurrent initiatives really have the objective of looking for constructive measures to further improve Greek public health, they can prove it by approving our amendment and reaching an agreement. Greek health deserves this effort...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u61	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u62	... -- I'm done now -- and unanimity to achieve better primary care. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. As Mr. Balsairo says, I'll try to do it quickly, which is time to eat. For once we agree with this... One of the learnings that usually shows psychology is that the states of frustration or disappointment -- and other anemic evaluations at the moment -- have much more to do with expectations than with the results itself. When one adjusts expectations well, the natural thing is that there are a lot less imbalances in the evaluation of results and that are more consistent with reality. This is what usually happens when we debate with the People's Party. One gets a little disappointed because he knows what's expected. It's true that at some point -- from our group --, trying to look for those points of agreement -- which is often said here --, it's called for the deal by insulting the opposition -- that that's very good -- : : "You have to wake up with us...Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh That's very good --. But one of the issues that led us to understand that there could be a point of agreement is that, for example, because you quoted the spokesperson for the People's Party, the recent appearances on primary care in the Committee on Health -- in this government to that new director general -- that we welcome to this Parliament -- we transferred from our group that we shared with you some of your analyses on primary care, because they shared our analysis --. And by the way, they were demolitioners with the health policy of the Union, demolitioners! But I could focus on things in a way where there could be some agreements. The problem is -- because now we talked about the last commission -- in which I heard in the last committee, "That's right, but now my position is different." And this comes to say that, yes, that at that time I said that, but that now, that he has to rule, he no longer thinks it and thinks otherwise. Or as it was -- or as we understand -- in the last commission, which literally said, "My first goal is to deny the opposition." It's an interesting thing about governments that their first goal is to deny the opposition. And this shocks -- and that's why it comes from expectations -- with the tendency that in these repeated debates on primary care for the initiatives brought by the Galician Nationalist Block and we bring the socialists -- not because the People's Party brings a lot, the truth is said -- there is a question that is much more important than getting into the matter, and that should be the fundamental one. And we respect the debates. Because here basically there's a speech, a story, built on the one about "you're desisting," "you're attacking," "you're confronting," "you're not adding up"... well, it's good as an attempt to tell. But, look, I'm going to try to take a look at some of the specific issues raised in these debates and the reality of our vision -- which may not be complete -- about how they are discussed. We have long defended the inclusion of mental health in primary care. The People's Party has systematically voted against. We defend a connection of mental health to health centers, and the People's Party systematically votes against. Recently the People's Party introduces psychologists into primary care, introduces few, and for us it is important the whole group, the whole team, because otherwise it breaks the concept of specialty and primary that we have in our system. So what they were voting against now starts timidly doing so. We advocate the incorporation of professionals to do the triage work, and the People's Party has discarded it, voted against it systematically, and now it's starting to talk about the triage work. We advocate the inclusion of administrators in primary care as a way to defuse professionals -- especially optional ones --. There were even attempts to ridicule this proposal here in this Parliament, to laugh at the fact that we proposed that the administrations would contribute to better health, and contribute. And now we hear the People's Party talk about it. We often talked about positive discrimination in difficult-covered squares. We proposed it here in comarcas hospitals, in rural health centers. The People's Party said that that was not the solution, that it was the Socialists' fault, that they always... now they're starting to talk about it, but they haven't done anything yet. We argue that the new categories of work can be a solution, but we have to negotiate them with the unions, the ones who presented the last proposal to them on the 19th afternoon when the 20th morning was registered here in Parliament with the budgets. Therefore, much to negotiate was not there. We speak of the presence at the moment as an agreement between professionals and patients. And we defend -- because it's absolutely logical -- that if we can be talking about 100 percent of people in a football stadium, it's not logical that we haven't recovered pre-pandamy presence in health centers yet. All these things we're defending. But let's defend more. We've been defending for some time now that we have to aspire to cover all the MIR squares in Galicia -- for example, by talking about primary care --. Why do we say that? Because, despite the fact that we can now have a debate here about what we are asking for more MIR squares, what is the reality of the MIR squares in Galicia? In the Feijóo governments there are 150 professionals in family and community medicine that we don't have because Galicia has given up forming them. The squares were there and they didn't ask for it. How many squares did any Rajoy government in Galicia convene in primary care, for primary care doctors, in all their years? They never got to 100, never! How many do we have today? More than 140. And it turns out we have to hear that they're insufficient, that it's the government's fault. They ask for more than they've ever called, renounced to call them all later, and yet, the blame must be on the Government of Spain. And the truth is, it's amazing that you have the ability to defend this. Look, there are some issues I think we should respect. The amendment of the People's Party is that I do not resist to comment on it. It's up to the Galician Nationalist Block to accept it or not. It asks the People's Party Group -- it's fascinating -- "to urgently develop Sergas' human resources management plan" -- first data --. It must be that there isn't. But let me ask them their attention before they go to eat. "Elaborating with urgency the human resources plan of Sergas," he worked with urgency....November 2021, twelve years of government, and the amendment of the People's Party is urgently to develop the human resources plan... Man, they didn't seem to be in such a hurry. They weren't in a hurry! If we had a scale -- Galicia, of course -- of "jetometer", the PP would blow it all up. [[Applause]] I blew it all up! [[Laughter]] I shot the jetmeter up -- Galicia, of course, I wasn't angry --. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, because the jetmeter in Galicia also has other measures that it doesn't have anywhere else. Never, ever, ask for all the MIR squares, summon less than ever, and now that they arrive more than ever, we say that the blame belongs to the Government of the State. "We call for an urgent human resources management plan." How bad they must have been for twelve years ruling that they haven't done it! -- he failed to put it in the amendment --. Anyway... Restoring rate, a fantastic debate. Do you know what's going on? That of the replacement rate says the People's Party that it's a problem of the State Government. But in Galicia, in Sergas, almost 90% of the eventuality does not have to do with the replacement rate. Because it has basically to do with, instead of contracts that could be six months, six contracts a month are made. And that, which is humiliating to the worker, doesn't have to do with the replacement rate. Let's start around. But with respect to the replenishment rate, I remember the years in which Rajoy's government had the 10-percent replenishment rate. That is, every ten doctors, nurses or any professional who retires, hire one. Out of ten, deal with one. Do you know what this year's budget proposal is? That out of every ten are hired twelve, multiplied by twelve. But for the People's Party it's not worth it. Why? Because the only thing that matters in this debate is confrontation. It's 120%, i.e. we're going to hire more than they retire. Of course it would be fascinating if you could get rid of it. Have you ever done it any government of the People's Party? Never, never! And there's no record -- I've been asking for it for years -- that the People's Party would ask the Rajoy government -- none, though it was approved here --. And this year we have 120 percent. They can approve the budgets. They already said no. They want to improve the replenishment rate, and when the replacement rate is improved -- which is in the state budgets -- they vote against it. By the way, we already know that this House will not be the only group that will not support it. Buy the landmark to PP... what could go wrong? All right! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's all right, but nothing, we get the mark on the PP that it's all the government's fault. Anyway... 120 to 10. Of course, this could solve a lot of things. And it'll solve them, because for that it's a government that's hiring more. By the way, that debate also means that, if the law is complied with, it's mathematically impossible that there are 6,000 more professionals in the Greek health system ten years ago, it's impossible. In fact, it's so impossible that the budget doesn't say so. Because, if there's 6,000 more, there's 6,000 they're not paying. That would be fantastic already for Sergas; that is, absolute precariousness. We have them and we don't pay them. But, no, they're incapable of telling the truth even with their own data. Therefore, it is very important that we respect the debate, because it is not easy the problem we have in primary care. There's a possible way of solving multidisciplinary issues, we have to train more doctors, of course, but we have to hire them better. You have to have the ability to solve all the problems between several people and not concentrate them on the faculty, which is what exists now. And there are a lot of problems that are not going to be easy and that, of course, have a hard solution but possible, at least to guide them. But we're never going to solve them if the only speech we have in the debate is, how bad you are, what a disaster you are!, and come here to ask the Government to make urgently, urgently, a human resource plan. Anyway, see if, after so much publicity, we have a little dialogue. Because this could be the case if you approved some initiative -- for example, that of today's Galician Nationalist Block --.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u66	We're going to approve it. Even though we have some nuances, we're going to approve it. You are absent from important things in Madrid. We're going to approve it here. Despite the discrepancies, we are a dialogue group. But it's also true that PP needs to be told that a little less confrontation and a little more solution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u67	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u68	...that so we could come to an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u70	Well, Mrs. Friend, first I have to tell you not to insult anyone who wants, but who can. You come here to tell me, as a representative of the BNG, that I don't understand anything. Maybe the story should be applied a little bit. A little joke, a little joke! [[Applause]] Because I don't know if you've noticed that the proposals that have been systematically bringing here the BNG -- for some time now -- they've been demanding them out there for professionals, for the Greeks, for everyone. The only thing that doesn't understand anything is the People's Party, which is not understanding anything about what's going on out there, nothing, absolutely nothing! [[Applause]] And, look, you say again that, of course, they come here continuously the counselor and the Headmistress General. The counsellor comes because we make him. On his own will, few times. And they're systematically here talking about primary care. Speaking of which, yes; giving solutions, not one, not one! Speaking of which they're coming, but giving solutions, absolutely none. And that you have the courage to come here and say some things...! And stay so calm! It's recorded, and I'm saying it because... there are things that, I don't know, maybe... the hemerotheque holds it all to a certain point. Come here and say that in primary care there are 6,000 professionals more than in 2009... and stay so calm! Now, it doesn't say where or where. We refuse to have a square-identification system so that we can counter such assertion. And stay so calm! There are 6,000 more! For the next day they can raise the bet, that is, 7,000, 10,000... and stay so calm. Is there any verification of that statement? None. Is there a mechanism for us to verify the rest of the humans? None. But the People's Party, for the headline... just like it did: "Let's keep at least 80%." Not 80% or 70%, 60%, and with contracts -- most of them -- three months. But the headline's over, because that's it. That's how you've ruled the public health of this country, the incumbent coup. Realities? Not at all. And the truth is that it's very sad, because we're talking about the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. The BNG is bringing proposals here, just as the professionals and thousands of Galicians are doing, to ask for a new model of primary care, but a new model that improves it, not that it returns to the old normality of a nice, cut primary care; a new model with measures to improve it, not to make it worse, where professionals can do their work with dignity, where the population receives quality care. And in front of that you don't seem to be. Primary care does follow in ICU. And when someone's in the ICU, with aspirins and tirits, it'll be that he's not going to climb up, with aspirins and drawers he's not going to climb up. And what's needed when someone's in the ICU -- and Galicia's primary care is in the ICU -- is an integral approach that acts with all the arsenal at its power to heal, not to fall asleep but to heal. To heal, to heal! [[Applause]] And you, the People's Party, are barely with palliative care to alleviate the pain. And so it doesn't go out ahead of a patient with these dimensions. They're not taking steps to solve the serious situation and what they do is to blame others, of course, to blame others. They persist in announcing measures, reorganizing. But it's not possible to reorganize anything at all if there's no more professionals to do the job! How do we tell him?Oh, my God! It's not possible to reorganize anything if there's no more professionals, if there's no more professionals! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And what we're saying is there's no one left to tell them that, like this, no. I told them professionals and medical schools around here and there, thousands of people in the streets of Santiago a few days ago. There's no one left to tell them that, by the way, no. And you, in front of that, don't want to take any note. So these measures contemplated in this BNG motion -- I insist -- were minimal issues. I appreciate the positive vote expressed by the Socialist Party. And we can't accept his amendment. First, of course, on one issue, because you're the one who wants to "see how we're doing it," right? So, from the BNG initiative, they take off more professional. For what? So, more professional, no; decent work, no; end precariously, hire all people? It turns out there are no professionals and now they're allowed the luxury of, at least, leaving four hundred and I peak without renewing their contract because it turns out they don't need it. So, decent work, no; guarantee presence care, no; let telephone attention be only for complementary matters, no; remove this contract that they removed from the sleeve; no. And they want us to accept this amendment on the subject of "let's take a few ribs so it looks like it does, but we're not going to the bottom of the matter." Of course, you can cheat on yourself alone. I'm not gonna get in there. Now, the BNG is not going to enter that frame so it looks like you're accepting proposals that we bring here when all they're trying to do is take the most harmless issues to -- I insist -- it looks like they're doing when they don't do anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u72	I really regret it, because primary care does need real shock measures and you're unwilling. That's the reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u73	Thank you very much. We suspended the meeting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u74	Let's resume the session, with the third point of motions. We now move on to motion 3.2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, on the policy of the Government of Greece regarding the poverty rates in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u75	This motion was not amended and Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u76	Good afternoon to all, ladies and gentlemen. Fifteen days ago, we questioned the Galician Council, in this case the Social Policy Officer, who has appeared, in relation to the worrying data that have to do with the increase in the rate of inequality in Galicia in recent years. We also did so at a time when public accounts were being dealt with in the Galician Parliament and where budgets are being processed, which are, in themselves, by definition, the fundamental instrument of the political action of a government, which basically allows to set priorities for spending and, consequently, to address the needs of citizens in so many areas. We focused on that interpellation that budgets had to be oriented, and they must be, the 2022 ones, the correction of existing inequalities, so that Galicia would have more economic cohesion, more social cohesion and, of course, more territorial cohesion. No doubt -- this has already been said -- these are expansive budgets, a little higher than last year's budgets, although this is questionable, of course, beyond the propaganda of the Galician Union, which incorporate important approaches, both of the mechanism of recovery and resilience as well as of the State's own approach, and therefore allow margin to act, from the point of view of economic policy, in correcting the economic inequalities that we have seen today denounce and trying to seek, with logical support from the House as a whole, some kind of solution or possibility of solution to what is happening in the country. We made reference in that explanation to various economic studies that could manifest that, over the last twenty months, in Galicia showed three important cracks. One had to do with the worsening of income as a result of prolonged loss of wages, logically related to the pandemic period. I give them a data: in 2019, 19.8% of the Greeks won less than €9,500 and in 2020, 21.1% gained less than that amount. Gini's own index -- which you know, which is an index that marks or measures the existing inequality -- makes it clear that in Galicia inequality has increased at one and a half points, being one of the autonomous communities, in relation to the state's average set, in which it has increased most. These kinds of issues, of course, make it obvious that people with less income capacity, i.e., with lower wages, have less spending capacity, and also, that people with less income capacity, the lowest incomes today, include a category of workers we know as poor workers. The second gap that was evidenced by these economic studies had to do with education systems, which, far from guaranteeing equal opportunities, underlined new rates of inequality. And it doesn't help, of course, that in this 2022 budget, there are eight hundred teachers less in the Welsh education system. And the third gap that was evidenced by these economic studies has to do with the fiscal policy of the Galician Union itself, which, far from undermining equity and progressiveness, was fundamentally manifest -- and so we put it through yesterday in the budgetary debate -- that the Union's policy, basically, benefits tax policy, in this case, high income. In parallel to inequality and the worsening of income distribution, we have to increase social exclusion rates in Galicia. We knew recently -- about a month ago -- the report by the Welsh Network against Poverty on the state of poverty in Galicia, which showed quite eloquent social exclusion data: 694,000 Greeks are at risk of poverty, 38,000 more than in 2019, and 2.7 points more than in 2018. In addition, that report showed that poverty is feminizing, i.e., it increases more impact on Greek women than on Greek men, in particular 2 percentage points of difference. When we asked the Social Policy Officer, we also talked about that in Galicia there were 254,000 people, 9.4% of the population, in a situation of severe poverty, that is, they earn less than 535 euros a month. We were also talking about the relative poverty rate, which has increased, above the average of the Spanish State, and which is about 21% in the Spanish State. In Galicia in 2020 it was at 22.1%, 2.1 points more than in 2019; that is, 598,000 Greeks enter less than 800 euros on average per month. One of the indicators that marked and which basically marked social exclusion data has to do with housing, with access to housing, and with the difficulty that young people in Galicia have to access to housing. One eloquent fact is that 320,000 young people in the age line between 15 and 34 have no access to housing; they remain unemancipated, therefore living in their parents' home. Another important fact, regarding housing and the state of housing where citizens live, showed that 61,400 homes are at risk of insecurity. Therefore, it would be good if the policies for access to housing had been made since Galician union and, at least, the budgets that are planned annually had been implemented. In last year's budget -- if I'm not mistaken -- you didn't run in the housing access policy game at 64%. In parallel to this situation of worsening and distribution of income and the increase in social exclusion, we have that Galicia, of course, has an aging society, with a lot of pensioners, where pensions -- as we all know -- are below the average state. But in addition to the 767,500 tax pensions in Galicia, 52.8%, that is, 404,000 Greeks, are below the poverty line, and 22.1% of the Greek pensioners are below severe poverty. In view of this situation, we find that there is an important wage gap between men and women in Galicia. Women in Galicia earn on average 42% and 42% of women in Galicia earn less from the minimum interprofessional wage, i.e. they earn 21% less from the average than men in Galicia; compared to women from the rest of the state, they earn 8.4% less from the rest of the state, and if we compare them to women who work in the Basque Country, wage differences are abject. In any case, there is a situation of inequality also in the labour market between men and women. There is a situation of wage inequality in the perception of pensions and benefits, there is also an inequality depending on the territory in which one lives, within the autonomous community itself, as reflected in the data of the Tax Agency itself, which makes it clear that the citizens of Greece and Wales living in municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants enter an average of EUR 7,000 less than those living in a city or a large village. In view of this situation, we understand that we must react. So we put together a motion -- I think it's nothing from the other world -- in which we ask, in relation to issues that have to do with social exclusion, basically, that an increase in transfers to families at risk of exclusion is established, that you provide a set of 8 million -- in the budget there are 4 million registered, if I am not mistaken -- that you change the risk and allow your compatibility with the minimum vital income...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u78	...to make a different fiscal policy, to strengthen the education system, in order to recover the recruitment of the eight hundred teachers expelled from the education system, which increases investment in R+D+i...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u79	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u80	... -- I'm done already -- and that basically an adequate and accessible housing plan is made to allow, at least, to establish a public housing park...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u82	...of social rent that triples the current. That's what we ask, and that's what we consider. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u83	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u84	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I wanted to start by focusing on, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on a question that seems fundamental to us and that does not have enough attention on the part of the Galician Union or that it is more a question where the Union has an attitude -- let's say -- omniscient, in which it practices conscious omniscience -- so say -- what poverty is. Although it's obviously a human rights problem and a serious social problem, it's also an economic problem, or rather, turning it around, it's the result of an economic model which, instead of fighting inequality, is fueling it. And the Union -- I insist -- repeatedly avoids giving the debate of poverty in the context of the debate on the economic model, which leads precisely to a worsening of poverty situations. And that's what we saw in the previous plenary in a very clear way. It's not the first time that happens. Earlier in this same legislation, with some interpellation from my parliamentary group, from the BNG, we saw as interpellations that were focused on the roots of poverty, such as that of Mr. Francisco Rivera, at the previous initiative of the previous plenary, in which it focused itself on how poverty came about precisely issues such as income distribution, fiscal policies, the effects of the previous crisis, the problems of the world of work, wage cracks, etc., are answered by the social policy advisor. It goes on to make us look great for the Government to be supportive, as it comes here to answer the Environmental Counsellor, but that there is also a reflection on the table that the strategy of camouflage does not work, as much as the Government of Greece tries to put that face of the currency above, and that it does not work to cover a question that is obvious: the impact on the Greek economy of the consolidation of poverty and social exclusion and its worsening with the coward-19, which continues to be there, because the economic model, the fiscal model and the model of measures, also in the labour field, of the People's Party is the food that perpetuates this situation. And, therefore, we understand that, even more today, we must leave this reflection on the table, a little bit on the line of what the proposed group did as well as on what we saw yesterday in the budgetary debate. So -- we insist -- this consolidation of poverty is one of the main problems we have as a country. I was there yesterday, before the coward-19 emerged, and it continues now. We wanted to leave some reflection on this, too. Although gross domestic product has grown in our country since 2014, this does not mean that we have sufficiently reduced poverty or the difficulties faced by many families. There is one element that illustrates very clearly this, which is the Structural Household Survey, which told us, before the vault -- we see the historical series -- that in recent years this picture has been consolidated, which gives us half of the Greek homes declare to arrive with difficulty or with much difficulty at the end of the month. In view of this, we have a government that doesn't seem to matter too much that half of our country has these difficulties. We insisted, these problems were yesterday. In 2019, 24.3% of the population in Greece -- more than 600,000 people -- were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. The most recent data from this same source, the Galician Anti-Poverty Network, in its latest report -- which has data from 2020 -- deepen this idea. They are worrying data, first of all, because you've already been warned, from the very entity itself, that they haven't shown yet the full picture of the 19th pandemic, by the year they refer to. Secondly, because they consolidate that growing line. If we used to talk about 655,000 people, we now have 694,367, 25.7 percent of the Greek society, that is, more than a quarter of the Greek society that is in a state of poverty or social exclusion; that is, almost 40,000 people more than in the previous year. And thirdly, we understand that, in addition, it is an increasingly serious and growing problem in this context where we are, because there are issues that get worse, not only in the framework of work, but also in the report -- and I will literally read some statements -- to other serious problems, such as housing, which were also ignored in yesterday's budget debate. It is said, for example, in that report that the increase in persons with severe material deprivation is explained by both the severity of the impact of the cod and the increase in housing-related expenditure, forcing many families to prioritize them above other expenses, such as the unforeseen or even the quality of food. It is literally said of the residential emergency in the absence of decent and accessible dwellings in Galicia, which prevent success in the processes, and of measures of social inclusion and struggle against poverty. This also alerts us to the insufficient palliative measures in the field of social policy. We are also talking -- as Mr Rivera said -- about the feminization of poverty; that is, how the gender gap is seen in this context even more. I wanted to make a brief reflection, precisely, on the current context in which we are, which is what will give us, within a year, when we get back to the budgetary debate this report again on the table, as the situation worsens, in part, by the policies it implements or which ceases to apply the Government of Greece. Right now we're in a context of rising brutal prices. We talked a lot about that the bill of light has increased by more than 60 percent in the last year and that filling the car tank costs 20 euros more than a year ago. We can also talk about that even some energy medium, like butter candy, traditionally cheap, has today the highest price of the last eight years, etc. Or we can see the latest IPC data, in which, although apparently the Welsh IPC has increased the same as the state, if we see the series of the year, we see how Galicia has increased three-tenths more. So, despite the fact that the Government rejoices that in large macroeconomic data Galicia is not going so bad, the fact is, if we see any data like this, we see how the impact of issues such as rising prices, in a country where, besides wages and pensions are the lowest in the state in average terms, of course, is higher. What does the People's Party do in this context? To bring to this House a few budgets, which even worsen the Popular Parliamentary Group by its amendments, and that what they do is a regression tax reform -- regressive!, with all the letters of the word -- where it cuts almost twenty-five times the highest incomes than the lowest incomes. That's directly obscene. And, in this context, we thank the Socialist Group's initiative because, in addition to focusing on important issues and which are at the root of the problem, such as the tax area or the work area, it does something very necessary. When, more than a year ago, Mrs. Eloín Ingerto, president of the Galician Network against poverty, insisted that poverty is polyedral, that it has many causes and therefore cannot be incorporated into a single council, but rather must have a more ambitious and more transversal response. In this sense, regardless of the set of the nine proposed measures, there are some issues in which we have some difference, for example, in the horizons that are encrypted with respect to R & D+i, since we in the budget amendments have set other targets. Or, for example, on such issues as housing, we have other proposals. But, in any case, they are varied proposals that reach different weaknesses and walk towards a minimal horizon of finding a solution. The reason for not presenting ourselves, on the part of the Galego Nationalist Block, an amendment that would question any of them or which would guide it, a little further, towards our political proposal, was precisely to seek a consensus, because it seemed to us a positive point of view and a positive starting point. We understand that the fact that the People's Parliamentary Group does not present an amendment does not exactly go in the same direction. Anyway, we'll wish the lucky group. In any case, I finish with two reflections. On the one hand, poverty must be seen together as a social problem, but also as an economic problem, which is growing, and of course, it is not narrowed down with palliatives, but it requires both conjunctural measures and structural measures. And that does not happen, in the context of this crisis, as happened in the previous one, that, at a certain point, it begins to recover the gross domestic product, even to recover indices, in macroeconomic terms, like those before that crisis began, but that this does not move to social reality with a sufficient minority of poverty rates or with a more equal society, but rather, on the contrary, being increasingly unequal. And in that sense, we would like to see the Union's policy change that perspective of charity, which so often permeates from the social policy, and that it changes it from social justice, from the area of taxation, to many others, giving a little back to what Galeano said to us that " charity is humiliating because it is exercised vertically from above and solidarity is horizontal and implies mutual respect." We would like the Greek Government to practice a policy that seeks a society of mutual respect, a more horizontal society and a more equal society. So we're going to support this initiative and we'd like there to be a correction on the part of the Greek Government, though -- I insist -- after the debate we had yesterday, I believe that both our group and the socialist will have to ask the Government again about a matter that is so important. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u86	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, let's talk about economic models, if you like. I want to start by saying that I believe that we all share the concerns about the different issues posed by Mr. Francisco Rivera in his interpellation of the full past and the consequent motion that brings us today's debate, but I think we cannot share the failure of rigour in the analysis of the causes and in the coherence of the proposals to address such a serious issue as the risk of poverty in the context of the pandemic of coward-19. I confess that I had hoped one of these two things would happen today. The first, that you withdraw your initiative, once you have found that, with your amendments, you have not been able to budget the proposals proposed to us in this motion. You propose an eight million-euro poverty plan, but you give it to your alternative budgets with a million. About the housing program you talked about today, there's no news, and I suppose you're going to want us to hire 800 teachers again with the 5.2 million euros that you're increasing your share, which means that these 800 teachers are going to charge about six thousand five hundred euros of annual salary. It seems a bit poor to us the salary for a profession as worthy as the teacher's, but I understand that the paper holds it all. And all of this considering that you increase the income of the community by 205 million. The other alternative is that you corrected or shaded your arguments a little bit, but the truth is, there were no significant changes. And that's what I'm saying, the role holds it all; it holds up until it closes bigger public centers in budgets to get extraordinary matches, because it's all worth it when it comes to doing demagogy. Galicia, through its political budgetary commitment, has been trying for years to reduce -- I think with remarkable success, by the way -- the three cracks that you mentioned in your inquiry: social, educational and prosecutor. The data allow us to honestly state that Galicia has the best social budget in its history, the best educational outcome in its history, and -- I have to say -- it's also a better cohesive society than in the rest of Spain. Firstly, the budget: EUR 927.4 million. A social budget that doubled what the two-party government had, of just four hundred and sixty million. A budget that enables the risk of 44 million, which, by the way, will be compatible with the minimum vital income through the processing of the Social Inclusion Act, which, if not done before, was because its government has modified this vital minimum income up to seven times, and which allows for palliative measures such as, for example, that Basic Card which generated the unanimous applause of social entities. So I want to reassure you in that way. As I also want to reassure you that there is no need for a specific plan against poverty because -- as you were told today -- there are planning instruments in Galicia: the social strategy of inclusion and the single social agenda. As far as the education system is concerned, I have to tell you that we have Spain's most inclusive educational system, according to data from Mr. Sánchez's Ministry of Government, and with the best Pisa results in our history. What you can't do, therefore, you're trapping the lonely. You can't come here complaining about the loss of teachers, without relating it to the loss of students, because it's quite absurd. I think what needs to be valued are the ratios, and in the teacher/student ratio we have a ratio of 9.2 students per teacher, best of Spain!, not one of the best, but the best of Spain, and I think that's something to be proud of. What you should be ashamed of, Your Honor, is that you come here to demand that we recover the professor and at the same time your government will go -- not vote, go to the processing of the hideous fund, which had to be used for the communities to hire that professor. It seems to me that this is a little edifying exercise on its part. And finally, I want to talk about that path of social cohesion that you were talking about. I think it's necessary to emphasize that the Galician society is the one that has cut most -- the most -- the difference in per capita income from the Spanish average: 12.5 cutoff points from the national average in recent years. That's a cut from those who like the People's Party. We cut 12.5 points to half with the average income of the state set. Today, the Greeks are 12.5 points richer than a few years ago. That's right. You're hiding in the famous mantra: "It's that you rule for the rich." You mentioned some reports. I'm going to read you a paragraph from the Galician Foesa Report -- which I think this one also knows -- which I think will clarify this question: "The data also make it obvious that, more than all in Spain, inequality has grown in Galicia by increasing the distance that separates the middle classes from the poor classes, not by increasing the distance that separates the rich from the middle classes." And he adds, "The biggest increase is due to the income of 60% of the population, which is the middle classes." So, you, Mrs. Presas, were telling us about the economic model. This is our economic model, that which Mr. Valeriano Martínez called -- our fellow -- "the healthy growth," which basically affects the vast majority of the Greeks, who, fortunately, now have more income than when the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo arrived at the Unity of Galicia. But, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want you to confuse these evidences with an exercise of triumphalism because, far from that, we are deeply concerned about the incidence of poverty that is having two factors -- I have to say -- of very different nature. On the one hand -- it's obvious -- the pandemic, which caused a health, economic and social crisis that needs the effort of all administrations to be definitely overcome. The other part that concerns us is the policies of the Government of Spain in three very specific matters, which will allow me to make a point. It's the social matter, the educational matter and the tax matter, the three cracks you were concerned about. First of all, when it comes to the social issue, I remind you that you supported the minimum vital income -- by the way, with the support of all the groups that we are represented in this House -- and that they presented us as what the great social shield was going to be, the income that would guarantee that no one would be left without the basic resources to survive. The reality is that the months have passed and it has been a huge failure in management. It's not a bad idea, the idea is right and that's why we support it all, but its management has been catastrophic and that's why there are people left behind, Your Honor. On the other hand, you worry about the creation of poverty in certain districts of Galicia, mainly in rural areas. We too, especially in those who will be incorporated into those poverty ratios if this does not dissolve. I ask you: doesn't poverty worry about you in the Navy district that's going to be generated with Alcoa's closure? Or at Endesa Bridges? Or in Pontevedra with Ence? Or doesn't poverty in these socialist government districts worry the least? To the German Government and this group, yes, very much. That's why we ask them to rectify it. [[Applause]] Second. It worries you about equity in teaching, but they are curiously supporting a new law of education that fulmins root, root!, the social elevator par excellence: merit and capacity. Your Honor, I ask you: to whom does that law benefit from general approval?, to whom should they go to devalued public education or to whom can private education be paid?, to those who can enrich curriculum in private or to whom depends on the prestige of public education to improve their social position? I believe that, if you are seeking greater educational equity, you must not address the Board, but your colleagues at the Congress of Deputies to remove an infamous law, an infamous law! [[Applause]] And finally, Your Honor, let's talk about taxation. My attention is drawn to the tools used by the Socialist Government and of Podemos to increase the collection: energy, registration tax, diesel tax, plastic tax, payment for the use of highways or the elimination of tax subsidies in pension plans. Your Honor, I don't know what you think, but I believe that food, light, fuel, highways or pension plans are not articles for the rich; although it's true that if you last much longer in the Government, you may end up becoming a luxury and unattainable article for most Spaniards. We don't want it, but, honestly, with the light on historical peaks, with inflation of more than 5.5 percent and a rise of more than four percent of the basic basket that you come here to teach how to fight poverty is certainly a curious thing. And by the way, because he cares about you so much [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u87	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u88	...and us too, I'll explain a question to you. In the calculation of severe material deprivation, of the nine elements that make up it, eight are directly or indirectly related to the price of materials, transport and energy. Man, I think I should get you to think about it! Therefore, ladies, there is much to be improved in this matter. We are aware of that, but I don't think that the improvement comes from the recipes of socialist government and not from the recipes of Greek nationalism. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Couñago. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor for the motion's own group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u90	Thank you, President. First of all, I thank BNG for his position. Of course, it's not that you don't have the ability to go through with it, but I also thank you for putting the vote ahead of me. [[Murmurs.]] The position of the People's Party before what is happening in Galicia is basically the permanent confrontation with the state, that is to say, to place the responsibilities in a framework different from what we are all occupied by all of the German and German Members here, which is the Autonomous Community of Galicia; to place all sorts of responsibilities within the sphere of state and in the malignancy of Mr Sánchez's government; finally, all this that has come to us telling us over recent times and that is worth you as a permanent mantra to conceal what is happening in Galicia, which has to do with an absolute absence of economic policy, with an absolute absence of industrial policy, which has effects on the distribution of labour income, in the deterioration of the quality of life of many people and which leads directly to social exclusion. That's what you're constantly hiding. In active employment policies this morning my companion Carmen Dacosta did here an absolutely rigorous analysis -- which was recognized by the honourable Member and employment spokesman of the People's Party, who is not here today, or I don't see him here in the House --. It was an analysis in which it was apparent that since 2009 the Galician Union has stopped implementing, in terms of active employment policies, EUR 1,540 million. I mean, 1,540 million euros that don't run, they have to see, logically, with the quality of the labour market, with providing the market or preventing the labour market from being precarious, with causing dynamism in the labour market and, consequently, causing Galicia's economy to go in a positive direction to avoid all this that we are reporting today -- which is not exclusive to Galicia, but in Galicia they have increased the inequalities with greater pretence than in the state average in recent times, and it's not just a matter of the pandemic --. The recovery in Galicia, after the recession in 2008 and 2009, was slower than in the middle of the state. This has to do with the fact that less employment is destroyed here when the major economic crises happen, but it costs a lot more to recover at times of expansion. And it also has to do with economic and industrial policies that take place in Junta, or with the absence, in this case, of industrial policies. As far as our motion is concerned, you say that we do not amend certain matters in budgets. We've asked you to do what you plan on budgets. As far as housing is concerned, for example, in access to housing, you left 67% of the budget unexecuted last year in housing access policies. So this budget that you design, which is designed to design the Galician Union, because it is run, which is executed. That's what we asked you to do. Then you told me about fiscal policy. I think we talked yesterday all day about what tax policy the Union has and what its contribution is -- to the extent that it collects own taxes and taxes handed over to the Autonomous Community -- to the strengthening of public services -- which is what taxes are worth --. You have a fiscal policy -- we gave data yesterday in relation to the IRPF -- which favors only high incomes. That's your fiscal policy, yes, yes, in the IRPF, in the heritage tax, in the succession tax, which are taxes that you, from the Galician Union, manage directly. As far as the education system is concerned, here are a number of measures. I believe that, if we take the year 2009 and compare it with the year 2020, they have disappeared from the education system of the Greek 1,430 teachers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u92	That's the equation you have to... yes, yes, that has a lot to do with strengthening... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u93	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u94	...of the education system. The education system is the main tool...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u95	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u96	...which allows equality of persons, which allows and determines employability and therefore breaks the chain of poverty. That is a fundamental element and therefore we must strengthen it, Mr. Paz, and not expel teachers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u97	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u98	...of the teaching system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u100	...that's what you did in the budget this year, 2022. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next motion. Motion of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Paloma Castro Rey, on the policy of the Galician Union on the treatment and management of urban solid waste
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u102	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia and another amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u103	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Castro Rey. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. President, Calvo Pouso: I'll take it into account for when you interrupt, don't worry.]] Have the floor to Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u104	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Fourteen days ago, from the Socialist Group we questioned the Environment Adviser about whether the Government of the Union was going to bet on the continuity of the Lousam plant, but Mrs Vázquez didn't answer us. In her speech the counselor dedicated himself to throwing balloons out, but so out, so out, that when she had to be talking about the plant of Lousam and ensuring the future work of many families in the Barbanza district, she spoke of Glasgow. He spoke of his intervention at the summit of the climate and of how he told all the successes of the Government of Greece in environmental matters. What happens is that you have forgotten to tell some things, such as that we are the autonomous community with fewer spaces of the Natura Network -- that we have not expanded for years -- that in 2019 we have approved in Parliament to declare the climate emergency and yet it has not been done, that our country's water purification system is very poor -- that you see on many occasions the free pipe over our rivers -- that in terms of recycling we are at the queue of Spain or that we mark targets in the Urban Waste Plan 2010-2022 -- which has marked the Government of the Union, the Government of the People's Party -- that are not being accomplished by far or far. All this didn't say. And since the Greeks and the Greeks don't like deception, that's why it causes discomfort. This makes people of a lot of reference in our territory in the struggle for the environment, like the president of Ecoloxists in Action, say that the intervention of the advisor in Glasgow, when he talked about the reduction of gas emissions, was a speptic act. Also to our question of why he stigmatized the Lousam plant, managed by a community of municipalities and which has recycling indices above the half-Greek average, the advisor replied that the Board is next to the municipalities and that in the City of Biowaste and Municipal Waste Strategy 2022-2023, recently approved, allocated sixty million euros for these purposes. We, our group, applaud this budget injection, but whenever it doesn't go solely for blue-colored municipalities -- which, on the other hand, is the usual -- and whenever it doesn't discriminate against models other than the Sogama model. Because the Government of the People's Party has been discriminating for years and mispressing the management and plant of Lousam, a plant that began to operate in 2009 and currently manages the waste of nine municipalities with over 90,000 people. It's a plant that works for one hundred and seventy families in a region with little industrial development, like many other regions of our territory, and which is therefore a plant that is one of the economic motors of this area. This plant in Barbados was born with the will to contribute to the development of a circular economy in this territory. It is the application of the rule of three errors: to reduce, to recycle and to reuse. Recycle the packaging and treat organic matter for the manufacture of compost through the wet/dry system and collect it through four types of containers. And I'm going to explain a little bit how this plant works because of the intentional misinformation that exists about it. Well, this plant works, as I said, based on four types of containers, which are the blue container, where they deposit the paper and the cardboard; the green igloo, where they deposit the bottles and glass jars; the green container, where they deposit the organic matter, remnants of food, gardening, papers to wrap the meat or fish; and the yellow container, where all inorganic matter goes, inert matter (plastics, oil packaging, yogurt, etc.).). Subsequently on these plants, on the one hand, the inert matter is treated by a manual selection that separates the four different qualities: plastic, brick, etc., to then press and pack and send to recycling companies. And, on the other hand, there's organic matter. By means of an electromagnetic method, food remains are then added to composting. This process is carried out by aerobics, i.e. with oxygen and moisture. The result is a compound of different qualities according to the degree of impropriety that they present, so there are low-quality pieces, which are intended for the sealing of cantors or vegetables, and on the other hand the best quality ones sell bulk. These processes that I have just explained have as a result annual recovery data of 8,000 tons of inorganic waste through recycling and two thousand tons of organic matter that are transformed into compost, which in percentage data exceeds by an increase of half-Glygian, recycling 37% of the waste that reaches the Lusame installation against 15% of the half-Glygian. But despite this, we know there's a lot to do and we know that the future of our planet is in our hands. And the demands that mark Europe in recycling rates are increasing. We have in the short term, the month of January of 2024, as a date top to implant the brown container for the organic remnants within the autonomous communities and local entities, and Galicia is too far from this data, so, inevitably, we have to put the batteries. To achieve this, Sogama is not enough. That Sogama doesn't come enough, I don't say it alone, but the counselor also said it in the last intervention and also said it in the press. And even if plants of bio-residues are being implanted from the office, such as those of Cervo, Verín or Vilanova, that's not enough. That's why from the Socialist Group we argue that the Union has to boost the existing ones, such as Lousam, with measures such as helping to change its infrastructure to increase recycling, improve this organic treatment of biological waste, and thus reduce the disposal of landfill. The Government has to ensure that this plant remains beyond 2023 and that these jobs are maintained at the beginning, and also collaborate in searching for processes or systems to modernize the management of these wastes. Together must be involved in the maintenance of this Lousam plant and invest in R & D in order to achieve better techniques that carry out a more efficient management of these resources. We can't -- I said the other day in my plea and I insist again -- lose the opportunity we have with the plan of recovery, transformation and resilience that will be transferred, which counts on a line oriented to the management of municipal waste online with the priorities and objectives that mark, as we said earlier, the European Commission and so that we can achieve them, because right now in our community, in our territory, we are not even far from being able to achieve this compliance. So in that sense is the motion we present today. We want the Government of the Union to work together in this maintenance, but not only technically, as the People's Party proposes in its motion, but also economically, to be able to work together to secure beyond 2023, when this concession ends, the maintenance of these jobs, the maintenance of the bread of these 170 families. We therefore believe that it is also a matter of political responsibility. We have to achieve these objectives and we must stop discriminating this plant in Lousam, whose discrimination only serves political reasons. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u106	We turn to the intervention of the other parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u107	There is a popular saying, in the real sense of the word "popular", which comes very well to this debate on the waste plant of Lousam and Sogama. The saying is, "Get out of there where I'm luxury, he said the pot to the barn." There's another version of this saying, which also used my grandmother, which is, "Look who spoke, that my house has honored." It's Sogama to teach, to tell others what to do! You guys, the truth is, they have no measure. Besides, they're running a campaign of poisoning, falsehoods, blackmail, intimidation, when what they had to do first was set an example, and they don't give an example. The People's Party, Junta, behaves like a bad student who takes a very poor exam and tells him that he has to improve the student who gets an approval, which in this case is Lousame. It will be a scraped approval but it will make a better note that Sogama, the Union, as we shall see. This attitude of pressure, intimidation and blackmail remained, in case there was some doubt, perfectly clear in this inflatable writing, which sent the Director General of Environmental Quality, Sustainability and Climate Change to the members of the Commonwealth, to the mayors of the Commonwealth, last October, where he comes to teach them reasons and demands just what he does not do Sogama. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] Therefore, this letter expresses an absolutely biased, partial, sectarian and irresponsible attitude on the part of the Board, which reminds you of the system of the Commonwealth of Barbanza which has the obligation to collect separately from fractions: paper, glass, plastic, metals, bioresidues and others; that is, just what Sogama does not do. That's what Lousam asks, which doesn't do Sogama. Secondly, you warn yourself of the bad data you have according to the memory of 2020 -- which is not exactly a normal year, so we already know -- which says that the recovery and recycling data in that year were 31.4%, under what was usual, that was above 35%. The European 2020 target was 50 %. Then take out the colors to Sogama, to Junta, to Lousame, because it gets 31.4% of recovery and recycling. Do you know how much it recovers on Sogama plant in Cerceda? 3,5 % versus 31,4 %. And they still want to make demands on Barbados! You have to have a face like you know they have. [[Applause]] Of course, because of that Sogama data, we're at 15% of total state recycling when we were supposed to be at 50% in 2020. We're the closures. And you know what territories we're in line with? With Ceuta and with Melilla. Is this what you assume you're going around in Glasgow and Copenhagen and I don't know where else? [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] I should have embarrassed them to walk with this data all over the world, but they don't care. Thirdly, they criticize the malfunction of composting in Lousam. It's true that there are errors because there are no good supplies of media, materials, spinners... finally, it's bad collection and it doesn't work how composting should work. But how dare you teach composting lessons? If they have a plant, which they did two years ago and opened up in Areosa, which had the capacity to receive fifteen thousand tons a year, and do you know how many tons they received in 2020? Fifteen thousand, and received exactly 242 tons. They should have fallen off their faces. It is prepared to receive the bioresidues of eighteen municipalities and to receive those of three. I mean, absolutely ridiculous and ridiculous data. And the whole thing is that you warn the Commonwealth that a new law is going to come into force that will impose a tax on the vegetation of waste, and it turns out they don't tell you that that tax will also apply to Sogama, that it has high percentages of greenery, and that tax will also be applied to incineration. I mean, they tell him that they're going to raise the receipt in the case of the Commonwealth and they're not saying that they're going to go up double or triple in the case of Sogama, that they're going to have to pay also to the municipalities attached to incineration and greenery some amounts that are -- I assure them -- very high because they account for more than 90% of the waste that comes to Sogama that is going to incineration and landfill. And then they refer to an interpretative note from the Miteco, which is a document that is not signed, which has no legal validity, which says in its final part that it is not binding, and is at this moment, precisely, in drawing up a real decree that will regulate this question of how wet/dry separation should be done and whether we can interpret the European directive so that we can accommodate a plant like that of Lousame. Finally, the final attempt is already when they warn in this letter of the following: "It must present the strategy to achieve the objectives and carry out the actions necessary to be able to achieve that stipulated in the state and autonomous Community legislation." The question we're asking at the BNG is if they sent this same letter to Sogama, because if they send this letter to Sogama, they have to be very careful to comply with state, community and Welsh regulations. Because he doesn't. The first one that doesn't meet her is Sogama. How dare you teach and urge others what you don't do! Advice, I don't have for myself. If they didn't use the previous brakes, because see if this one, which is in Spanish, serves them. This is called seeing the straw, or garbage, in the alien eye and not seeing the beam itself, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. You had to open an information file and sanction the Sogama because it's the champion of non-compliance. It does not comply with European legislation, it does not comply with state law, it does not comply with Pemar, the state waste framework plan. [[Applause]] They don't even comply with Galicia's 2010-2020 Waste Plan, which was extended to 2022, and they don't meet the forecasts in that plan. Why are you coming here? Anyway, they use camouflage policy, decorating policy, politics -- which I told them the other day -- L'Oréal. It smells like rot. In Cerceda it smells like rot and here it isn't even worth L'Oréal and, as much as they spend on propaganda, they won't convince anyone that what they do is what to do. And of course, now they come to us with the Bioresidue Strategy 2022-2023, where they say they're going to invest 60 million euros. Good. We have not seen the document, by the way, of that strategy that amends Galicia's Waste Management Plan, which should come to this parliament. Let's hope he comes to this parliament and we can talk about this strategy. But deep down, it's to move the money that comes to them from Europe to a German plan. Since the sectoral conference there has been a breakdown in which they have been allocated €22.5 million this year, and you, who must come to them to use these issues, make them a strategy, but let's say they do it for taxation. Just like they do with historical memory. You pass olympically from the historical memory, and when there's a state plan, you stick to a plan of exhumation. They join an exhumation plan and go to the dictator's church at Cordoba Cathedral at night, Mr. Married. That's your policy of memory, the churches to the dictator. [[Applause]] Although I have to admit that I saw an evolution. I've seen an evolutionary leap in recent times in the People's Party and Galician Union. They moved from the australopitecus to the prior homo in the matter of waste. We can say -- and I think it's something positive -- that they passed from Mr. Domínguez's "man of Pontevedra" the "community waste bingeers," announcing now that they will, in collaboration with the Deputy of Pontevedra -- let's rejoice -- a guide to community composting. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] [[Murmurs.]] This is a great leap forward for mankind and for the People's Party. Of course, overcoming this phase of the "community waste dumps" they had there in Pontevedra... something is something, some step forward. [[Applause]] Anyway, what you have to explain to us here -- and I'm going to finish it, Mr. President -- is that this what you're doing with the Lousame system has very serious consequences, because what you want to do at the bottom is to turn that plant into a waste transfer plant for Sogama, and that's going to cause a work disaster, because it's going to put more than seventy people out of that region, of which it's one of the main companies. Of the seventy-five people, the seventy are women. [[Applause]] And they're going to go to the streets because of the policies, the pressure, the blackmail and intimidation of the People's Party's Union and the harassment, and I'm going to come down against this plan of the Commonwealth of Barbanza, which needs improvements, which needs changes, which needs collaboration, cooperation and loyalty from the Galician Union; it doesn't need this infamous campaign of harassment and fall which can lead to more than seventy people, and that will be their responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u109	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Bará, you've been well, you've taken the strength and made a speech of self-convincing that I hardly know whether to change my intervention! [[Applause]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity -- Mrs. Castro, Mr. Bará -- to hear again and again, whether in commission or in full, that retrograde vision that they still have, and that they want to inoculate at any price, the treatment of waste management that is taking to Galicia. It's a sprinkling view of his, a fallacious vision, because what they want with his speech is to deceive the Greeks and the Greeks, drawing a scene that is very far from reality. And no lesson, Mr Bará, because here the only one who meets the regulations is Sogama. Besides, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I have to say that in this they do agree, that they have the same speech always: that grey and catastrophist Galicia. What a shame, what a shame! As bad as the vast majority of the Galicians and the Greeks don't believe in that grey Galicia! For that, you just have to look at this hemicycle. And why are they trying to cheat on that continuing campaign...? It's his campaign, both of the Galician Nationalist Block and of the Socialist Party; a negative campaign of confrontation and that we could even qualify as obsessive. Because they have an obsession with Sogama! But let's make it clear. We speak clearly of a model because, unfortunately, at present, Sogama is the most modern and efficient company in Europe in the urban waste sector. Yes! Even though you weigh them, it's a point of reference -- yes, Mr Bará -- for the rest of the world. By the way, we have this visit to Sogama pending. We asked for it on two occasions, but since there were some packaging works they're doing, we hope we can visit it at the next beginning of the session, and that we can do this, ladies, that they stop spilling -- those you see are you -- what? Obsolete and archaic speech. They get up to date, they know the reality of the management of Galician waste, they visit Sogama, as they have already done more than eighty thousand people from cities of other autonomous communities, even other parts of Europe. The German Government, ladies and gentlemen, is focused on working to achieve efficient and modern waste management and to fight climate change. The German Government, ladies and gentlemen, does not attack Sogama's alternative systems, but considers them to be complementary and necessary models in the flow of municipal waste primarily. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, there are no alternative systems, but complementary ones. We can talk, Mr Bará of the Plan Revitaliza, about what I've been accused of. We can talk about the Barba system, the Nostián system. And if you want to, too, Mr Bará -- that we've already talked about in a commission -- about that Guipúsco system that you set an example and then you had to step out. In fact, believe me, it is not the intention of this People's Parliamentary Group to question these models, but what this People's Parliamentary Group cannot admit is that you consider the model of Sogama a failed model, because it is a pointer model in Galicia, Spain and Europe. And you can't change that with your speech. [[Applause]] Because the models clearly are all complementary and necessary!, but whenever they meet the objectives and obligations laid down by Community legislation, especially as regards the collection and separation of waste and the principle of hierarchy in waste management. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Union is in favour of the Barbanza plant, first of all, drawing up a plan to adapt to the waste management requirements in Community legislation and, of course, to seek quality employment for its workers; a plant that meets the regulations and a plant that meets the objectives and obligations that you try to avoid. Law 2021, of contaminated waste and soils of Galicia, and, as expected, that draft of the State's basic waste law -- which I think is being processed and which do not carry out further, Mrs. Castro; perhaps they have to intercede because they have so much partner, sometimes, has these drawbacks -- set out the fractions that must be collected separately, with an objective, which are: paper, metal, glass, plastic and bioresidues that are likely to be separated by a minimum of 50 % and with an increase of 5 % every five years. On the other hand, the Galician Waste and Contaminated Soil Act states that the disposal of landfills in the year 2035 must be up to 10 % of household waste. Royal Decree 646/2020 sets intermediate targets for municipal waste: by 2025 they will be reduced by 40% and by 20% by 2030. According to the business memory of the greenhouse environmental complex of Barba's 2020, the waste management model of the man-community is far away -- not Sogama, but the man-community of the Barba's greenhouse -- from reaching these targets, since the landfill percentage is 66% and the recycling percentage is very low and is far from the Community target. On the other hand, despite being a system based on organic and inorganic fraction separation, the percentage of composting is low and does not indicate that it complies with the end-of-the-waste requirements set out in Regulation 2019/1009. In any case, the data from the center of Barbados must be evaluated, as on any plant, with a set character and not separately. But, of course, it's normal for you to give the data that they're interested in, that we can understand, but that they twist the data, that they don't report... You're the ones who misinformed and intentionally misinformed, because it doesn't suit your catastrophic messages. Apart from organic waste composting data, what other data may be of interest to the Greeks and the Greeks? For the recycling data of other options: in Sogama, 18 %; in Lousam, only 10 %. High percentage of waste disposed of on the Lousam plant, 66%; data from dumping in Sogama, only exceed 25%. That's the data. Yes, that's the data, Mr. Bará! That's the data! And, if you read in detail this interpretative note from the Ministry of Ecological Transition, you will see that it says that the wet/dry model of Lousame would not meet all the requirements set out in the Framework Directive, especially with regard to the separate collection of plastics and metals, nor would it comply with the obligation to separate collection of packaging waste. Look, Mrs. Castro, we're going to see what Mr. Sánchez's government is doing and we're going to see what he's doing to Junta this past decade. Who's putting traps on the Town Councils and hence on the model of Barbanza? Mr. Sánchez's government, Mrs. Castro. It must be remembered that the draft basic waste and soil legislation provides for the introduction of a deposit tax on landfill. Who's working on this bill? Mr. Sánchez's government, Mrs. Castro. This fact, Mrs Castro, will substantially record the activities of the center of Lousam and, therefore, will be the municipalities that will be worse off. The central government, the government of Mr. Sánchez, Mrs. Castro, wants to set much more restrictive deadlines and therefore they seem -- and I say they seem -- impossible to comply with. And he draws particular attention to the fact that even above he congratulates himself, or rejoices someone from the Fegamp, because now the deadline is extended until June 2022, given that state law is nothing but a draft. This assumes, if at some point this law is passed, a delay of more than a year and a half in the implementation objectively of the brown container. This People's Parliamentary Group asks: Is the Socialist Party of Galicia in accordance with this so limited deadline? Do you know the effort involved in the councils? You're very far from the reality of the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks, you just have to look around. You define yourself as being appropriate to recycling, but you really start by recycling yourself and worry about having a broader view of Galician waste sector. The Council of Galicia this past decade has been next to the councils, of course, yes, Mrs. Castro, supporting them and giving them ease. The Galician Union was able to draw a waste law this year. The Galician Union was able to launch the Galician Strategy of Bioresidues and Municipal Wastes. The Galician Union is not against alternative management models to Sogama, but all must comply with European guidelines and ensure stable and quality employment. Junta's next to the Town Hall. Where's the Central Government? The central government is doing just the opposite, it wants to introduce more taxes through a law that can't move forward and it wants to set insofar as there are inscrutable deadlines for the municipalities to implement the fifth container. Sogama is a European referent who is ill-advised with the lowest canon in all Spain; a system which complies with all European guidelines and which is at the vanguard of Europe in waste management. But if one day they decide to give up their speech, there's always a perfectly tested model that meets, which is the Sogama model. That is why, and in order to finish, I will refer to the amendment tabled by this People's Parliamentary Group on that first point, in which we call for this technical cooperation, yes. From the parliamentary group we highlight and highlight the availability of the Environment Council, through the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality, to try to solve problems in the best possible way. We value the position at the disposal of the general management technicians, so that they can make an approach from the point of view and say what the future will be and mark the times. It would be good for the Commonwealth to take advantage of you and all of you to row on the same side, to agree, to give themselves a chance if they want to continue and, above all, not to look at the other culprits but to look at themselves and try to put solutions. Here you will find the Environmental Council, and you will find...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u111	...the General Directorate. The PSdeG must stop being hypocritical. Some days he says yes and other days he says no, and the Block must also leave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u113	...his catechism. I'm done. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we want to build on this necessary technical collaboration to look for that waste management adequacy plan. And, Mrs. Castro, if you're so worried...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u115	...the workers -- and if I'm done --, worry about 43% less that the workers at the Lousame plant earn in relation to Sogama...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u116	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u117	...because there can be no first, second and third workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, you have the floor to Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u119	Well, Mrs. Díaz, you're talking about retrograde speeches from the opposition. I think that the retrograde is the management of waste treatment that is being carried out in Galicia. So retrograde that the 2010-2022 Waste Plan set annual targets and we still haven't reached 2018; that is.... [[Applause]] There's the retrograde. Then you talk about how much recycling takes place in the Commonwealth of Barbanza, and you talk about Sogama's data. I'm going to give you specific data so you can see that it's far above half the Galician. Well, while the Sogama plant recovers for recycling 14.9 kilograms inhabitants/year, the Barbanza plant recovers 51.1 kilograms per inhabitant/year. But I can also make a difference with regard to waste treatment, because it's also a remarkable difference, especially in paper and paper segments, with 62 %, compared to 19 % in Galicia, in light packaging, with 52 %, compared to 22 % in Galicia, and also in organic matter, where the distance is even higher: 35% in Barbados versus 5 % in Sogama. Who doesn't, Mrs. Díaz? Who is far from fulfilling these goals? You also spoke in your intervention of the support of the Union to the complementary and necessary systems, those of Sogama, of the alternative systems that exist in our territory. They undertake to cooperate economically and technically in the future of the Lousam waste treatment complex to ensure continuity and jobs after the end of the concession in 2023. He was also talking about misinformation. Disinformation is the report of Mr Bará's colleague before in his speech; a report dated 1 October and a report where from the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality analyzed the operation of the Lousam plant, which had concluded by recommending the necessary actions and the adoption of a strategy to meet the objectives marked by state and autonomous Community legislation. A part report, a fully tailored report. How this government likes the reports tailored! We have already taken a few corners this year: Article 18 of the Climate Change Act, Ence's accession to the harbour lands, and now it's about the management of Lousam. He said it was a report that was also based on vague and generic arguments, that the only thing he was looking for was this trajectory of disparaging Lousame's management model. In it there are falsifications such as, among other things, that the model used in Lousam did not meet the requirements of the European Framework Directive because it did not respect the inorganic fraction. This isn't true and it's a lie. And when from a government a lie is used to discredit a company that generates a hundred and seventy jobs and assumes one of the main drivers of a region with high unemployment rates, because it's an attitude -- I don't know how to qualify it -- at least dishonest for someone who says he rules for all the Greeks and Greeks. But since the lie has very short legs, I can give you many examples that would dismantle this statement, the statement of this report. One of them is the new TMB plant that is being built in Lleida, a plant that will treat 60,000 tons annually and which has an investment of 18.6 million euros of European funds and generalitat funds. How will the European Community finance a plant that does not comply with its framework directive? And from the Socialist Party -- I insist -- we advocate management based on the principles of self-sufficiency, proximity and an integrated network of comarcal or provincial facilities for waste recovery. She was the adviser to whom she said Sogama couldn't meet European demands. We therefore support the creation of new plants with the use of existing infrastructures. They collaborate in adaptation technically but also economically in order to maintain these jobs in the future when the concession is complete, invest in this plant and co-finance the adaptation, the conversion of this one by introducing, for example, new biological debuggers of the organic fraction that also allow the brown container to be introduced into these municipalities. Let us not miss this opportunity to take advantage of the potential of the environmental sector, of the waste sector, to help generate jobs, maintain the existing one and overcome this crisis that comes to us. And in relation to the amendments, we will accept the amendment proposed by the BNG because we share it in its integrity. And with regard to the amendment proposed by the People's Party, we would accept the same if that commitment of collaboration was not only technical but also economical. So if they have no problem taking economic commitment too, we would also accept it; otherwise we do not accept it. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u121	Let's go to the motions. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado. Amendments are not accepted. Do they call for a point vote? It does not accept a point of vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then we vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the policy of the Galician Union in the field of primary health care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u122	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera. There are no amendments. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the poverty rates in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u123	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Paloma Castro Rey. The amendment of the Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. And there's a proposal you made about the PP. Excuse me, do you accept that from the block? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Oh, sorry, you accept that from the Block, and there's no transaction. We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the G.P. motion of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paloma Castro Rey, on the policy of the Galician Union on the treatment and management of urban solid waste. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u124	We move on to agenda item 4, non-legislative proposals. Non-legislative proposal by G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia to fight urgently against gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u125	There is a self-amendment of the Socialist Group and there is an amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group and one of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u126	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u127	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. The truth is, when we get here at this rostrum, we sometimes don't realize certain things, but it's bad that the press mates are here to figure it out. And just reading information from Europe Press I realized, we all realized, that today, certainly, in the debate of the Digital Gender Violence Bill, there was no member of the Government. I'd expect at least if I were the advisor. I know I had the schedule busy, I also know that you praised the consensus in this chamber, but it would be a good thing to be grateful that sometimes the agendas can be changed, and more given that they're known for days before. Finally, to put it this way, we put forward this non-law proposal -- which we are currently debating -- not just this November, because we are close to the date of the 25th N, of the fight against violence against women, but also because it obeys a concern of this parliamentary group. This concern we had in June when we presented this initiative for the increase in the violence that was taking place in the whole state and, of course, also here in our country. According to the Government Delegation against Gender Violence, in June -- when we presented this initiative -- it was 19 women killed, but it's just that today it's 37; in June, 19, and now, 37. And if there were two juveniles killed and one kidnapped by their father in June -- all victims, of course, of the male violence -- today it's five, from June to November. A few months ago, in fact, the Secretary-General for Equality appeared in this parliament to report on gender-based violence in 2020. And in that appearance she herself pointed out that this violence continues to be a structural problem that must be fought with all means at its disposal. And among the figures reached that day, it offered that the latest data on the known facts of sexual violence in Galicia had increased by more than 18 percent in 2020, a barbarity! But I was offering another data -- which we have already commented on in the commission and which is really worrying -- : one out of every five parts of injuries generated in primary care were cases of male violence, one out of every five, terrible! There is more data, the Galician High Court of Justice presented the data in the first quarter of 2021, which also noted an increase of 18% of victims of male violence in Galicia. And already with more recent data about just ten days ago, from the Government Delegation in Galicia, he was talking about the number of cases active in our country in the police tracking system of gender violence, known as the VioXén system, being raised to more than four thousand -- 4,057 -- women. And VioXen is only in forty and one of the Greek municipalities that have this resource. The Galician Supreme Prosecutor himself presented these days the Public Prosecutor's Office's memoir also corresponding to the year 2020, and in it he warned that every day 17 new proceedings are taken in the Greek courts for violence against men. And that same prosecutor described these figures as insumable and urged decisions and called for coordination and cooperation. He said -- in his own words and we share them -- "it's not enough to take protective measures," as well as alerting the increase in more than eighty percent of sexual assaults without carnal access to minors. Of course, after all these figures there are comments. Except anyone who makes manifest that we're all going to go wrong and fail in the fight against this machismo that kills us and against this machismo that harms us; a structural problem where -- we don't forget it -- machismo is what kills us. In view of this terrible scenario, we think of the PSdG, then we must urgently put all means to halt the rise of this masculine violence in our country, while preventing more murders and more violence in these women and their children. That's why we propose -- and we're already going to the big -- on this initiative several issues. The first is the launch in the first quarter of next year of an urgent plan against gender-based violence, focusing primarily on prevention and education, which includes information and awareness campaigns on masculine violence, with resources, logically, for its identification. We've talked this morning about the necessary pedagogy with regard to the violence of digital genre, as well as in all macho violence. And of course also information and awareness campaigns about the services available to those who come in case they're victims. We'll also try something here today that we've been complaining about since the PSdG and we'll deal with it later. For a long time we have had to ensure that all our territory is filled with resources available to women victims or that they need advice of any kind. The campaigns we request must be differentiated according to the public and according to impacts, be urban, rural, by age, by gender, fundamental, by sex. We've got to start putting the target on the men. Campaigns must begin to address that, to men, they are them, and we are no longer the protagonists, we are not the aggressors. We also consider it necessary, secondly, to increase training programmes in equality and prevention of violence against men in all fields, valuing their obligations in health care, education or justice. And when we say it by valuing your obligation, we talk about it. There's a lot of formulas to do this. For access to any public service job, these issues can be included in the topics, for example. Just like you do with so many other subjects, or at least by giving priority to their realization through incentives, which today doesn't happen. We also call on the Galego Conservatory of Gender Violence to carry out an urgent report that assesses Galicia's current situation on male violence and, above all, to propose measures aimed at preventing and eradicating such violence, as well as measures in the field of education, as mandated by Decree 157/2012. We don't doubt what work the Observatory can do, but if we think its effectiveness isn't due, of course. At least we don't think he's fully fulfilling his mandate. Not to mention either his lack of transparency or lack of transparency in his work, something that worries us and worries us a lot. Fourthly -- and as the self-amendment we made last week to this same initiative -- we consider it necessary to start bringing a serious debate on prostitution to the German Parliament. We know that this debate is up to you -- we know it -- in essence to the central government, which is already beginning to take the steps, but to the and to the Greek socialists we would like to talk about it in Galicia as well. I don't want to make it obvious here, because it wouldn't be fair, the work started a few years ago from the General Secretariat of Equality in this sense. When he began to collaborate with the Gallega Anti-Trafficking Association in assisting women victims of sexual exploitation, which -- let's remember -- is the worst expression of macho violence and also has a secular tradition. This effort, of course, we from the PSdG applauded but we think we have to aspire to more. And together with that work with women, that work of assistance with women victims of these contexts of prostitution, we believe that within the framework of our competences, if we have them, and if we have them, we must promote a protocol of action so that public policies on social services, health, security and equality, all have as their objective the abolition of that prostitution. And what do we mean by this? For example, we mean, first, that it is time to move on to action and set up common strategies for action so that any woman -- as we say -- in these contexts of prostitution, for example, that she goes to a doctor, whether it's because of her consultation, or an appointment with a social worker, in that case she immediately counts with the counseling and assistance of professionals who show her the different resources she has in order to be able to abandon that context where she is prostitute. It's very important. According to the Prosecutor's Office -- also data last week -- the crime of progenetism in our country has increased by 62.5 percent, but there are still very few women who report; which means they don't see undercover in institutions, who don't feel protected. So we propose that we have to be ourselves, that we have to be the institutions, the professionals themselves, who have to be proactive and proactive. This would be one more step that we think we should take and allow ourselves our powers. We know that the responsibility to legislate in this matter is the Government of the State. And that's why we also introduced this initiative, in this self-amendment, to urge the Government of Spain to promote a policy framework geared towards the evolution of prostitution. Of course, we also seek that from this parliament the Government of the State be urged to seek the greatest political and social consensus to renew the state pact, whenever it is reaching its end and that it has proved to be a very valuable tool of support and coordination in the field of violence against men. The State Government has already expressed its intention. Now it is logical to achieve the greatest consensus. In essence, in our non-law proposal, what we propose -- and this is also said by the amendments tabled -- is, firstly, to evaluate the situation in Galicia, to assess in what situation we are in terms of gender violence, to know our particulars perfectly. Once evaluated, make an urgent plan directly to our reality, with very different audiences of course, very determined. And then also start working conscientiously in the fight against prostitution, which -- as I say -- is the worst expression of male violence. And for now, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u129	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. In our country we've already had to go out to the streets to condemn a macho murder this 2021. When the first few months had led us to hope that maybe this year we didn't have to, we received that new blow. So I also want to make a reminder now and also a recognition of basic Greek feminism, which is already articulating concentrations and repulsive samples for this November 25th, to remind us of how much we have to do from all the spaces in our society, also from the institutions. [[Applause]] I think this morning too, it became clear that there are many areas of improvement. We saw her at the presence of Mrs. Employment and Equality Counsellor. In that sense, we trust that today there can be a transaction that is going on and that there can also be a concrete consensus in a vote today. Our disposition is all. But I did want to leave some reflection on the table. And it goes forward to the absolute legitimacy of self-amendments and the recognition that all groups use them, sometimes for some self-demerit, because if we escape something or because some initiative remains uncontextualized; other times because it requires today, because this parliament does not always have the mechanisms of agility corresponding to the 21st century. It is a reminder that the urgent questions to be debated tomorrow will be recorded eight days in advance. So sometimes we have to use these kinds of mechanisms to update initiatives, and we always feel good, at least as a procedure. Another question is that we sometimes criticize the political outcome. In the previous plenary session there was a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group of an energy price initiative to speak of Alcoa. It always seems great to us to talk about Alcoa. Another question is that we then criticise that the majority group when it has to press the vote button to support budgetary mechanisms for public participation, for example, or for an industrialization plan, vote in the opposite direction, and let us make political criticism of the political position, not so much about the use of the auto amendment, right? I say this because without criticizing this question there is something we wanted to put on the table today, which is that respecting the legitimacy that the Socialist Group has of self-amended in what it considers, but it seems to us not to be serious that in an initiative in which one does not make mention of such a complex problem and of such depth as that of prostitution, which is introduced a little by the back door of that debate. And not because we don't want to debate about prostitution, which, of course, when necessary and surely we should do more than we did in the past. Now, we understand that as a washing of consciousness towards the 25th of November we declare ourselves abolitionists and wish for abolitionist legislation is very good, but that's not going to be a short-term change and that's not responsible. Because the topic of prostitution is a subject with capital letters, in addition to any political decision made from an institution, it can have consequences on the most important good we have to protect, which is the integrity of those women who are in a situation of prostitution. So it seems to us to be unwise. And we also believe that it is important for parliaments not to practice adanism. That's why I'm worried it's said here that we're going to start debating, because this parliament and this country have a story. And here, for example, in 2004, there was a commission with conclusions, a commission besides that which has worked long and hard and that has listened to who to listen, that sometimes we are in the privilege of not having to be forced by our class position, of skin color, etc., to practice prostitution we forget, that is that of the people who are being subjected to this violence. And that commission has already concluded in 2004 that prostitution was macho violence. Something that state legislation today still doesn't recognize, for example. So we also have to remember our story a little bit, because since then there have been seventeen years of central governments, of which ten are occupied by socialism, and they have not been able to move forward in an abolitionist legislation. So the question is rather complex. On the contrary, I believe that sometimes we have to put into value questions that we have done from the German field, such as progressing, for example, with regard to the persecution of trafficking. And we agree to discuss measures that can be developed from the autonomic point of view, which can be done, but above all -- I insist -- to protect women who are in situations of prostitution. For example, in order to guarantee freedom, in order to leave prostitution to all women who want it, including migrants in situations of administrative irregularity, there could be steps from both the Union and the State. For example, from the State's point of view, for example, it could intensify the pursuit of forced prostitution with greater coordination of the police forces, incorporating, for example, figures such as workers and social workers into the police ranks so that they can do a more direct and advisory work. To create a network of half-life public centers like in other countries for the development of integration policies for those women who want to leave prostitution. Men's awareness programs as well. Since we finally question men directly, we educate men. Here too, I would have powers for the Galician Union that women are not a commodity, for example. Of course, every institution has a lot of questions to ask. And about the concrete we are willing to discuss and move forward where necessary. But, of course, we do not like this way of proceeding. We also do not like what is happening, and I take advantage of the opportunity to give this debate in the German Parliament, with the law of itself. We agree that it is a law that has many aspects that are necessary, and we do not, of course, present a refund amendment as they have done in the sphere of the State of other groups. Now, we are concerned that, for example, in the whole articulate, there is no mention of prostitution and that then an additional provision is used to legislate a little by the cover of the abolition of prostitution in a sense that we understand that, even if you openly don't want it, because you focus on the pursuit of the owners of alterne or similar clubs, yes, it seems to us that, eye!, you have to be very careful. Because as I said before -- I insist -- every step that we take can have repercussions on who we want to protect. And it seems to us that there are also important risks that a lot of women remain unprotected. Starting because for now -- we'll see that it gives you the processing -- the hints on the table are insufficient. So, we don't want to run much in the face of a problem, which if my companion Olalla Rodil said before that masculine violence was something millennial, that we wouldn't solve every day, because prostitution is the same. Not only because it's macho violence, but because we've even had witnesses since the four hundred and peak before Christ, when Herodotus, who considers himself the father of history, already talked about the prostitution system and progenyism. So we understand that we have to take these issues carefully and we wanted to leave this reflection on the table. And we insist that we agree to ask the State to legislate on this issue. We hope that better than is being done to update some types of male violence, as was done, for example, in the Children's Law with the issue of vicarous violence. While, for example, Istanbul continues to fail, because that point of the state pact has not been developed, which called for the organic law to be updated and incorporated into all the points and all the sections and specifications of violence, as the Galician has already done in 2004. So, if we can agree on the background, not on the procedure. And I want to take advantage of the last part that remains of the intervention to make a mention also of the question of the state pact, which in the previous legislation we also discussed a lot about this. Obviously, I believe that we are in a context where it is important that the political forces represented in Congress manifest -- and it would also be good that it was not necessarily in the framework of November 25 -- a statement of support to which the state pact beyond September 2022 continues. And we welcome the fact that there has been at least at least a verbal commitment from the Central Government to maintain public funds for the Pact on Male Violence. This seems important to us, but beyond extending this question and appealing to those that have not been developed, we also think that in view of the appearance of the morning, where the Employment and Equality Counsellor himself, also my companion Rodil, put some of the weaknesses that she has on the table, such as, for example, what matters can be spent on budgets that are transferred to autonomous communities, or how we design some measures, such as those centres of attention to victims of sexual violence that, without taking their importance, would perhaps have to be integrated into the system of protection that already exists within communities like ours. We understand that there are ways of improving and that we must focus on that question. We therefore also call for the same as we were able to send a proposal as a Community for the debate in the Senate today, because we hope that if there is indeed a commitment towards September 2022 to extend this pact and update it, it will bring about improvements, because it can also be done from this parliament but with a more peaceful debate. In any case, regardless of the final transaction that remains, we hope that we can arrive at a joint vote that incorporates, of course, also the issue of the abolition of prostitution and, of course, also the question of the state pact. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Noelia Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u131	Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Díaz, regarding the mention you made at the beginning of your intervention by the German Government, I'll tell you two things, and I couldn't let it pass: First, that the Greek Government when he's not in this room is working for all the Greeks and the Greeks. Its agenda is public and known to all. However, Mr. Caballero was not present in the debate of the law, he came to the vote for the hairs, and what we know has no responsibility for government. It's more: he has less and less responsibilities. So I thought it surpassed the comment you made at the beginning of your intervention. [[Applause]] And before we get into the debate, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to move on behalf of my group, and from all quarters, we make up all our solidarity with women and families who are victims of gender-based violence. I'd like to tell them they're not alone, that the German Government will continue to work on prevention, education, awareness-raising and awareness-raising to respond and guarantee them adequate services and services. Parliament will also continue to legislate -- as we saw this morning -- to protect them and eradicate this nonsense and also to tell them that Greek society is on their side. Because ending gender violence is a task of all, gentlemen. And I said this and taking into account what the Socialist Party Member said, I would like to make some reflections on the initiative they bring today and explain a little why our amendment was amended. First of all, Mrs. Díaz, they call upon the UN to put in place an urgent plan against gender-based violence. They have a curious emergency at least, let me tell them. There was an initiative in June that called for the launch of an urgent plan in September. But that's not all. That is, they bring the initiative to debate in November -- yes, two days from the commemoration of the International Day of the Elimination of Violence against Women -- and now they can extend their urgency until March 2022. It's a curious emergency. But do you know who saw the emergency in time, gentlemen? The German Government. This is a plan that you are now urgently asking for, but it's not that if you're making that plan, it's that you're already working on it. Galicia now has a strategic plan of equal opportunities; a plan that is addressed cross-sectionally -- which is how it should be done on this topic -- and that counts on a chapter dedicated exclusively to the fight against gender violence. In it are collected fields, measures and actions quantified economically, as you call for in your initiative. So they don't bring anything new because it's already being developed by the German Government. And I, if you want to incorporate some proposal or some concrete action, what I can tell you is that we have always been and kept open to all the suggestions you want to make. But they don't try to sell us an emergency that you yourselves have been dilating in time, because, seen from outside, more urgent than they seem to have tried to choose the political moment that best suits them. They also demand to increase training programs and to value their obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, again I have to tell you that what you're asking is already implanted. There is already a training plan at all levels of the Galician Union, but more importantly, Galicia was a pioneer in adopting a training decree for all public staff in different administrations. And not only that, in today's Union, is training professionals to be trained by the State Government, and I'm telling them about the training that is being provided in the field of justice, or, for example, the training that is being provided for security forces and bodies. Therefore, in Galicia there is training in the prevention of male violence, it is guaranteed throughout our community and it is having successful results, fruit of the labor of this government and the sensitivity of public employees. [[Applause]] And finally, they're asking for an urgent report from the Galician Observatory. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if they're ill-informed or well-informed, but they have to say that every year the Galego Observatory sends three reports to this Parliament, this House. And it is obvious that we still know the results of the study carried out by the General Secretariat of Equality on the perception of Greek society with regard to gender-based violence, which included variables related to violence during confinement. They come back with their urgency when the German Government at no time, ladies and gentlemen, ceases to potentiate research and study on gender violence in our territory, in accordance with Article 12 of the Greek law. Ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be conquered in this sense, this is an undeniable reality. But there's one thing that's obvious and we need to underline it because women also have to know what they can count on us. And that very important thing is that the German Government continues to work to combat gender-based violence, it was believed in the presence of the Equality Counsellor this morning. And not only that, I could now give you a list of all the measures, of all the campaigns and all the teaching materials that have been done, without going any further, in the last year, but we would consume part of the time of this intervention and the two following initiatives, and we don't have it. I could also tell you about the collaboration agreements that have been signed and all the public employees -- and I'm talking about thousands -- that have been formed in the field of equality, prevention and fight against gender violence, in the EGAP, in the field of health, in the field of education, in the field of education, in the ICD professionals, in the field of psychology, in the forces and bodies of security, and could follow. But despite all this, I still recognize that there's a lot left to do, and I think we all agree on this. It's also fair to recognize the work being done and the effort that all of the Greek citizenship is showing to put an end to this scourge. Of course we can always see the glass half full or half empty. You, in spite of everything you do, will always see it half empty and, against that, we can't fight. Look, gender violence is one of the biggest inequalities in our country; I think that's what we all agree with. Unfortunately, it's still a topical issue -- I think we also agree in this direction -- and of course it's also a challenge to end it, and that's what we have to deal with as a society, all together, ladies and gentlemen, the whole society together and all the administrations together, to change this problem, and perhaps the way to put an end to it right now is through laws and agreements between the different political parties. I hope that we all agree on this, too, and that you do not want to break this consensus that we expressed this morning in this House because you do not want to place duties on the Central Government. So, leaving the acronym aside and thinking about women, the victims and their families, as a group, we understand that we should not go forward with a lame agreement or an incomplete agreement. Just as we asked Junta, we have to ask the rest of the administrations, which is why we tabled an amendment, in my constructive opinion, which does not distort the initiative that you brought and which, of course, we consider necessary. Because if we really all want to support women and fight against male violence, they will agree with me that the approach to this problem must be done in full and from all administrations, also from the State Government -- and it has already been said here today in this morning's debate. Both Mrs. Prado and Mrs. Rodil referred to the demonstrations made by Mrs. Carmona, calling for the immediate implementation of the State Covenant measures that are still pending to be developed. Today we cannot ignore this, Mrs. Díaz, because the measures that are still unimpeded are measures related to prevention -- that you call for -- education -- that you demand -- and campaigns of awareness-raising and awareness-raising against gender violence; all of them -- in the opinion of the experts, not in my opinion -- are essential to generate a climate of zero tolerance in society against male violence and to eradicate once and for all these crimes. And given not only what experts say, we consider it not only reasonable, but also a responsibility to demand in our amendment to the Government of Spain campaigns for young people, using the technologies of communication. We consider it responsible to request this cooperation between the Government and the state security forces and bodies with telecommunications companies and with the providers of digital content to eliminate references that are potentially harmful to the network and that promote violence against women. We call for once and for all to amend organic law 1/2004 in order to expand the concept of gender-based violence to all kinds. We have to expand the concept of gender-based violence to other forms of violence against women, which, unfortunately, are still happening in our country. You're talking about prostitution, gentlemen. I subscribe one by one to the words that Mrs. Presas has said right now in this debate. It's a debate that's important enough and quiet enough to bring it as a self-amendment into this room. Besides, 90% of women who practice prostitution in our country are victims of sexual exploitation and trafficking. Therefore, the Government of the Socialist Party has to do what it needs to do is get to work and stop blocking its inaction with a new announcement or with a new news. They haven't done anything with the law of trafficking yet, and they're already talking about the abolition of prostitution. And, above all, they bring it as a self-amendment to the German Parliament. You spoke, Mrs. Díaz, that you had contacts with the Government and talked about promises, but we need to see facts and the Greek women need to see facts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u132	You have to finish, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want you to understand this amendment as an attack or criticism to anyone because I don't think we're asking for anything that doesn't ask society, anything that women don't ask for, anything that doesn't ask for victims and anything that experts don't ask for. I can assure you that, if you do not accept our amendment, we will bring you as a new initiative, and what I can assure you is that while we have to continue to deplore the killings of women for gender-based violence, as long as this type of violence continues to exist, this struggle will continue to be present in the government's political agenda, and this is proof of the budgets for this year 2022. I'm done and I'm going to do it with a sentence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u134	You have to finish, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u135	... -- president, a moment -- of Arenal Conception, which in addition to I really like it, I think it's very close today: "The forces that are associated for good don't add up, they multiply.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This isn't about ideology, age, social class, all women are vulnerable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u136	You have to finish, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u137	So we heard their hand and asked them to join us all in multiplying, as Arenal Concepción said, in the fight against gender violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] To close the debate, the author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Díaz Varela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u139	Thank you, President. Speaking of procedures, of course, Mrs Presas, we registered our own amendment because it actually obeys an emergency, which is ours, which is that of the PSdEG. This is an emergency from the Socialist Party. I would appreciate it if the BNG marked its agenda, with all due respect, that we have already marked ours. On the washing of conscience, I would also appreciate it if you didn't mean us. I don't know how you will use your appearances, but, of course, this is not a lavation of consciousness, but it obeys a reflection, a deep debate that this is giving in our party, as I've seen here on other occasions with initiatives that you present. Having said that, I would also like to point out that, if not the honourable Member who speaks to them, it is also very much in favour of making self-amendments in this respect, but I do say that it also obeys the parliamentary times of this House. This amendment was not registered on Monday at 6:30 a.m., or Monday at 5:30 a.m., but was registered on Friday morning. I, however, would also like it to be registered even before, precisely for that reason, because I understood that it was neither washed face nor meant that it was no surprise that I had taken them with his changed foot. If we know the work done in the non-permanent commission, that's why we bring it here. We were thinking about talking now... I have so many things to answer that, in the end, it won't give me time... but of course we know this work that was done in 2004, so we bring this here today, because I know it was recognized as gender violence, and it's not up to us to do it either, but it's not up to us, too, in that work I read conscientiously, if it was time to bring this debate. It's been a long time. In any case, and to end also with the BNG replica, I mean this must be the first time that a voicer from the Galician Nationalist Block virtually devotes his entire intervention to talking about Madrid. It was fine, it's okay, and we thank him -- yes, I have to tell him -- support for this initiative, but I don't know if something should be changing. We also don't understand this belligerence in your intervention precisely for that, but it's nothing that surprises us either, and we're here bringing this debate to this House. Having said this, and in this respect -- that I want to nuance -- the amendment of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, of course we accept it. It seems good to provide all these measures with a budget plan and also with a timetable for all these measures to allow them to be put in place. I think we were also nudging and talking about the first trimester of the year 2022. In response to the speech of the spokesperson of the People's Party, I mean it's not true that you have a plan against gender-based violence. What you have, in this equality plan, are different protection measures for victims. We've had this debate with you and me this morning to come to an agreement with the amendments. We have not discussed any of them at all; of course, they could be better, but it is not Galicia, of course, the autonomous community that is worse than the state in this matter. And you will never hear this Member say that, but these actions are mainly aimed at the assistance, the protection of those victims, and we are here talking about prevention, which is the important thing. We consider it important. That's why we missed plans against gender-based violence. He made us a storyteller of actions that we already knew, and we kept telling him, in addition, that it's not enough; and it's not enough that you yourself recognized that it wasn't enough. Well, that's what we're talking about here today, we're talking about nothing more than that. More things. Don't confuse, we see the glass half empty, but in this issue of gender violence we see that glass half empty because we think we're failing, all of us, and it's not the first time we say it here, all of us!: the People's Group here, in different administrations, in local administrations... everywhere we're failing in view of the figures we've commented on in my first intervention. Of course we're failing, all of us. We don't just blame the Galician Union, but we are in this Parliament and, as you will understand, the duties we have to put on you. You speak -- by the way, and I'm going to finish this minute -- of your amendment. They say it's a constructive amendment, and we understand it this way, that it's a constructive amendment, and so we have commented on it. But, of course, it's an amendment that you propose to replace. We proposed a transaction with some of the issues that we thought would improve our initiative, but no, it's you who don't have that constructive spirit, because we were going to add to our initiative some of the points you posed, but it doesn't replace, and it seems very normal. Why? Because it completely distorts the meaning of our amendment. They did not accept the proposal for training, nor did they put in place an urgent plan to combat gender-based violence, nor did they accept the action protocol to work on the re-education of prostitution. And all of this you wanted to replace it with two actions, of course constructive, of course yes, about digital violence and state law, but what we were saying is that we can understand it as an addition, but of course not as a replacement. That's why I tell you that, of course, we do not accept your amendment, but do not tell you that we are the ones who do not have the will of consensus, because in reality it was you who completely changed the amendment that we proposed. And that's all I have to explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia, in collaboration with the councils, on information services and attention to women in situations of violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u141	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u142	To defend the non-law proposition, you have the floor of Mrs. Carreira Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Very late -- almost overnight -- to everyone and to everyone. On this day that we have so much talked about macho violence, let me begin my intervention with which it should be an obviousness, which has already been said, in addition, this very morning. Today, on November 23rd, we are at the door of the day of claim of struggle against macho violence, although days of struggle are 365 of the year. And when we talk about this struggle, we talk about Monica, we talk about Soledad, Clara, Manuela, Minaene, Alba, Maria Elena, Sandra, Maria del Carmen... on November 25, we claim the feminist struggle for them, for which they are no longer, but also for what we resist and for what they are about to come. Because male violence affects us all, it hits us in different ways, but we all suffer it, and it affects you too. It affects men, because you have a responsibility in all this, you have the responsibility to train yourself, to know what the patriarchate has taught you, to recognize them in you and your colleagues' groups, and to solve them. Because macho violence is not just our thing. What are you going to do? [[Applause]] But by focusing on the specific nature of this initiative, the fact is that we can unfortunately see that masquerade terrorism does not cease. Even when a year ago, because of the breach of the 19th-pandemic, everything stopped, the masquerading violence was only silent, as when we closed the door of our office to stop listening to the noise outside or shut the doors of our homes. It also mitigated the noise this violence was making, and it was drowned between the walls of the home, but it didn't disappear. And when he closed these doors, he also closed the possibility of many women running away, of looking for a way out; they were confined directly with his batterer. As Angeles Carmona, president of the State Observatory against Gender Violence, restrictions on mobility have allowed batterers to have absolute control over their victims. In this situation of difficulty in finding a way out, they play a key role in women's information centres, these entities, of municipal ownership, but which are accredited and audited by the Galician Union. You are proving how effective they are for the fight against macho violence, but also that they are at a time of difficulty in which they are even insufficient. This is also recognised by the Secretary-General of Equality himself, who recognises that the 84 CIMs in our country provide assistance to only 61% of the Greek municipalities, which also leaves 20% of the population without access to this provision of services. It's a distribution that is totally decompensated. We see that the provinces of the coast and those of the interior have a very uneven distribution. Besides, there are 21 municipalities that don't have any information center for women in their neighborhood, which is also dramatic in Lugo, where we have the whole eastern region, the whole Lugo mountain, unprotected. And if we look at funding, as there is a limit on the economic allocation that CISGs can perceive from the Galician Union, the reality is that larger centres require an important investment, much more important for municipal buildings, which are already suffocated; budget that, in addition, we can see how often there is little. According to data drawn from the study recently carried out by Fegamp, after removing consignments for personnel and operating costs, only 5 % remains to allocate activities and programmes to combat abuse and promote equality. Budget that remains short, so in addition, a large majority of the centres have insufficient staff. According to this same study, 47% of the centers work with the minimum staff required by law: a lawyer and a psychologist. Yesterday, the Women's Information Centres Professionals Association released a complaint of this situation and called for improvements in their working conditions. We have detected that in some CIS contracts for part-time professionals do not reach the minimum ten hours required and that it is not mandatory to replace low-labour techniques, completely prejudicing the urgent and necessary care of users. In addition, due to their professional commitment, technicians are forced to add more hours to their work hours, and this leads to a situation that needs to be resolved. Personnel paintings, as they are, do not survive; people cannot be cared for by undermining the health of techniques. We have all of us clear the need for this service and the importance it has in the fight against macho violence, and that is why we are presenting this initiative which revolves around three basic axes. On the one hand, we demand the empowerment and expansion of the Network of Information Centres to women, ensuring the coverage of the entire territory of Galicia, and also counting on the media, especially humans, but also materials, that are necessary to be able to develop prevention, detection and accompaniment work of women who attend these centers. It is of no use to have them so irregularly distributed across the territory, with such a reduced economic endowment, making them without access to women who need them, either by a geographical or mobility issue, or by the inability of the centre itself to provide the assistance required because they are drowned, as is the case today in the case of the cities of Greece. The second axis, as it is collected in the initiative, goes through the prevention and early detection of macho violence. When only 20 percent of the aggressions are reported, it means we have a huge problem that is still coming to light. In this sense, public services, such as education or social services, play a key role, which is also shown especially in the case of health care, particularly in primary care. Because of the characteristics of primary care, this level is the most accessible for patients, which best allows an approach to the detection and treatment of these cases. For a few months now, we've had a process of writing and acting in health; a plan that, if it's complete and can be very useful, has to socialize. All Sergas personnel need to know about it and know how to act in both prevention and detection and subsequent counselling. And although this is not the object itself of the debate, there also needs to be time to be able to dedicate to any patient, because the question of how are things going at home? requires a calm conversation, which is not solved with 3 or 7 minutes, as stipulated in the schedule. And to finish, the third axis goes through revision and updating -- if needed -- of existing protocols. The emphasis is placed on what was already the subject of the full text of the past legislation of 20 November 2019, such as interinstitutional coordination and cooperation, which was unanimously approved and which, although it had six months to carry out the evaluation of its execution, is 24 without such evaluation. That is why we are presenting this initiative, which raises these three questions: the strengthening and expansion of the Network of Information Centres to women, for which a specific plan should be drawn up with budgeting, with temporary planning; the development and implementation of a training plan for all Sergas personnel in the field of detection and intervention against violence, and the implementation of the evaluation of the Protocol on Coordination and Institutional Cooperation against Gender Violence, finally giving them compliance with the agreement of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the amending group, the People's Party, Mrs. García Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The fight against gender violence must be a point of union between all the political forces represented in this Parliament. Gender violence is the most devastating manifestation of inequality between men and women. As a matter of precedent, I wanted to thank the commendable work of all the women's information centres staff, CIM, especially during house confinement and the state of alarm, because, despite the exceptional situation, they were guaranteeing attention to women, when it comes to an essential service. I would also like to extend my thanks to the General Secretariat of Equality, which has been in constant contact with the CIM officials. Women's information centres have revealed themselves as instruments of decisive importance at the local level in promoting gender equality, thanks to their activities and, on the other hand, invaluable attention to those who demand service, especially in the legal, psychological and information fields of available resources. Within the care provided, it is particularly worth highlighting that of women in vulnerable situations, for various reasons, in particular, the services provided to women who are victims of gender-based violence or who are at risk of being potential sufferers of that situation. In this way, ICDs have become decisive tools in the prevention, detection, treatment and fight generally against this social scourge from a close relationship and direct attention. It was in 1995 when they began their walk in Galicia the first information centres to the woman, and it was a government of the People's Party, then chaired by President Manuel Fraga, which put into operation the first centers, which were in Coiros, Arzua, Melide and Monterroso. And, at present, Decree 130 of 15 September 2016 lays down the requirements and procedures for the recognition and accreditation of the CIMs. Mrs. Carreira, you ask at the first point of your initiative to strengthen and expand the Network of Women's Information Centres. As you know, women's information centres are municipally held. The initiative and decision to create a CIM therefore corresponds to the municipal corporation, as collected in article 2 of the aforementioned decree. I'm going to give you an example: The CIM of Pontecaldelas, I think it sounds to you. I must remind you that it was the only Women's Information Center that closed in Galicia. At the end of 2016, the Council of Pontecalelas decided not to renew the contract of the two workers, a lawyer and a psychologist, and replace the CIM -- after ten years of tireless and effective work, despite having the budget allocated for this purpose by the Board of Galicia -- for a full legal advisory service to deal with various matters, one day a week. And who then ruled in Pontecaldelas? For a tripartite; a tripartite of that which was part of the Socialist Party, which held the mayor's office, and the BNG. This was the first time that he closed a CIM in Galicia, a red line that should never cross, and that he had two left-wing parties that assumed feminism. The left-wing government has put forward other interests to those of the women of Pontecaldelas. It's very hard to understand that there are councils that think it's not worth having a CIM to help women. That's also understood by Justice in terms of favourable rulings to workers. Although yesterday Mr. Caballero said in this parliament that the CIS should be present in all municipalities, we see that not all socialist mayors think the same thing. Because -- I insist -- the Galician Union is the administration that finances most of the expenses of the CIS, including the costs of its specialized professionals, responsible for the direct care of women in vulnerable situations. Without a priority of attention to women and their children, these municipalities holding the ICDs are also financed by the economic effort of the Galician Union. Together, every year, resources are increased to promote full equality and eliminate masculine violence. It seems reasonable, therefore, that the rest of the public administration, especially the local administration -- which is the closest to citizenship -- does not suppress special care services for women. Look, on June 1st, 2021 in Galicia, the CIM network rises to 84 municipalities, following the accreditation of the CIM of the Aguiar Perero and that of Avia Carballeda. Thus, we have representation in the four provinces: 29 CIM in the province of Coruña, 11 in Lugo, 17 in Ourense and 27 in Pontevedra. The province of Coruña has the largest number of information centres for women, but it does not present the largest number of municipalities directly attended by individual and shared CIMs. The province of Ourense stands out as being the largest number of municipalities covered directly with the management of CIM, both individual management and shared management. And the province of Pontevedra is the one that presents a higher coverage rate of municipalities attended by the management of their CIMs in individual or shared management with respect to the number of municipalities in its province. However, if we take into account that a part of the CIS represents a community, a set of municipalities, it is concluded that the number of municipalities in Galicia that receive the provision of services through these CIS is much higher, approaching a number of 187 municipalities in Galicia, which means 60 % of the Greek municipalities. On the other hand, I must talk about the training of CIM professionals in Galicia, and so in 2020 the General Secretariat of Equality has organized and developed the second training plan specific to CIS professionals, in order to provide them with tools and knowledge that help them improve their work. This training plan consisted of six training days, in which subjects were addressed as self-care techniques to prevent and shorten burnout syndrome, telework, social networking communication or minimum vital income and the repercussions on women victims of gender violence. In this course more than 180 CIM professionals participated, and this year 2021 is carrying out the third formative plan, which will end in December. As I said before, we cannot accept the first point of your initiative, because you seem to forget that the initiative to create a CIM corresponds to the municipal initiative. That is why the sense of our amendment, which is intended to make it clear that any initiative that promotes the municipalities in this area will count on the support and funding of the Galician Union, as it has so far been, without exception. [[Applause]] We believe that this precision is important and, in order to reach an understanding, we present the following amendment of substitution, which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to support all initiatives that encourage the Greek municipalities to expand the network of information centres to women, strengthening the coverage of the entire territory of Galicia and supporting the necessary human and material means to develop prevention, detection, support and counselling work for women attending these centres." In relation to points 2 and 3, literally reproduce the points that you propose, because we agree -- as I said in the morning -- in their objective, and we would have no problem voting for it. In relation to the second point -- how well I just told you --, we agree. In fact, I can tell you that the Health Council has been working on the training of its professionals in the field of gender-based violence for years. But it is also the Decree 70/2017, which regulates equal training, which includes among the staff who must be trained in the field of gender equality and violence the staff statuari del Servicio Galego de Saúde. But from a long time before the entry into force of this legislation, Sergas offered training for his professional training in the field of equality. From 2009 until 2017, the equal opportunity course was given between men and women, directed to all the staff of the Galician Health Service. Even so, between 2015 and 2017, the course was taught Violence against Women, as it is detected and guidelines for action, since the Galician Health Service. In fact, the fight against gender violence is a fundamental issue for both this parliamentary group and the German Government, and this commitment for equality is also reflected in the budgets for next year. The Employment and Equality Council envisages EUR 380 million, 9.2% more than the previous year, to develop actions in different fields and, among them, gender-based violence and the promotion of equality. There will be more resources for victims and promotion of equality. I don't want to extend because I see I have a few seconds left. What I wanted to tell you, Mrs. Carreira -- as I told you a few hours ago -- is that, given the importance of this matter and the willingness to agree that our amendment expresses, which literally collects points 2 and 3 of the initiative, and point 1 simply the nuance to insist that the councils have competences, because it would be important to achieve unanimity on this initiative. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u147	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Well, in our previous non-law proposal we had already come up with data that actually build a scenario of genuine social emergency in the field of violence against men in our country; one point is what we see in those conducts that, as we have already said, are evidence that we are not actually pursuing policies to eradicate that violence. I repeat again: we're not touching, nobody's touching. And this means -- although it may sin repetitively -- that what we want, the PSdG, is that we must act urgently in the plane -- as I say -- of prevention, also of protection, but especially of prevention. In fact, there have been numerous occasions when our parliamentary group has made a statement in this same parliament that in our country there are still several districts that do not have any information centre for women. In addition, as the BNG partner has already stated, there were so many others in which the Government's self-responsive response -- we also hear their response here today -- referred us to a local government resource. And today we're going back to hearing this argument again. Moreover, in that legislature, our parliamentary group has also brought a number of requests to this chamber. Last year too, we were proposing to create a real network of information centres for women that would guarantee full service to women in the 313 Greek municipalities, ensuring sufficient economic resources to cover their functioning. In essence, this is also what the BNG Group is asking for today, and it has not been approved. I hope that if you have the greatest luck today, even though I see that amendment is not exactly what you asked at first. The reality is that, being a local resource -- no one puts it in doubt -- given the budget constraints of the municipalities -- especially of the small municipalities -- it is necessary that the Galician Union should be involved in promoting these centres, in addition to the fact that its costs, especially the labors, are covered by nearly money from the State Pact; as Mrs. Rodil said this morning, from the State Pact, but you could also invest your own funds for this purpose. It was said here -- and it was also exposed in the first intervention -- that Asociam, which is the Association of Professionals and Workers and CIM Workers, claimed yesterday -- well, yesterday or earlier, I don't know when they issued this communiqué -- better working conditions -- as I say, they already said --. And we understand -- because we know him in addition to first-hand -- that it also needs to be like this. So, yes, it's true, it's a local competition, a service, a local resource, but of course it needs the shelter and impulse of other administrations and, in particular, of the Unity of Galicia. We, therefore, are consistent with our own ideas and with what we have often stated here, we support this BNG initiative both to strengthen the information centres for women who have the most work load and also to complete that network of the CIS, and thus guarantee the coverage of our entire country with this necessary resource. Let us remember that there are almost 40% municipalities in this country that do not have that resource. It also seems, and it's finally planned in next year's budgets, that the Council of Galicia has planned a centre with a provincial structure dedicated to sexual violence for twenty-four hours, assistance to victims of sexual violence. We were hoping that in some way, given its theme, it would also help to coordinate all the CIS -- we don't know what it's going to be like -- or at least bring up resources and help relieve their workload. We don't know what it's gonna be like. But, said this, we are talking about the CIS, our parliamentary group, if we would also like to open a debate that has much to do with the second point in which the Galego Nationalist Block formulated, which is to open a debate on this type of resources to women's information centres, which were, by the way, well-born as information centres of all kinds -- because they were not women's information centres for the assistance of victims of violence, but they were women's information centres as such -- from information centres to women -- they now work almost exclusively to provide advice and assistance to women victims of violence. I leave on the table the need for them to recover in part their primitive orientation, but, of course, for that they need a lot more resources and it's not the debate today either. The reflection that we wanted to take advantage of today to bring to this parliament, which, by the way, in addition to the worries of much of the feminist movement, of feminist associations of small towns and especially rural women -- I'm speaking in this case, for example, of Fademur, who often moved this issue to us -- is about the desirability of setting up other kinds of channels or mechanisms so that women of very small population nuclei where the neighborhood is known, where there is a problem for them of intimacy -- it's something that should not surprise us either -- women who may be being mistreated by their partners or by someone, can complain about it or find it without having to come to one of these centers that is almost like it is pointing them out. And this is something -- as I say -- that it's a reflection that comes to us from rural feminist associations. In a way, it's also a little bit of the non-legislative proposal that we raised in our previous LNP with regard to women in contexts of prostitution. What we're talking about here is establishing an engineering of all services and institutions (educational, health, judicial, social services, etc.) to prevent women in certain territories from exposing their situation of violence because they are intimidated by the context. And this -- as we believe this non-law proposal, or at least if it progresses in this issue -- could begin, for example, with a training plan, with a plan of what this LNP is talking about in the field of detection and intervention by all Sergas staff, but especially in primary care. The ex-government delegate against gender violence, Miguel Llorente, pointed out years ago -- a few years ago -- in a meeting, which, in fact, the training of health personnel was a pending matter both so that it is a figure of detecting violence against men and to understand that it is also a public health problem, which increases the risk of women suffering from illness, because it increases morbidity and also increases mortality, whether by clinic as well as by homicides and suicides. So, if we do so, as this initiative we're discussing suggests, when a woman comes to her doctor or head doctor, usually on a private appointment, you can find in that professional a person to give that first alarm voice. We thought it would also be necessary to do so in other professional bodies -- as I said --, starting with, for example, also by family judges, where many victims do not report their aggressors at that time of ending the relationship precisely because they think that there will end that hell that they are living in, and really, unfortunately, it is not. Finally, and by order of reference to the non-law proposal that we are debating, we also support the third point, referring to the referral of an evaluation of the protocol of coordination and institutional cooperation against gender violence, to the violence of the macho here in Galicia. In part, it has much to do with what we said in our previous initiative. We hope we don't know if a larger work at the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, simply because, as I say, we really don't know what that work is. By setting an example, the General Secretariat of Equality website looks at a lot of reports and has some data -- we thought it might be more -- but we don't know anything from the Gender Violence Observatory -- practically a resource that gets diluted on that website. So it is urgent to evaluate this protocol that exists now, in which, in addition, we appreciate many, too many unmet issues; it is essential to evaluate it also because it is urgent to update the mechanisms of institutional intervention for the prevention, care and protection of women and also of those and minors who suffer violence. We didn't say it anymore; besides, the prosecutor general said it a few days ago in this same chamber, in which he warned that it was not enough -- we repeated -- with the adoption of protection measures and called for greater and better coordination among all the institutions. This is really what this protocol is about; what it is about is that this work is being evaluated precisely by coordination between all institutions. Nothing else. I understand, however, that it is clear that we are going to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Carreira Pazos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. To begin with, thank you for the Socialist Group's favourable vote. And with regard to the amendment made by the Popular Group, to see that there is a problem: to say that it corresponds to others is the solution while we have in our hand tools that can help solve it is like sweeping under the carpet so it doesn't look dirty. The problem is, that dirty thing isn't even the pellets that come up from the food or the furrows that are under the bed. We're talking about women who can't access a service that has proven to be a key to improving their situation. We need much more than good intentions. Even yesterday from this rostrum, comrade Noa Presas referred to one of the usual slogans of feminist demonstrations: "We need more resources and fewer speeches." And obviously the CIMs are of municipal ownership, but the Galician Board has to ensure that all women have access to this assistance and counselling resource. [[Applause]] And in line with a willingness to agree on this issue, we let the possibility open up for a joint transaction. And continuing with the following two points of the initiative, with regard to training, there is no point in denying that steps are being taken on this line, but these steps must be many more and must ensure that training reaches the entire staff of Sergas. We cannot continue to support training on such a serious subject as male violence in volunteering or in availability. And already in point 3, and allow me to speak directly to the People's Group, parliamentary agreements are to fulfill them, not to stay on the paper. It's not about doing something nice or doing something like who. This point draws up a parliamentary agreement dated November 20, 2019; there are two years; there may be a delay, which everyone understands; what can't be limited to that which is left there in the paper. And to end my intervention, let me finish with a little anecdote, a real case that happened to a partner in a primary care consultation. One patient -- let's just put on a case called Carme -- contacted this professional by phone early this year, because he had no other way of asking for an appointment, for a mild anxiety theme in principle in relation to a work problem. First, phone check. It was quoted a few days later in person, because there was no gap before, although the patient was quite afraid. She's a new patient, the doctor wasn't in line with everything that was happening, so the first consultation was a little bit of contact. This companion, a person trained in gender issues, knowing that there is a reality that is not told in the first exchange, I quote it at fifteen days, without it being strictly necessary by such a light painting. I mentioned it in a 20-minute scheduled query, the query took an hour, an hour that it also amortized after it was over after it had finished its working hours to finish the schedule it had marked. She was selling it from fifteen days to forty-five minutes in schedules that exceeded the forty, the fifty patients, for four months, to build a medical-patient relationship, because she suspected there could be more. Until the contract with this professional and the patient was finished, he didn't know any more. He didn't go back to the health center, we don't know if this companion's suspicion was true and if there really was anything else. When we talk about improving the quality of care in primary care, we talk about this. It's not just to respect the rights of patients or workers, it's that if we can be escaping things like these, cases of gender-based violence, masculine violence that, for lack of time, because of lack of availability, we can't detect. [[Applause]] Because these consultations are delayed, require time, require analysis, and require confidence between the professional and the patient. Because they're not things that talk in the trash. Every time there's a vacancy left that's not covered or that's going to be covered by interstitutions from the rest of the health center's staff, we dynamite that relationship. Let us always bear in mind that macho violence, in the same way that affects all of us and all of us, also affects us in all areas of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-law proposal by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and the Mercedes Complaints Zas, on the managements to be carried out by the Galician Council for the Protection of the Brains of the God, along the municipalities of Aranga, Oza-Cesuras and Curtis, and their inclusion in the Natura Network
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u151	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u152	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Queixas Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u153	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good evening, ladies. Let's start this intervention at the beginning, that is, making presentations. These two photographs are the protagonists of this intervention: the bellies of the God. [[Mr. Queixas Zas shows some pictures.]] Obviously, it's a simplification. They can't fit here, or with many more photographs, the more than 3,300 acres that make up this natural setting. But in any case I'm sure they're focusing on something that's very important: green, green made in Galicia, our authentic, original green, and true designation of origin. [[Applause]] This is what God's brains are. And well, let's also contradict, if I may say so, that saying that an image is worth more than a thousand words, and let's step into words so that it contains everything that is impossible to collect in these two photographs. The brains of the Deo, with a toponymous Greek for sure quite enlightening, quite transparent, are a set of wetlands, mainly briers, turbid, which are accompanied and in contact with forests of amiers, strawberries, priorities, as well as hydrophiles and slaughterhouses. They are, as a whole, global, as the territory is to be seen, an area of high ecological value and also a huge landscape singularity, which I invite all of you and all of the honourable Members to meet. That's why the central zone of the reserve of the Coruñas and Terras do Mandeo biosphere, a natural water reserve, a space so fundamental natural that rises the region of the Marines and is located in the basin of the Deo, a tributary of the Mandeo River. It absorbs a multitude of streams, streams of head of this river, forming a large hydrological network, of great environmental, social and landscape value, distributed along three municipalities: Oza-Cesuras, Aranga and Curtis. The river network that makes up the Deo River and the Mandeo River has a high interest in the conservation of biodiversity of protected species such as the fifty turtle, threatened species such as the temporary ra or even two species that are already in danger of extinction: the water fern and the river mexillon. That's why this area was included in the Galician Hydrological Plan as thirds of interest of threatened species. Well, at present, God's brains present a worrying level of degradation, which is not by chance, it's not random, it's not due to weather inconsistencies and adverse natural circumstances or much less. It's a progressive degradation that leads to becoming an irreversible predation of the territory if we don't act on time, and since I say we're still on time. And this is because, as you are now seeing, this alliance is formalized between the most devouring, most ruthless and ruthless capitalism, with that administration of the Government of the People's Party, which is so convivent, so dialogueative, so tolerant, even with embraces to the board of administration of energy and forestry lobbys, as it is at the same time quiet, cold and distant with all a social cry that was born throughout these times and that is defending the dignity of the territory, which is the same as defending the dignity of people, since the defense of biodiversity of our natural environment, which is, of course, what it does, as we saw in the images of the branches of the God, that green Galicia we know well, we enjoy and what everyone is talking about and has nothing to do with that modern, slammed Green-Light that they want to import us. [[Applause]] We would therefore like to refer, of course, to this social cry, to put into force and to acknowledge with all generosity that commitment of a society that declares itself defenceless, ignored and even burdened and that is being rebellious, with all the resources at its disposal, against opacity, the lack of transparency, intransigence, even the mafia attitudes of energy companies and also of a government that gives it only silence by reply, given -- it seems to be -- only to the particular and speculative interests of private enterprises. And that's why today we want to singularize this recognition in representatives of different platforms that accompany us in this Chamber. The clean Air Neighborhood platform in the Mandeo Marines, the Alegre Neighborhood Platform, the Monfero Neighborhood Platform says no to the macroeconomics, SOS Heritage Monte do Gato-Seselle, Fundación Fragas do Mandeo de Custodia do Territorial and the Galician Society of Natural History of the Marines. Thank you, we thank you heartily for defending this territory, for defending the region, for learning the greatness of the Cat Mountain, which I recognize you as unknown, for demonstrating the importance of the cultural heritage that welcomes you as this megalithic necropolis and that tower of Theodomiro, declared BIC, which we had to make protagonists in this chamber to protect you from the frivolity, the distance of a government that does not want to be up to or present to defend our cultural and natural heritage, but it does seem that you want to watch or sign your death act by blinding your eyes to the political, political and economic policies. [[Applause]] Really, acting like you all do and all of you in defense of the natural environment is acting in defense of people as well. That is the concept of closeness and brotherhood which the people of Greece have always practiced, which, of course, at the BNG we have supported and which we have also attended many times in this Chamber with sadness to some criminalization by the People's Party. Because what we're talking about is actually about the forest and windpolie. These are threats to God's brains. Today, the vast majority of the territory that occupy the God's brains, plus these 3,300 hectares, constitute a threatened territory, overcomes threats by the processing of six wind farms -- really a huge macropark --. Ten airlines from Fontella Park are directly integrated into this natural reserve. The Penas Good Park also affects the Brañas do Deo, the Cat's wind farm also -- whether it's aerogeors, either with aggressive access pathways or with electrification cages that condemn to the most absolute drought an area with a water resource as imposing as this --. But it's also true -- as if not, I couldn't miss a Greek hectare without the Crown Queen -- that the Brains of the God are threatened by a private project of eucalyptus plantation, randomly presented just twenty-four hours before the start of the planting moratorium of this invasive species -- unfortunate occurrences that occur --. [[Applause]] How did we get here? That's the question. With this wealth of our means, how do we reach this level of aggression? Well, of course, it can only be explained from a policy of decision-making and environmental abandonment of the People's Party in the twelve years that has been ruling with an absolute majority. So he could have acted to protect this area and he didn't. To what end, then, didn't he? For I believe that at this moment reality is giving us, or confirming, the keys we suspected: to favor the speculation of private interests, and now we find that with true premeditation and alleviation. And how is this demonstrated? Well, in a brief memory review in a short time of what I have. The Brains of the God are part of the LIC -- as a Community Place of Interest -- of an area that has already been proposed for the expansion of the Natura Network in 2008 and later in 2011, as the European Union demands, which is continually remembering that Galicia, with 12% of its protected territory on the Natura Network, has an absolutely insufficient level, when the average should be 28%. In twelve years, therefore, the People's Party has not protected, not wanted to protect, the Brains of the God by approving that enlargement of the Nature Network with the Brains of the God. The government has left them completely helpless and unprotected. This paralysis evidently helped to degrade this area and open cancellations to all kinds of aggressions, as we are now seeing. The board didn't stand on the side of the environment and now it doesn't stand on the side of the people who inhabit it. The current degradation shows that it's not enough, that it's not protection enough, to be integrated into the Biosphere Reserve of the Coruñas and Lands of the Mandeo, as there's no protection of some changes of the PXOM that have made -- in this protective sense -- the municipalities of Aranga and Curtis. In the meantime, in all these years, what has she done to Junta? Thus, to conceal, conceal, let time pass and conceal a plan directed by the Natura 2014 Network, which was completely useless and which was, in addition, replaced by a demolition report from the European Union; to conceal when the municipalities of Aranga and Curtis themselves wanted to take a step back and allow, with further modifications to the PXOM, some kind of speculative use in this territory, arguing that it was a highly degraded area and in which to lay hands on; to conceal when the study of the conservation and management of wetlands prepared by IBADER -- of which the University of Santiago de Compostela and also the Board -- in 2017 warned about the destruction of these habitats, referring in addition to the consequences of agroforestl intensification; and to conceal when we understand that very hypocritically propose and develop the elaboration of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u154	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u155	...Green Infrastructure Strategy and it ends up becoming a plan that has no validity and that again confirms the degradation of the Brains of the God, even in writing, but does nothing to intervene in its recovery. I mean, the board's reporting progressively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u157	... -- I'm finished now, Mr. President -- an absolutely degradation promoted by lack of higher-ranking protective instruments, but Junta, which is the only administration to act on to prevent or reverse that degradation, does absolutely nothing in twelve years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u159	Of course, the Greeks and the Greeks deserve an explanation. We deserve it, and much more the people who live in this territory. I finish by simply remembering that our motion for a resolution demands that they begin once and for all, not only in the role but in action, the inclusion of the Brains of the God in the Nature Network.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u160	You have another shift later, Mrs. Complaints. Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group, which has tabled an amendment, has the floor of Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u161	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Good afternoon, too, to the guests who accompany us today in the Hemicycle. I want to start -- and I think it's obvious for everyone -- by saying that Galicia is a rich land, rich in landscapes, of all known, and above all by the enormous diversity of habitats and animal and plant species. Aware of its importance, in recent years the Cunta de Galicia has been carrying out a series of actions and measures to ensure these natural conditions and the maintenance of biodiversity. The Union of Galicia is aware of the natural relevance of the Brañas do Deo, located in the municipalities of Aranga, Curtis and Oza-Cesuras, which are part of the Biosphere Reserve of the Coruñas and Lands of the Mandeo. The Brains of the God set up an enclave characterized by a mosaic of mesophiles sawing meadows, unmanned pastries, sown, forage crops, sawing meadows, abandoned meadows, wet cheeses and turbid accesses immersed in a forest agrarian landscape. It is necessary to indicate, ladies and gentlemen, that the Italian Government has various management tools for these natural spaces, instruments that include specific management and conservation measures for wild fauna and flora species; natural space management instruments that include measures aimed at preventing significant changes or deteriorations in natural enclaves in terms of conservation objectives. Mrs. Complaints, ladies and gentlemen, the General Directorate of Natural Heritage exercises the assigned powers and functions of conservation, protection, sustainable use, improvement and restoration of Galicia's natural heritage through a variety of management and management tools that are integrated to seek essentially the conservation of biodiversity and the maintenance of ecological processes, ensuring the connection of flora and fauna populations -- preserving diversity -- and, above all, those threatened species in our territory. The Environmental Council is currently completing a study to determine the presence of habitats of Community interest in Galicia, a study aimed at assessing the state of these habitats and defining conservation measures as well as the tracking methodology. Even so, Mrs. Complaints, a new service for determining the state of conservation, design of a system for monitoring and drafting conservation measures for Galician cheeses and slaughterhouses, including the habitat 4020, the wet Atlantic cheeses, Erica ciliaris and Erica tetralix, a typology present in the Brains of the Deo. The information obtained from these works will allow you to define the measures for maintaining a favourable conservation state of this type of habitat with wet characteristics, as well as to design the monitoring and control system. But, ladies and gentlemen, not only is the Council of Galicia working on the maintenance and conservation of the Branches of the God but also the municipalities of Aranga, Oza-Cesuras and Curtis, who are working on that protection -- specifically the GDR Marines-Betanzos, in collaboration with the University of Santiago de Compostela --. They're doing a study interviewing neighbors, mountain communities and agents involved in the area. You are stepping on the ground, ladies and gentlemen, to determine what kind of protection this natural enclave requires. All this information will later contribute to the approval also of the expected management plans of different special conservation areas. With which, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear enough that the Council of Galicia is already working to provide greater protection for this natural enclave of the Brains of the God -- the objective of this initiative -- by redefining and realising the specific area to be protected. I try, every time I have the opportunity to intervene -- either in full or in commission -- to avoid expressions that are repeatedly used in their interventions, and that are always the same. He said in the previous intervention "archaic and obsolete discourses". If I may, I would say "caducts", as expired is that request for extension of the Natura Network in 2011, as set out in additional provision sixth of the law in 2001, within three years. But this has already been explained to you, ladies and gentlemen, it has been explained to you. Yes, Mr. Aranguena. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You laugh but this isn't funny at all, because if you're told, then you don't hear or you don't want to understand. You have already been explained by the Director-General, by the Counsellor and by this Member who speaks to you both in full and in committee. In any case, because of the relevance of this natural enclave of the Brañas do Deo, in 2011 it was proposed to be included in the list of places of Community importance. And this proposal has been submitted, like any other project or proposal, to public information. And you know what happened? That he had a great social response -- maybe that they didn't know -- more than 3,400 claims, gentlemen. Yes, Mrs. Complaints. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u162	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u163	The fact that many of these allegations were found to have occurred led to the revision of the original proposal and that the file was not further processed. That's the reason and that's the reality. And the reality right now is that the Galician Union is also developing a new technical proposal for declaration of new LIC sites for turbid habitats -- of which we have already spoken -- with an area of between 20,000 and 30,000 hectares. This new proposal is being addressed in accordance with the European Union's guidelines. That the Brains of God are not included in the Natura 2000 Network does not mean that wind projects are being authorized in this area, quite the opposite. I think you've got the information distorted. From the Environmental Council, all those projects, uses or activities -- including those of the deployment of wind energy -- that could significantly affect or disturb habitats or species present in this complex of turbid and wetlands that make up the Brains of the God. All projects, Mrs. Complaints, have to undergo an adequate assessment of their impact on the place -- obviously, according to the current legislation --. Each and every one of the possible negative effects on any natural and landscaped value will be evaluated to determine their compatibility or not. That's not called "speculation," that's called -- it's called the whole life -- "procedure." The energy infrastructures and forest plantations, which are susceptible to environmental processing through the law of 2013, are no threat to the Deo's Brañas. They are an administrative procedure for planning, describing and evaluating appropriately according to each particular case the direct and indirect effects of a project with the following factors: human beings, fauna and flora, soil, water, air, climate, landscape, material goods or cultural heritage and the interaction of all these elements. It is currently the most appropriate tool to minimize the environmental effects of projects, to prevent, reduce or compensate for possible adverse effects on the environment. While you -- I insist -- you talk about speculation, we talk about the procedure, the procedure that will evaluate each project, that will evaluate every condition about the different environmental components. In the event that a minimum of appreciable condition is determined, there can of course be the exclusion of those infrastructures from those particular habitats -- especially those linked to water --. And so it also establishes the 2019 Natural Heritage Act, which speaks of a preventive protection regime with a view to avoiding the execution of all those actions contrary to the objectives of the law itself, provided it is deduced that a preserved area is significantly threatened by a disturbance factor that can alter that state. I insist, Madam, that is a procedure. And I want to keep a record, because, from both the German Government and the Environmental Council, you're doing your best in terms of both the regulations and the protection of the environment. The Greek Government is aware of the natural values that must be protected, and it has regard to these natural spaces. In this sense -- and I want to do a special fincapé, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Complaints -- I insist that processing is not the same as authorizing. And I want to do special fine-tuned in the proposals, which go into the Law of Measures, to reinforce a development that is always compatible with the natural environment. You, gentlemen, are against everything, of any project, even before its evaluation. And that's the problem they have. First you'll have to report before you authorize. And you're seeing distorted information. Among the excluded areas -- for their tranquility -- is the turbulence and wetlands complex called "The Weeks of the God." I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Environmental Council evaluates each project whether or not it's on the Natura Network. 42% of the territory is under some form of protection and we have a complete regulatory framework. Look, it seems you only protect, but Galician Union also protects. Let's see, open your eyes a little bit! That's why we also have European funds. We have 6.4 million for biosphere reserves, 2.6 for ecosystem recovery and restoration! Don't say, "Please!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh [[Strong murmurers.]] That's it! [[Protests.]] And with the distribution criterion, what's the matter? No, it's only worth what you say, but listen a little. [[Applause]] They're still dealing unilaterally on top. And I want to finish and make a request to Mrs. Complaints and the whole Nationalist Block, because Mr. Orange will listen to it later -- it's a shame, because I'd probably walk to more than one point --. Mrs. Complaints, please, I really beg your group to change the way they look at Galicia, to change those lenses they look at Galicia, which only allow them to see in negative, like those negative ones we had before in camera. He only sees Galicia in black and white, and I think he's proven enough that the Greeks and the Greeks are far from that vision of you. Because I think Galicia sees it with a little bit more color; at least -- yes, yes -- with that green, as you said, it's made in Galicia, but with a lot more colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u164	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u165	And, please, trust a little joke. Of course there's work to be done! -- I'm done --, of course it's left, it's always left. But there, in the confidence that we ask them, in the work that remains to be done, is where we hope to find them. And I'm done. This initiative that we are debating was the subject of an amendment by this group at its first point. It's a fine that is based on that work that is already being done. Mrs. Complaints, you just have to listen, your group just have to listen, what you're doing together in Galicia --...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u166	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u167	...to provide the Brains of the God with greater protection. We also announced that we do not agree with points (...) [[Intelligible.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been taking notes and paying a lot of attention to Mrs. Mouteira's intervention, which I can sum up as follows: Mrs. Mouteira says Galicia is very beautiful, beautiful, with birds, flowers, fields... all very green, in the same line as the environmental advisor. Of course, Galicia is very pretty, very clear. Together knows that literally. She is aware of the importance of the Brains of God. Well, it's less bad that Junta's a connoisseur! He says he has a lot of management tools and measures to conserve ecosystems, habitats, species... well, less bad, too. And he says Junta's doing a study. It would be rare if Junta wasn't doing a study or planning a strategy. But, of course, it was ten years after he was about to expand the Nature Network and that this space of the Brains of the God was processed to be included in the Nature Network. So, ten years after you're going to include the Brains of God in the Nature Network, you're doing a study. Well, that's great! And tell us that the natural net enlargement file is expired. Great, Mrs. Mouteira! It's expired now because you let it expire. Not me, I wasn't there. It was you. Ten years ago they dropped the file to expand the Natura Network. The ecological values of the Brains of the God are evident, I have already exposed them to Mrs. Complaints, and I will therefore not be excessively enough in them. But if I have to say that the Brains of the God are part of the set of natural spaces that the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño at his time included in his project of enlargement of the Natura 2000 Network, which was virtually finished when Mr. Feijóo arrived at the Board in 2009. It must be remembered that the Natura Network is the European Union's main biodiversity conservation tool, probably the most ambitious conservationist initiative in mankind's history. When Mr. Feijóo arrived in the presidency, he took his time with the Natura Network. But on December 20, 2011, Junta issued a press release collected that day by Europe Press in the following terms -- I quote literally -- "Galice will complete her Natura 2000 Network before the summer, which will go from 12% to 15% of the territory." This was December 20, 2011, not December 28, which would be the Day of the Innocent Saints. So, by the end of 2011, Junta announced the expansion of Spain's smallest Natura Network -- different -- which is the Galician one. And on January 2, 2012, the Official Journal of Galicia published an announcement from the Directorate General for Conservation of Nature, so it was agreed to submit to public participation the proposed extension of Galicia's Natura 2000 Network, literally pointing out that "it is urgent to initiate proceedings to complete the Natura 2000 network and thus comply with the European Commission's mandate". So a decade ago, the autonomous government of the PP, chaired by Mr Feijóo, acknowledged first that the Natura Network declared by Galicia at that time, which is exactly the same as today, had been considered insufficient by the European Union; and secondly, that, consequently, it was urgent to initiate proceedings to complete the Natura 2000 Network of Galicia -- urgent, they said --. And not only did he recognize that urgency, but he officially recognized it through publication in the Official Journal of Galicia. But, incredibly, after that announcement the bombo and plate of the expansion of the Natura Network and the announcement in the Official Journal of Galicia of the opening of that public exhibition period, enlargement was paralysed and, ten years after all those official recognitions and that announcement in the Official Journal of Galicia, nothing was done to expand our Natura Network despite being Spain's smallest. You've already told us why: because there were many allegations. Maybe they thought people wouldn't argue, because, of course, people don't argue when they tell them they're going to put a Natura net on them. So, as there was no expectation that there were allegations, you were scared and so... it's as if one night the counselor drank a lot of drinks, there was a start of ethical sincerity, it was said that it was very urgent the expansion of the Natura Network and the next morning, in the middle of a great hangover he chose to forget all that had happened the night before. This would be, to some extent, tolerable in the private sphere, but in the public domain it is manifestly inflammable, absolutely inflammable. And it would be scandalous if in Galicia we were not accustomed to arbitraryness and arrogance in the exercise of power by the Galician PP. A couple of years after that failed expansion of the Natura Network, in 2013, the Galician Natural History Society -- which seems to me to have some representative around here -- reported to the European Union that, since the inclusion of the Deo's Brañas in the 2011 enlargement proposal, the surface of spiders has been significantly reduced, with the elimination of mechanical methods of characteristic vegetation, replaced by eucalyptus. He added that the ripples also suffered intense degradation, so that the altered surface exceeds several hundred hectares. And that's what you say they're acquaintances, they work a lot, they're worried about, Galicia is very nice et cetera, and there are many figures of protection and conservation. Years later, in June 2017, this Parliament approved with the only vote in favour of the PP an initiative of the PP itself to start the study and documentation work to expand the Natura 2000 Network. Which is a laugh, because, five years after saying it was urgent and announcing the imminent enlargement of the Natura Network, the PP approves in this Parliament to start the study work for that enlargement, which is so much like recognizing that the 2011 announcement was a genuine coat of hair. Four years later, already this year 2021, in the official bulletin of this Parliament, the 20th May of this year, there is the agreement reached in the process of the initiative of my parliamentary group, the socialist, signed by myself in the following terms: "The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to complete the work for the extension and revision of the Natura Network, as well as to move forward in the adoption of the different management plans as soon as possible". This was approved in this Parliament six months ago by the PSdeG. And by the location of the commas -- those rotating doors of the thought that Cortazar spoke of -- what Parliament was doing in May of this year was urging the board to finish the work for enlargement, not in the shortest possible time, but at that moment, in May. It's been six months and we're still the same. You say they're doing a study so I don't know what. But with the smallest Natura Network in the state, the smallest of the state! -- 12.8% versus 27.5% of the state --, the Government of Greece assumes, yourself assumes, that we have 40% of our protected territory, which is absolute falsehood! because in that figure they are calculating not only the Natura Network but also the reserves of the Galician biosphere. But it turns out that biosphere reserves are not protected areas, since they have no specific protection regime -- which I put in your knowledge for if I didn't know --. That is, nowhere does it say that any activity or use allowed or not allowed can be developed in a biosphere reserve. In this initiative we have a perfect example, because the Brañas of the God are part of the reservation of the biosphere of the corunces and lands of the Mandeo. And despite that, they are completely degraded and are in the process of continuing to deteriorate until it is known that -- maybe even their disappearance as such --. And if little is part of a biosphere reserve, then the Brains of the God are wet. And wetlands -- now that it was the Climate Conference and that the advisor has taken a walk there -- are ecosystems that have a special ecological value because they act as support for an important biodiversity, they contribute decisively to the fight against climate change, they are essential to curb laughs and floods in times of growth, create soil, control erosion and recharge and purify groundwater aquifers and water. So let's recap. The Brains of the God are a wetland included in the expected expansion of the Nature Network, which is part of a biosphere reserve, where there are habitats of community interest, and there are endangered species. However, they find themselves in a situation of absolute deprotection and severe and progressive deterioration, recognized by the Council of Galicia itself in a report requested by the Council of Aranga in 2016, which said, "The forest activity, mainly the planting of eucalyptus, has caused a strong degradation and regression of most of the habitats of the Brañas do Deo." That's what you said four or five years ago, not me. And then it turns out a year later, in 2017, the advisor -- then Bea Mato, who is now on the other side, in Greenalia -- said they would include the Brains of God in their draft Green Infrastructure Strategy, which is also stopped -- we don't know until --. In short, while it occupies the Galician PP, the most likely future of any theoretically protected ecosystem in Galicia is the disappearance, the most likely future of any threatened species is extinction, the most likely future of any biosphere reserve, or even our Natura Network, is the accelerated conversion into eucalyptus plantation, and the most likely future of any wetlands is the desiccation. The most likely future of Galician nature with the People's Party is maturation in the midst of intense green propaganda that will try...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u171	-- finish -- convince us that the grey Galician PP is greener than any, while spaces like the Brains of the God are destroyed and gradually disappear from the full passivity of the Administration, which has the legal obligation to protect them and does not do so at all. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Queixas Zas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u173	Congratulations again, Mr. President. Well, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira, tell you repeatedly that the Government of the Galician Union has successive management tools and procedures, procedures, procedures... for let me tell you that they are absolutely useless and ineffective for the purpose for which they are supposed to be drawn up. And I'll tell you why. [[Applause]] This is the outline of the Brains of the God already converted into eucalyptal. You'll say if they've given permission to plant them or if they're illegal and they don't do anything, one by two. [[Mr. Queixas Zas shows a photograph from the stage.]] But they're already in the corner of the Brains of the God. [[Applause]] Go over there and see it like me. I don't lie. Our parliamentary group, the BNG and this honourable Member will always speak with knowledge of cause, and all they bring here will always be because it is opposed to society, to the society that lives in real Galicia and not in its own. Secure [[Applause]] You couldn't explain -- and it's normal, I would admit that I would feel a very complex situation in your role here -- why you didn't approve this extension of the Natura Network in twelve years, when the European Union continuously recriminalized it, when I imposed sanctions, and when we still have an announcement of a new sanction and investigation project on February 20, 2021. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can also answer that whenever you want, we're looking forward to knowing. [[Pause.]] [[Applause]] It is clear in his intervention that they have neither done nor will do, because all they have announced are absolutely empty plans for the future. What had to be done had to be done for twelve years and they weren't who. But they explain why, because we still don't have that answer. And, look -- especially for the audience that accompanies us and for all the Welsh and Welsh people who see us, in this case through the web, because we already know that public television is Welsh, I don't know why, you can't issue the full of this Parliament, who always say it's the house of the people -- the Group of the People's Party has tabled a amendment in the Budgets Accompanying Act that will cancel and invalidate that ban to remove a kilometre in the case of reconstitution of the already authorized wind parks. It's not going to have value, it's not going to have validity, that separation, that distance of a mile. So don't be fooled because the Greeks and the Greeks are going to take a surprise. [[Applause]] Following the amendments, you tell me that you have tabled an amendment. Of course, they want us to replace all our text -- which, of course, the affected people well know -- by the following: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to complete the studies necessary for the purpose of determining the habitats or species of community interest present in the Brains of the God with the objective of establishing a plan to preserve this enclave." They've been studying, studying and studying for twelve years. And they haven't been able to approve yet? His summons are over. [[Applause]] Excuse me, it seems like an indecency to present this to us, honestly. [[Applause]] That's right, if you understand it as an amendment of addition to our, most charming, really, real acceptance and addition. [[Applause]] Well, of course you've stayed in the past. Indeed, in this press release of 2011 to which the fellow, Mr. Aranguena, of the Socialist Group, referred to as the fellow -- who, of course, I appreciate all his support and understanding in recognition, which was clear and notorious, of what this space represents and this absolutely unequal natural environment --. There's something very important too -- because we were talking yesterday about budgets and so on --. Here too many times we talk about European funds and what they prejudice Galicia and others, and they don't explain why, but I'm going to give you a data. At present, the Natura Network priority action framework in Galicia is under way, a multi-annual framework for the years from 2021 to 2027. What's going on? Well, it happens that the People's Party is mortgageting Galicia. Why? Precisely for the highest degradation -- especially from our country's afforestation and reforestation --. And here's the picture, here are the values, the criteria for the distribution of 4 and 5, which correspond to the conservation and restoration of ecosystems and their diversity; and -- or 5 -- Conservation of coastal space and water resources. They're penalizing us, Galicia is -- in the distribution of funds -- here at the bottom of it -- with, indeed, just over 22 million, when the rest of the autonomous communities in the Spanish state have a lot more money. Pay attention to these duties because it's your duty, it's your duty! [[Applause]] They're penalizing Galicia for the abandonment of our territory and our natural environment. [[Applause]] That's why you have to answer. [[Applause]] And of course it defends society!, how will it not defend society? Greek society has a deep root in its land, has a deep respect for its land and the resources it gives us, for our land sustains us, and always sustains us in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u175	Get out of the drawer, please -- finished already, Mr. President --, the Natura Network enlargement project that has been hidden since 2011. And if not, they clearly explain why. Because, look, Galenergy and Greenalia, we already have quite clear that they look around this territory in a very interesting way, for their private and private interest, but not social and collective, not much less for natural spaces.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u176	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u177	What they have to tell us is who sees it then across the territory in a global way, who sees it through our natural environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u178	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u179	It should be the Galician People's Party's Union and it's not doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u181	Allow me, Mr. President, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u182	Don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u183	Now that we've finished this session, I ask you just one minute to read a few verses.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u184	No, no, no, no. Mrs. Complaints, look, look for a moment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u185	I'm going to read us the same way, because it's a tribute to the earth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u186	But, look at this moment, Mrs. Complaints. Look, you're the first one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u187	It's a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u188	But allow me!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u189	Darío Xohán Cabana wrote a poem of love to the earth that says:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u190	Look, Mrs. Complaints...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u191	... "You will sell..."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints. [[Mrs. Queixas Zas utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much for your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-23-DSPG058.u193	Mrs. Complainers, you're not in the use of the word. [[Mrs. Queixas Zas continues her speech, which she no longer perceives.]] You're not in the use of the word, Mrs. Complaints! That's good! [[Mrs. Queixas Zas continues her speech, which she no longer perceives.]] Mrs. Complaints, I'll call you by order. [[Mrs. Queixas Zas continues her speech, which she no longer perceives.]] Mrs. Complaints, call her in order! [[Mrs. Queixas Zas continues her speech, which she no longer perceives.]] That's it. That's good. Mrs. Complainers, you're not in the use of the word. It's called to order now, for once. [[Applause]] Thank you for being so understanding and spent so much time in both interventions, in the first and more in the second. [[Applause]] At the end of today's points, we suspended the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
