ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The next item is the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament, which is why we are not reading it. Before beginning with the agenda, I invite all your lords to keep a minute of silence in memory of our companion, Isura Abelaira Rodríguez, Member of Parliament of Galicia and late last week, whom we all remember as a good and generous Welshman. We'll keep a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u2	Thank you. We continue, now yes, with the agenda, with point one of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor of the Sea, on his own request, by the situation created by the appeal brought by the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Reto in respect of the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation for the period 2021-2023
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u3	Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I compare today in this House, my own request, to account for a situation that endangers the continuity of the sustainable work that has been carried out for decades by people who in our autonomous community exercise shellfish. Of course, on other occasions Galicia and this activity have faced situations of threat because of imposing natural causes, or circumstances brought by the hand of the man most associated with more or less fortunate or unexpected accidents. Now, in this case, we can't say that the situation arises spontaneously or that it's not avoidable, and even it has a variable course without much more effort to apply to be corrected than the decision of the people of the administration should ensure for the well-being and future of the people of the sea and not for putting them in a trap. To see how that wrong course can lead forward to the foundation of the activity of this sector, I must allow myself to make a contextualization to see where the frameworks of the normative influence of this work are as intrinsically linked to Galicia as it is to the Marishes. Forty-three years ago, the Spanish Constitution was passed by the Courts and ratified by the Spanish people in referendum on December 6, 1978. Article 148.1.11 of the Spanish Constitution includes the powers that the autonomous communities may assume in various matters; it specifically empowers Galicia to assume exclusive powers in the field of fishing in inland waters, shellfish and aquaculture. Forty years ago, on 6 April 1981, it approved the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia, which materialized this constitutional power by collecting in Article 27.15 of our Autonomy Statute, exclusive competence in fisheries in rivers and other inland waters, shellfish and aquaculture. With regard to the competence framework of the State laid down in Article 149.1.19 of the Maritime Fisheries Constitution, without prejudice to the powers conferred on the autonomous communities in the management of the sector, Article 28(5) of the Statute provides that Galicia is competent for the legislative development and for the execution of State legislation in accordance with those established in the field of sector management. Thirty-nine years ago Royal Decree 33/18 of 24 July 1982 on the transfer of State administration functions and services to Galicia in the field of agriculture and fisheries, which lists, among the competences assumed by Galicia, fisheries in inland waters, shellfish and aquaculture. Three years later, in 1985, two laws were passed regulating fishing extractive activity and marine farming activities in our autonomous community, which took place in 1993 in Law 6/1993 of 11 May 1993 on Galician fisheries. With this development -- and it's not my reflection, but that of President González Laxe himself -- Galicia was the state's autonomous pioneering community to adopt the first rules on marine crops, and then the rest of the autonomous communities followed him. Fifteen years later, in 2008, Law 11/2008, of 3 December, of Galicia, amended by Law 6/2009, of 11 December, was approved, which provides that the policy of the autonomous administration will have, in relation to the conservation and management of fisheries and marine resources, among other objectives, the establishment and regulation of measures directed at the conservation, management and exploitation of sustainable and rational marine resources. The conservation and management measures under this law include the adoption -- after hearing the affected sector -- of management plans defined as regulatory measures of fishing and seafood activity. The model of use of the seafood we have today, through the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation, began in 1992 by Decree 59/1992 of 6 March, so it regulates the extraction of marine species and the collection of algae in the waters of Galicia. Later, in 1993, decree 4/23 of 17 December 1994 was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 20 January 1994 and the current legislation on shellfishing, seaweed extraction and cultivation is re-founded. Decree 153/2019 of 21 November 2019 regulates the regime for the conservation and exploitation of marine resources and algae, establishes that the extraction of general resources will be subject to the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation, approved on a triennial basis by the Council of the Sea, and regulates management plans. It is necessary here to refer to the normative definition of the Maritime Management Plan in a preliminary position of the considerations of this council and of the Welsh marine sector and to verify that this is an instrument establishing a multi-annual framework for measures to regulate marine activity aimed at developing a sustainable exploitation of resources that will take account of social, environmental and economic aspects. The plans shall regulate technical measures, timetables, regimes of the use of seafood and, where appropriate, limitations of catches, capacity and fishing effort, being the general objective of the Marisqueo Management Plan the sustainability of seafood activity, both at the biological and ecological levels of the populations exploited and their habitats, and both in the social and economic spheres of people related to the exploitation of resources. For the presentation, content and procedure of approval, it shall be indicated that the proposals of the management plans shall be submitted by the entities concerned to the Directorate-General responsible for shellfishing and that this direction, after hearing the stakeholders, shall determine the regulatory measures of the marine activity and, where appropriate, shall propose the approval of the plan, which shall be carried out by order of the competent council on shellfishing. It should be noted that this process, mutatis mutandis, has been implemented since 1992 to date, and orders have been published every year in the Official Journal of Galicia. I mean, the German Government has been processing and approving plans for marine exploitation for twenty-nine years without the fact that there has been no problem or request by any of the governments, or of any of the ministries, of any preliminary reports on this matter. Nor did the Central Government take any action against the different rules, laws, decrees and orders governing the formulation of these plans. On 31 December 2020, the Official Journal of Galicia published the Order of 21 December 2020 approving the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation for the Triennial 2021-2023. The Sea Council has thus approved a total of 94 general resource management plans for the next three years, which will define the marine activity of fishermen's confrries and of the partner entities of the Galician sector throughout this period. But -- and going to the process that worries us -- something really changed this year. What we have never been sued in twenty-nine years was demanded in this one, even without justification or support for interpretation to do so, because nothing has changed in the regulations. In mid-February we were aware of the referral by the General Technical Secretariat of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Retreement, of a prior requirement against the Order of 21 December 2020 for the approval of the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation for the triennium 2021-2023, a document in which we were called upon to repeal that rule. Moreover, in accordance with Article 44.3 of Law 29/1998 of 13 July 1998, on the assumption that within the month following the receipt of the previous requirement, this autonomous administration would not have replied in accordance with the said provision, it would be brought before the relevant litigation-administrative remedy to urge the judicial annulment of that order. I mean, no requests for clarifications or allegations about interpretation; only one mandate: "give you and give me the reason in writing". However, and in view of this imposition, the Council of the Sea, having examined the claims on which the requirement was based, proceeded to give an answer within the prescribed time limit, pointing out that the approval of this order on the basis of its content and competence does not require any previous report in a preceptive and binding manner from the Directorate-General of Coasts and the Sea, as stated by the Ministry. It is clear to this board that there are no maritime exploitation zones, no licensing or concession schemes in order, so there is no need for the report on the occupation of the maritime-terrestrial public domain. The only thing it does is to mark a set of rules and guidelines for regulating and programming the sustainable exploitation of marine resources in different natural banks. In other words, Galicia explained the inconceivability of this request from the Central Government and clarified, in response to the requirement prior to the filing of the appeal, that the order in which the plan was approved does not grant maritime areas of exploitation or under authorisation or concession, so the report on the occupation of public maritime-terrestrial domain is not necessary. This requirement is illogical, since the plan for the years 2021-2023 follows the same line as the previous annual plans, for those who did not require that report and who were in no case visited by the State Executive. The only thing that has changed is that Galicia has adopted Decree 153/2019 of 21 November which adapts the regulation of this activity to the current situation of the sector and improves efficiency in the resolution of procedures related to the development and development of the activities of the marine exploitation plans. The only novelty that emerges from this decree is to establish co-governance of marine resources with biological, ecological and socio-economic objectives at the age of three, because it is considered a suitable period to observe the evolution and possible changes of trend in resources and thus facilitate the management of stakeholders. Since we did not give him the reason for his exigency and interference, the Central Government went to the courts to take the general plan for understanding that before his approval the Directorate General of Coasts and the Sea should issue a binding preceptive report on the basis of Article 112 of Law 22/1988, of July 28, on the back, and of Article 30 of Law 11/2008, of the 3 December, of Galician fishing. Since then, the Central Government has ignored the Panel's allegations that at the end of April it received the office announcing the appeal against the General Plan and requesting the referral of the order file to its approval. In view of this situation, the Board published the Resolution of 3 May 2021 of the General Technical Secretariat of the Council of the Sea, so that the referral of the administrative file relating to the litigation-administrative appeal 4053/2021 brought against the Order of 21 December 2020 before the Dispute Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia is agreed. The aim of this resolution is to facilitate the possibility that confrereries, federations or associations may appear as a party to the cars within the specified time limit. In addition, with this step to Together, the strict compliance with the legislation and its willingness to continue to defend the interests of the sector to the end, in response to this resource that is supposed to play with its future and put it at risk. In this respect, we know the will and decision of many confrereries and their federations to figure themselves as co-ordered in the aforementioned litigation by the view that this appeal submitted by the Ministry may have very serious consequences for the maritime sector. Certainly, our assessment and position in this matter is part of a clear discrepancy with the Ministry's opinion and interpretation, with whom neither we nor the sector agree either in the background or in the form of the matter. At the bottom of the question we disagree and have to point out two clear elements: if nothing has changed in the regulation of protection and management of the maritime-terrestrial public domain and in the management of the maritime management, the duration of the plans has simply been extended, why do they now ask for the report? It's a state-backed law that has been in force for thirty-three years and we've been drafting and approving plans for marine exploitation, and now for the first time they're asking for such a report. If we are not talking about granting concessions or authorizations and neither in the decree that covers the plans nor in the order that approves them, why are they now asking for this report? In the form of the question we also disagree, and we have to point out two clear elements: this is a process carried out without dialogue and fruit of an attempt at taxation that blows the autonomic competence framework; it is a very serious fact because it has no support for any that leaves room for dubious interpretation, as demonstrated by the previous 29 general plans approved without damage. This is a process that lacks sensitivity and will on the part of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition with the sea-industry chain, overlooking its reality once again, and in this case, puts into the fabric of decades of responsible management history and co-governance of this activity. Even at the meeting between President Núñez Feijóo and Minister Teresa Ribera of February this matter was pointed out, and at that time the minister pointed out his ignorance about this fact and the conduct of inquiries about it, taking into account its importance and willingness to resolve this discrepancy directly and without prejudice to the Greek seafood sector. Unfortunately, the only answer we received from the Ministry was the appeal; that is, no interest and no willingness to resolve the matter. But the important thing and the key to this process are not the German Government and the Central Government, the important thing is the Greek shellfish. This judicial battle could have very negative consequences for the sector, since the possibility of a prior suspension or a derogation from the General Plan would result in a legal vacuum in the management and exploitation of marine resources by leaving the sector without the rules that guarantee an orderly, sustainable and environmentally friendly activity. If the effective plan were to be annulled -- a political decision by the central government of high gravity based on an evident invasion by the Spanish Government of the exclusive competences of Galicia -- this step would lead to the work of the shipping confrries and associations of the sector, which participated in the design and development of the 94 plans of management that are currently included in the General Plan. In short, if the General Plan had been annulled, judicial uncertainty would be eliminated from over 8,700 people, as well as from the organization of work itself and its proper management in terms of environmental, social and economic sustainability. In this sense, the Union strictly complies with the legislation and will continue to defend the interests of the sector to the end, facing a resource that is supposed to play with the future and put it at risk. We know which side we are and what interests we defend, those in the sector. Since then, in view of the importance of this process and the renewed attack that for the marine-fishing sector of the country, the Government of Greece will develop the necessary actions to defend the interests of the sector to the last instance and a model of management with decades of history based on the co-management of resources, which has demonstrated its effectiveness and effectiveness. From here I thank the People's Group and the Galego Nationalist Block for their willingness to defend the Italian Marquesian, and I ask that it be the whole House to join this position, because it is not a political issue, but an imposition lacking sense and sustenance. In short, this is not a war between the Central Government and the Greek Government; this is a war by the Central Government against the Greek Sea sector. As our anthem well says, "They don't understand us, no!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u5	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counsellor, you've been here 21 minutes rallying against the state government, because you're here to make war and not look for solutions. So, since you've done all this, we're going to the subject, which is very easy. Look, there are three questions: first, asking for the transfer of competences to really be exclusive -- you voted against -- second, you present a role, you stop taking hostages to the whole sector for not presenting a role, you asked them twice in six months; and third -- and it's relevant because you say here this is something that you want the House agreement, and this has already been voted on last week, you voted in this Parliament -- to ask the State to withdraw the resource. [[Applause]] You know what you guys did? They voted against it. [[Applause]] Counsellor, we are not going to be participants in a fair that you are doing with this; we have a lot of respect for this Parliament. You explain why they voted against transferring the powers, presenting the complete file and asking the State to withdraw the appeal. And the rest is a rally where we're not going to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u7	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, very good morning. Counsellor, the mortality from seafood on the beaches and the situation in which there are many confrereries and hundreds of seafarers and seafarers; the affect of the shellfish and the vaccination of sailors, as well as the show they have set up with this theme; the regulation of control and its impact on the fishing sector and also on the seafood; the Brexit Adjustment Reserve Fund and the joke that would mean for Galicia to remain as it is; the marine wind, the theme which has already been fully delegated to the Industry Council; the new FEMP or the projects for the next Generation funds for the sector, which nobody knows what they will do; the final negotiation of quotas with the United Kingdom... Finally, Counsellor, we would already like all these issues -- and many others -- merited their attention, merited the convening of the sector the following day, as he did with this issue, and they would also deserve their presence today in this House. [[Applause]] But no, Counselor, you chose this one. This is the only object of your appearance in this House for three months. It seems to us that much or more important than you, but it's also so important for the future of the sector than any of those I've just mentioned and that it seems to you that they do not have the same interest. Or probably on this subject is where you feel more comfortable because, in the end, it is to have more reason to come here and continue with this partisan policy and confrontation with the Government of the State that you like so much, but which, however, is so tired and so extremely sterile. Anyway, it's legitimate, Counselor, but you'll recognize that it's also quite embarrassing. And in addition, it's not credible. Yes, very little credential, because the group you belong to -- and therefore you -- have just said no -- absolutely not -- last week to an initiative that the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Group have negotiated in the Committee on Fisheries and asked for their support, firstly, for -- I read textually what was the agreement we reached by the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego -- "to open a dialogue between the autonomous and state administrations in order to resolve possible conflicts of competence and administrative in the matter, starting from the immediate withdrawal of the appeal brought by the Ministry of Ecological Transition against the Order by which the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation is approved for the triennium 2021-2023". You, Counselor, said no; they said no, therefore, to withdraw this resource and to open a sensible and thorough dialogue with the State to resolve this conflict. This initiative also called for the activation of the Committee on Transfers to initiate the procedure for the transfer of pending powers to Galicia, in particular as agreed by the plenary in March, the management of the public domain of the maritime-terrestrial sector and the management of the fishing and oceanographic research sector. You, Counselor, voted no, even against what this House unanimously agreed to in the middle of March. And the initiative had a third point that advocated -- I read textually -- "to make public the complete dossier on the Maritime Exploitation Plan." You, Mrs. Quintana, voted against. Do you have anything to hide? As he explained here today, making the case public is a sign of transparency and, indeed, of wanting to go forward in the face of conflict resolution. Therefore, Counsellor, your report remains victimism and lacks decision-making and conviction in your own possibilities. You fail to believe that a country that has exclusive competences must exercise them firmly and without subordination, and that it must lick them in the face of any possible attack. And, above all, you must work to conquer others and have your own ability to decide on matters that matter to us and affect us directly, as this is the case. Your Honor, we, the Galego Nationalist Block, were the first to raise our voice against this scourge and this direct attack by the Ministry against that established in our Statute of Self-Government as exclusive competence. We, the Galician Nationalist Block, were the first here and in Madrid. And, of course, we have not seen that you, apart from the press headlines, have taken any initiative to defend your own powers to the Congress of Deputies by means of the German Members and Members who have the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies. Therefore, Counselor, your account is not credible; it is not credible. We agree, Your Honor, that through the maritime exploitation plans -- that they have begun to develop, as you said, in 1993 and that they have the participation of the confrereries and the groups in the sector -- there are no concessions, but an activity that actually occupies directly more than 8,000 people in our country. Exploitation plans are the rules of play and do not contravene either the Law of Back or the very law of Greek fishing, which is what the Ministry itself refers to. And therefore, from our point of view, they don't need any, absolutely no, preceptive state report. And, of course, asking for it now is, quite simply and clearly, an inadmissible interference to our understanding. We agree, Counselor. And that's why our account is the same here as in Madrid, so we've asked for the withdrawal of the resource here and in Madrid, so we've been asking the Board for twelve years not to be incompetent in its own competences, in which the Statute has granted it as exclusive. Twelve years old, Counselor, empty, twelve years old in which the Board has been consensing continuous failures of respect for the current competitive framework. This is not the first time that we have to stop the invasion of powers and the attempt to recentralise, which is taken from the governments of Madrid, from all the governments of Madrid, starting with the People's Party. For us this matter is of utmost importance, so we are consistent between what we say and what we do. And our aspiration is that the others -- especially the Government of Greece -- will do so too. And I say that we are consistent between what we say and what we do because what we say through a parliamentary initiative in the Committee on Fisheries last week we move it to all the chambers -- to the Congress of the Deputies and to it -- and we continue to think the same. We don't want to turn this matter into another sterile battle between the German Government and the State Government. That is why, Counsellor, we have strongly asked you and the Government of the People's Party to defend our exclusive competences and, above all, to claim what we are. Much better goes to all of us and, of course, to the fishing sector, which, of course, is quite lacking that they look for it, both the German Government and the Government of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u10	Good morning. Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. Once again you come here to explain the position of the Galician Union, which is clear and concrete, concise, and, as always, with total transparency. That is, you, on behalf of the Greek Government, present before Parliament the situation and position of the Galician Union in the face of interference and discrepancy -- as you have said -- not in the face of a doubt about who has the competences, or to try to open a dialogue with a government that has actually been directly ingested into Galician competences and directly attacked the fishing sector. I'm going to explain to Mr. Torrado that what you did here today was you, because you in Commission 8th got what you wanted with that political trilerism you practice, and then today you have nothing to say. You do not know and cannot, because you never defend the fishing sector; therefore, you have nothing to say to defend the fishing sector, because again you are on the side of Sánchez, on the side of Teresa Ribera and not on the side of Galicia. That's again the position of the PSdEG, which we're already very used to. And besides the BNG made a cardboard. The BNG made a placard because the BNG had the opportunity for this Parliament to pass its initiative as it was drafted, without a "but," and said no. They preferred, both the Socialist Party and the Bloc, to make an agreement to wash the face of the Socialist Party of Galicia before voting on the initiatives they themselves presented, which they themselves presented! [[Applause]] I will explain correctly what happened in Commission 8th, Mr Torrado. We came up with two initiatives on the same subject, with an inclusive debate. We arrived with a two-point initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, which we clearly said we were willing to support them as they were drafted, and with a Socialist Party initiative at which one point he was talking about the withdrawal of the resource and at another point he was talking about the necessity of the pre-emptive report, to which we said, "That we are not going to vote because this pre-emptive report is not needed." Mr. Torrado has been talking to the Galego Nationalist Block and they have tried to recast the two PNCs without amendment. And I don't know, I'll also have to ask the lawyers if that's possible, because that's not a transaction with an amendment, but it's to recast two NCPs to avoid voting for the Galician Socialist Party to claim that report. Because the essay on your initiative, Mr. Torrado, literally -- I'll read it, because I have it here --. Where do I have the initiative? [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera tries to read a document.]] Well, I have the initiative here, but without the resolution, and I was like, "to present the preceptive report as soon as possible in order to continue the procedure provided for in the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation 2021-2023." [[Pause.]] I mean, you in your initiative already make it clear that without that report it would not be possible to follow the General Plan. So what's done? A three-point agreement with the Galego Nationalist Block -- which once again was completely deceived by the Socialist Party; or not, or did it really, by the way, which is the usual one, because we already know that you have many pacts ahead of you in deputies, in councils and the government's own pact, and surely they must always reach agreements-- But what really avoided the Socialist Party of Galicia was that we voted on that point which they presented by register in this Parliament, because they are again on the side of Sánchez and on the side of Teresa Ribera and not on the side of Galicia. Because the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block, as drafted, would be approved on that commission, but you decided to make that agreement with three points. And I'm going to read the three points -- points that, in addition, then didn't allow them to vote separately. Because we agreed... you know exactly what the position of the debate is, what the position of the Union is, and what the position of the People's Parliamentary Group is, and they didn't let it vote on points. The first was to activate the Committee on Transfers with the aim of initiating the procedure for the transfer of pending powers to Galicia, as agreed by Parliament's plenary in March. We wouldn't have a problem supporting him, and so we pointed out. Furthermore, I insist that this is not a competition debate. You -- I insist, as always, on that political trilerism they practice -- tried to put the theme of competences to conceal, but we're actually in the face of an interference by the Spanish Government. We're right in front of an interference, and what they have to do is remove that resource and withdraw that pre-emptive report request, because it's not necessary. Well, the second was to make public the complete dossier on the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation. I'd already asked the Socialist Party itself in the PNC for it to get the Block to write that point too, when I had a very correct PNC -- as I say, very right -- But again he got hired by the Socialist Party -- making a paperboard -- putting this same point in the deal. We had no problem approving that point either, but it is worth remembering that you have the possibility to request it through Article 9. And finally, to open a dialogue between the autonomous and state administrations with a view to resolving potential competition conflicts in this area, starting from the immediate withdrawal of the appeal brought against the Order of 21 December 2020, so as to approve the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation 2021-2023. This is what is incoherent in this request. Why do you insist on opening an administration dialogue when it was really a direct attack? It's a direct attack, as the advisor said, not to the Galician Union, but to the fishing sector. This proposal is therefore an attempt to bleach the image of the PSOE in this matter, of the Socialist Party of Galicia, which did not even want to vote on its own initiative. Which means this is completely clear. We have already introduced an initiative of this majority parliamentary group, which is going to be approved -- we hope that unanimously, but it will be approved. And you, gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, lost the opportunity to approve your initiative as drafted. At least 10 votes in that commission would be passed, but you refused to do so. The position of the Socialist Party of Galicia in this matter is always mimetic with the Central Government, Counsellor. Mr. Torrado, with great skill, has already tried to avoid voting on that point. So what he did was to recast the two PNCs into an agreement without presenting such amendment. We haven't even tabled a previous amendment. So we weren't willing to enter that game of political trilerism, that glove between the Bloc and the Socialist Party, so that the majority group of the House and the Government of the Galician Union themselves -- which has a very clear position -- had to enter that vote. So you're the one who's making the rally and you're the one who's doing the policy of the pact, in which, in fact, they're defending the Socialist Party and the Block that the fishing sector itself, that the seafood plan itself, which are really the ones who need it to go ahead and that it's not allowed and that this pre-emptive report is not requested. This is one more step from the list of aggravatings and attacks of the Ministry of Ecological Transition against Galicia and its maritime-fishing sector -- the Ministry of "Traision" Ecological -- Mr. Torrado spoke for a minute, spoke for a minute today, or two minutes. He just came here to explain how his play worked out, but he didn't speak anything in defense of the fishing sector. He has nothing to say, because they never defend him. They're always on the side of Teresa Ribera and on the side of Sánchez. In the exchange of the Law of Back we've already seen how, through the back door, after trying it with the Rules of Back, if they want to close the concessional deadlines, increase the discretionality of the concession holders' continuity... that's all, goes together, has a whole coherence of the Socialist Party, a coherence of direct attack to the fisheries sector. They close Galicia, they close the Galician coast, they close the fishing sector. Directly that's your intention. About the ban on the marketing of marrakesh, they carry the marrakish... Ah! and another thing too, that I say to the Marrakesh and also in this case, in this very theme of the March Plan: the role. They're always with the papers, which we put in a paper. Do you think that's how we solve all the problems, presenting a role? Tell the long-lived sector, the brown-haired sector, how many papers you've been asked to do, how much bureaucracy you have to set in motion so that you can market the brown-haired sector! And they're still with the problem on the table. So there's no solution, it's a direct attack on the fishing sector. With the proposal of the Plan of Spain 2050, foundations and proposals for a long-term national strategy, I still remember when Mrs Toja joined us because we said we were thinking and making a plan for 2030. And now it turns out that they plan for 2050 in Spain which is a fishing line, I believe -- not even -- "To tackle the transformation of sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport and tourism with determination and consistency in order to reduce their high environmental impact and achieve greater sustainability in them." That's all they say -- if this is fishing -- in that 2050 report at the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Government of Spain. Proposal for an eagle fishing limitation. Once again, the same ministry aims to include this species in the list of wild species of special protection regimes, against the -- again -- criterion of autonomous communities in Cantabria and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. So, a fisheries minister who looks to one side and a transitional minister -- "Traision" -- Ecological that does nothing but put many obstacles and many problems into the fishing sector and Galicia. All these matters have two common denominators: total absence of will and understanding by the Ministry, understanding of what Galicia is, what is the fishing sector, what can be done, and total absence of allies and support in this autonomous community by the PSdeG. And we clearly see it today with the intervention -- or the non-intervention -- of the Socialist Party of Galicia, because it has a paperboard; it has to defend here a government that really has all the blame that we're talking about today and that the fishing sector has a lot of problems on the table to work, lots of them, and a very complicated prospect of hope for the future. I'm going to finish by now, because there's still more problems, arising from the issuance of Coastal and State reports. Then I do need time to explain the real aggravation of the Government to Galicia and I need time to defend the fishing sector, although for that I already have here the Counsellor, to whom I thank again for her presence, her transparency and her action and activity, the foot of the river, with the sector and the confrereries, so that they can solve this disguise and this problem, in which only one person named Sánchez lied, and another accomplice, Teresa Ribera, with complicity, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u12	...of the PSdeG and the Nationalist Block Galego. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica, the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, the truth is that you don't know if I'm sorry or terrified, because to say here that I'm here to give a rally against the central government is to see that you've been very little attentive to everything I've explained and that the only thing I've brought was a model phrase to pull out a headline. [[Murmurs.]] Because I think my entire intervention has been based on legal arguments that defend the capacity of the Galician Union, with exclusive competences, to regulate an activity as important in our coastal areas as it is the shellfish. [[Applause]] It was the only thing I did during my exposure. It is true that I have to say that if all the laws, the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government, the Galician Fisheries Act, and all the decrees that develop the activity give us that competence, and the Central Government is committed to making an appeal, I will have to say that. Or is that understood as a political rally? Who do you want to fool? How can you come here, at the headquarters of the Galician Parliament, to say the same thing you're saying to the media: that Junta is handing over a little paper? What's "a little paper"? To make a report, to request a preliminary and binding report, it would be that the Autonomous Community of Galicia renounces its exclusive powers over shellfish, and I am not going to do so. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not a little paper, it's an express renunciation of the powers given to us by the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government. [[Applause]] And if not, I ask you one thing: if you haven't been attentive to the exposure I gave you, take the State Backs Act, read article 122 and tell me which of the sections of article 122 of the State's Backs Law says that the Council of the Sea or the Council of Galicia has to ask for a preceptive and binding report to regulate the activity of the seafood, for which we have exclusive powers. The truth is that you have to play a placard, because you have to defend the action the central government is doing against the interests of the marine-fishing sector, but you're used to it, because we've already lived it when it was the topic of the Bivalve Mollus Control Laboratory. Do you remember that? It hasn't been colored yet today, because you blamed us for not getting anything and, when your minister arrived and put in value what we'll get for the community reference lab, you stayed quiet, and you didn't get colored. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela nods with his head.]] Mrs Pérez came here to get me a lot of issues: mortality, vaccination, regulation and control, the Brexit Reserve Fund, the marine wind, quota trading with the United Kingdom... what do you have to say about all this? Because in the media well that he said, regarding vaccination, Galicia doesn't vaccinate sailors because he doesn't want to. And what do you have to say about Mrs. Health Minister's statements when I said we were going to vaccinate the sailors, who said, "The vaccination criteria do not define them, but the Public Health Commission. Do I have a group of technical advisers who do not consider sailors to deserve special treatment in immunization? Who do I listen to, to the health minister, to Mr. Torrado, to Mr. Caballero, who walked through all the ports saying that Junta didn't vaccinate because he didn't want to? Lower your head, for the truth is you have to lower your head; but you have to lower your head in front of the sector, Mr. Torrado. That's how you can't go. Here we're playing that they're still saying that the Central Government wants to take over the powers of the Galician Union. We are an example community throughout the European Union, both in fisheries and in shellfish and aquaculture. Our shellfish management model asks about it from the European Union. For the defence of what we are doing in aquaculture last week there was a scientific and technical committee to define aquaculture criteria throughout the European Union. And who was invited to participate in that debate by the European Commission? Counselor of the Sea. There was no one in the central government. What do we have to say about the entire process of the vault? Who defended the fishing sector, as much as Mrs. Pérez comes here today to face I don't know how many things? We asked for help for the fleet that was active. Only the Galician Union, with its own funds, gave those help. We asked for help for the confrereries, and the central government understood that only for producer organizations. Together, we've been helping the confrereries, and we've been asking for help for the walkers. In the European Parliament, the groups that weren't from the People's Party -- I'm not going to say what they were -- they said that for the Marishers it was enough with Sure, that they didn't need any special help. Where do you defend the sector?, in the street?, in the ports? Tell people the truth. Say what they're doing with this sector. Did we start taking out the list of comparative aggravatings? Starting with the ravine, as Mrs. Teresa Egerique said. The long-range fleet and surface -- a fleet that never had any problems -- this year and last year, precisely -- a year complicated by the coward -- we put another problem to him. There is an international organization, the ICCAT, which, with scientific advice, defines the fishing capabilities that each country has. They give us some fishing opportunities, the Ministry of Fisheries gives us permission to fish for what the ICCAT has given us, and the Ministry of Ecological Transition says that we cannot market that fish. Oh, we can fish it, but we can't market it. We're doing great! Anguy fishing. Galicia has been modeling an eagle management plan since 1993. It's a species that we have here, well preserved, that every year it's kept on the tops of sustainable maximum yield, and now the Ministry of Ecological Transition also wants to put the eagle on the list of species to protect. It's all conservatism, yes, yes, and let's keep it that way. [[Murmurs.]] They say I'm going back with the sea wind; never. With the marine wind, we are strictly doing what the EU directives recommend: firstly, to create an observatory with the sector, with the technicians, to analyse the possible impacts that can have this type of facility and that do not prejudice fishing activity. I think we've already defended it here, that we've explained it, and the sector is fully aware of it since minute one. Marine wind activity in Galicia will not develop in some way affect fishing and seafood activity. That's the red line you're getting. I don't know what others are going to defend, but we are clear what we are going to defend from the Galician Union: to do all the studies that we are sent to the European Union, to analyze all the impacts that the European Union is sending us, and, if it is possible to develop an economic activity compatible with the fishing and seafood activity, it will be done. If it's not compatible with fishing and seafood, it won't be done, there's no doubt about it. The truth is, what brings me here today is the concern, because with a model of management that we have, established in co-governance with the sector, which brings us so many good results, we understand that it is incoherent that now the Ecological "Intransition" Minister is coming to be looked at in this sector as well. We've had a lot of things to adapt, not to get into fights. You know that we approved every year some projects to the confrereries to increase the production of seafood banks and that there are regenerating, cleaning, transfer, arid additions... these were the works that have been done for the rest of your life. For three years ago, the Ministry of Ecological Transition began asking the confrereries that we approved these projects to submit the request for a preceptive and binding report to see "the impact these works could have on the marine environment." Can anyone imagine that a farmer to whom we gave help in plowing, in order to sow potatoes had to ask for a preceptive and binding report to the corresponding ministry? Well, here's what's going on. [[Murmurs.]] We had to modify the aid orders and move them to be multi-yearly because the Ministry only took a year to give that report in order to do those acts. Can any of you imagine what it would be like to have a one-year operating plan waiting for the Ministry to say whether or not it can approve that exploitation plan? But what little paper are we talking about here? Are we talking about the fact that there is empathy for this sector or that there is a central government's political will to end the mar-industry chain sector? Because all the steps they've taken since they got to the Government go in the same line and direction. They started with the Law on their backs. It was the first kick. When they realized that they couldn't change the Law on the Back with a regulation, they said, let's go back and we'll change the Law on the Back, but it'll be done with the consensus of the sector, with the autonomous communities, we'll change the law... and while we're all concerned about solving the issue of pandemic and cowardice, the Ministry of Ecological Transition is presenting itself in Congress with a preliminary draft law on climate change and putting an article on us -- that was Article 18; now it's Article 20 -- where even more or less they cut the concessional period of all the industries that are installed in a maritime-terrestrial public domain zone. You say... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no; it's nothing; it's nothing. Like a friend of mine said, "It was nothing of his eye, and we have it in our hand." According to the 2013 Back Act, all companies that were already located in the maritime-terrestrial public domain area, at the end of their concessional period, could have an extraordinary extension of seventy-five years. Yes or no? Am I telling a lie? With this new law that you just passed, that possibility is cut off. The concessional period shall not allow extraordinary extensions. Of course, then very curious cases happen in this country, like that of Thenaissie Provote. They say: Let the board look for an investor! Oh, of course! We're looking for an investor, but who wants to invest in a company that doesn't know how many years are left for? Or are we stupid here? Or is it that when we defend things we defend them because we do or do not? And now they say -- to get along with society, because here we're trying to put on sustainable cartels -- that installations in the public maritime-terrestrial domain can affect erosion, they can affect climate change, I don't know how many things. And the minister, by letter, to the environmental advisor and me what she's going to say to us is: I understand that seventy-five years are already many, and that the good is to favour competitive competition. So it's not that the industries that are installed today are doing any harm, that we want to get it out of the industries, those that are exploiting it today, to give it to others, I don't know who. That's the summary of what we're living for. And we from Galicia don't worry or change what the central government is doing. We are working to defend the interests of the maritime-fishing sector, because, fortunately or unfortunately, the only ones we are supporting and defending the sector are the Government of Galicia. And I can say that with great honor. [[Applause]] I object to you, Mr. Torrado, for you to come here and say a single initiative that the central government has made in defending the interests of the maritime-fishing sector. I beg you to have a little respect for the more than 8,700 people who are currently concerned about the future of their exploitation plans and to remove the fact that the Board delivers a "paper." You accuse me of not presenting the file here. As the honourable Member has well said: I could ask for Article 9 and I would give it to you, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm not... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll get him to the House right now. If I have no problem! I have no problem getting that file to them, but I'll also send them back from 2006, 2007 and 2008, so that they can see what documentation they were carrying at that time and what documentation they're carrying now. Or do you think that when I publish an order in the Official Journal of Galicia, I don't have the corresponding legal reports? What are we playing at? Who do we want to fool? What more transparency do you want? The order is published in the Official Journal of Galicia, strictly following what the current legislation says, as could not be otherwise, as you did when you ruled in 2006, 2007 and 2008. All those years have adopted plans of exploitation that came following the same star from the previous years. There's no problem, we have nothing to hide. We didn't say one thing here, another thing in the street, another thing in the ports and another in Brussels. We say the same thing here, on the street, in the central government and in Brussels. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u15	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u16	Thank you, President. Counselor, you don't even say the same thing here today, nor last week. Make an appearance to ask you to withdraw the appeal, we voted on it last week, we voted in favour of the BNG and us, and you voted against it. If you make an appearance today to speak ill of the appeal and to ask the State to withdraw it, we propose that vote -- which seems to you to be wrong to propose -- last week in the House, and you vote against it. [[Murmurs.]] No, if we end up asking us to withdraw the resource and you don't! It's not so messed up, so you like to have the resource presented to you. [[Applause]] But that's another story. You just like it, but at last we leave it for another moment. You quote, Counselor, a lot of things. He cites the Law of Climate Change, which was evil. They were going to file an unconstitutional remedy. When they got to Congress, they'd have to vote against it, wouldn't they? Well, no. They had the problem with the concessions and the extensions of the concessions, the law was introduced to ensure the concessions and the extensions of the concessions, and they voted in favour of the amendment? No, no, no, no. But it's just that you were doing a dialogue in the ports against the European Union's Control Regulation, and they were saying that it had just been adopted. It's a year away, it takes more than a year for it to be approved, and they stopped. When? When they realized that they voted in favour in Europe. [[Applause]] You tell me about the European Control Laboratory. Counselor, I asked him and we had some debate about it. Remember what you said? That they didn't present the initiative. But they brought a GNP here to this Parliament and they did request it from Ecosan. They planted this demand to Ecosán, ruling Rajoy, and he told them, first, not, and second, it's not in this door, it's in another ministry. And then you didn't introduce him. But what example are you setting me? If you're in the war and they love it! That's why I say they like the resource, because they're at war. I believe that this is a political debate, and on laws we can debate. You quoted article 120 of the Back Law, and I quote you 112.10, for example, or 30.1 of the Galician Fisheries Act, which speaks of the perceptual report. But, legally, lawyers have the Holy Church, even the Council of Galicia and the Government of Spain, for discussion. Look, we're doing politics here, and I know... well, given some interventions, I think just like the time I didn't spend I could still leave it to the People's Party to explain why you didn't vote in favour of the agreement last week. But Mrs. Pérez did. Look if they were so clear that we even voted twice. The PP was a bit lost in the Commission and we made it vote twice. Same deal! And they voted against it twice. Both of you! He's talking about activating the Transfer Commission. For what? To claim exclusively the full management of the public domain maritime-terrestrial. And they voted against it. If that, in addition, would allow -- Mrs Pérez clearly said the other day, which was also a key factor in her intervention in the Commission, and we are in that position -- to solve this ad futurum problem, in order not to have to be discussing this, in order to have full management of the competences! We voted in favour, the BNG, too; and the PP, against. With regard to making the complete file public... well, Article 9... Article 9! [[Laughter]] The number must be the length of time it takes to give them. And I'm not telling you in days or weeks, huh! [[Applause]] When they give you! [[Laughter]] But if you're going to make the file public, fantastic! so we can see if you've been asked for that report. Do you know what to do so you won't be asked for the report? Have full competence management. You know what to do for that? Ask them. Activate the Transfer Commission. Oh, how curious if we vote in favour of this! You guys, don't. But what you want is to ask the State to withdraw the appeal. It's just that you're here defending... I'm literally going to read to you: "Open dialogue between self-government and state administrations" -- it must be that you don't like this -- "in order to resolve the possible competitive and administrative conflicts in this matter, starting from the immediate withdrawal of the appeal." And you voted against, twice! But what do you come here to speak ill of the resource? But if we asked him to be removed! What do you not agree with this proposal? The proposal says: activate the Transfer Commission to have the full management of the public domain maritime-terrestrial, make the file public and request the withdrawal of the resource, opening a dialogue with the Administration to solve the problems. What do you disagree with? If that's the question! You here, Counselor, spoke of countless things. And yes, and if the law now doesn't like it, we'll change it, but we have to comply with the laws, even when we don't like it. We are in favour of changing it and having full management. We're in favor, please! Not you, who voted against. It's just that in twelve years, besides, they didn't do anything to ask for the full transfer. If there's trouble, asking for transfers and then not doing it! We've asked for them, and you've been here for twelve years and zero transfers. There's the problems. If it's a matter of papers, they also explain why they've been making a war for six months and not presenting a report, because those 8,700 families, if they know -- they know it! -- that you solve by submitting a report, you might not feel good if you come here and do your homework instead. They do their work and they do their politics, and politics is also done in Parliament with regard to Parliament. And when you come here to make an appearance about something that was voted out last week and voted against, at least you have to have an interest in explaining why, or, if you are not able -- that for now I haven't seen a lot of possibilities to explain many things-- at least explain what your political position is, beyond saying that the others are very bad because they are the others, or to insult the voices, as you did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u17	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, to see if you can explain something to me, on the agenda that has come to us, the first item on the agenda of this session was: The sea councillor's sympathy. Appeal from the Ministry of Ecological Transition on the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation 2021-2023. Is that so, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u19	I suppose the legal services would do so as agreed at the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u20	Okay, it was to sit down, because here, as Serrat said, "Every crazy person with his theme, every one is each one, and every one is what he is!" That's right. [[Applause]] Mrs. Egerique, you said the BNG made a paperboard. The paperboard, Mrs Egerique, did you do it the other day in the Committee on Fisheries, which, after voting twice, does not know what you voted for, nor did you know what you were voting for at that time, because you asked, "Do you not have a point to vote for?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And now, on today, a week later, it still doesn't know what was going on. By the way, if you have to consult with the House services if the transaction could be done or if it could not be done, see what you want. What was to vote was three points, which I read before, which you read later, which Mr Torrado read them and which we read three times in the Commission. And they still say no to three absolutely clear, transparent and clear questions. Article 9 of the Treaty. I'm going to bring you a list, Mrs. Egerique, the next day -- not tomorrow, which doesn't give me time, but the next day -- of all the 9 articles we've requested and of those that we haven't answered yet today. And do you want me to ask for article 9 the file? [[Applause]] Would you like me to request article 9 from the file? No, no, if you already see who Article 9 works for! For the People's Party, because the rest of us are in albis, eh! We're waiting for you to answer us to a bunch of articles 9. Finally, Mrs. Egerique, you, with your attitude, as that one said, "with your heel," continue this way for politics and life, which will well go to the sea sector. Counselor, you talked about a lot of subjects, which gives us the reason for our first intervention. There were and there were a lot of subjects, a lot of problems about the fishing and fishing sector of the Italian seaman that you didn't come to explain to this House and that today, taking advantage of, indeed, Mr. Torrado's intervention... because it's curious and paradoxical, Mr. Torrado spoke for a minute, and the Counsellor answered with fifteen minutes. I did my intervention with the ten minutes that corresponded to me, and you didn't even answer me. Well, anyway, I don't know if that... I don't know very well how we have to interpret that. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now, I... I insist, there were a lot of topics to talk about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You had to appear more often, and not only you here, in the House, Counsellor, also the various offices of the Council on your own commission, which have not yet appeared on explicit subjects that were not questions. By the way, just one question -- and then I go back to my book -- a little question. Actually, the law of climate change, finally, and all the things of the Ministry of Ecological Transition... but, Counselor, marine wind. You spoke here that you are strictly fulfilling -- strictly! -- what the European Union has marked with regard to the marine wind. Just one sentence, eh! because we'll have time to talk about it. Check it out, please -- and if you don't, ask him, that he's probably going to listen to you more than me -- to his partner, the Industry Advisor, who's going to review the creation and conformation procedure of the Marine Wind Observatory, which is not being done transparently or strictly. Let him go, please! Let's talk about the book we came to talk about. It's clear and clear that there's an interference from the State Government here. It is clear and transparent that Galicia, according to the Autonomy Statute itself, has exclusive powers in this matter of what it is talking about, shellfishing in particular, fishing and seafood. Well, if it is clear that we have competences, if it is, indeed, as it is, that since 1993 the plans of exploitation have worked and that this plan this year, despite being triangular -- which is the only difference it has with the previous thirty -- has been travelled for the first time even less than in the trial, there is no other way of qualifying it, Mr Torrado. Indeed, indeed, I have already told you in the Commission, this is not a role, that is a competition, but precisely from there we deduce that competences, both to one another and to another, are really of little interest to one another. And, Counsellor, this problem -- like so many others we have in the sea sector and in other areas, but in the sea sector in particular -- is solved, it can be solved. And you know how to solve it? Well, not twelve years to the bartula -- as it is said in my village --. Twelve years without asking for a single competition in the public maritime/terrestrial environment!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u22	It's over, Mr. President. Counselor, I was glad, at least, to hear you say that on this subject they will reach the end. Yes, yes, they will come to the end to defend, indeed, the exclusive competences -- the rickets exclusive competences-- that are granted to us through the Statute of Self-Government. The Galician Nationalist Block will be there, as it has always been, from the beginning, defending our competences. Now, Your Honor, I'm sorry, Counselor, you're part of the government. [[Laughter]] We're in opposition. [[Mrs. Pérez Fernández put her hand to her head.]] You are the one who has to move to activate the Transfer Commission and to have those powers that we now have frame and request the news. So, for the most part, "paper" they're asking us, indeed, they won't have anything to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u24	Mrs. Pérez, I think, perhaps, the counselor did not respond to what you wanted to hear, so she believes that she answered only Mr. Torrado. But really the Government that is now in Madrid -- as you did in your speeches and in the intervention also in the Commission -- the Government of Spain, is the Socialist Party; and the minister who put that interference -- as you well say -- is the Socialist Party. It must therefore be made clear that the Socialist Party of Galicia aligns itself with the Socialist Party of Spain against Galicia always. And you know it well, because I told you in the debate myself, that we would support your initiative as drafted. What would Mr. Torrado talk about today if he didn't hire you with that deal that he came to? Because, you know what Mr. Torrado avoided? [[Murmurs.]] He has avoided voting on this point -- which I shall read again -- : "Present the preliminary report as soon as possible in order to continue with the procedure provided for in the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation 2021-2023". We do not vote on that point because that is what the Government of Spain really wants to do and what Mr Torrado did not want to vote because he said here today if we put this initiative to the vote. Of course, this point is not going to be voted for. [[Mr. Torado Quintela denies it with his head.]] And, look, I'll continue with the same coherence and the same heel as you tell me, because we're not going to vote for that agreement; I know exactly what we vote for. You're not going to hire us -- like the government -- in their agreements and the clamps they make to avoid making paperwork here. Because Mr. Torrado talks about the "paper" not to mention the paperboard he has to do, because this initiative is registered in the House, registered by the Socialist Party of Galicia without amendment. You're doing a two-PNC recast to avoid voting on this point. I'll tell you something. We've signed an initiative, we're going to vote for it. And you'll also see what you want to vote for or what you don't want to vote for. You can ask for a point vote, make amends, you can use all the tools you want. We know what we really need to ask the Government of Spain, and what we also had clear in the Commission -- and we made it very clear in the Commission -- were the two points of the Block and the first point of the Socialist Party. Because we continue to be coherent and to be careful; to defend Galicia and to defend the maritime sector, not to defend our leaders in Madrid, our concrete parties in concrete situations. No, Mr. Torrado, that's what you're doing and what you've done with that vote. And, look, I won't waste any more time, because this is more than clear. There are other aggravations with Galicia and the maritime-fishing sector in which the PSdeg again and also the PSOE has followed, or has been disauthorised. The advisor has already started talking about the Community Laboratory, where you also had to change your mind. We're talking about the vaccination of sailors, which you've been around preaching falsehoods as well. We talked about the Control Regulation too, which said, "If there are small ships that remain in the creek and it's easily demonstrable, it doesn't make sense that they carry GPS." The phrase of the other day of the Socialist Party, which came here to amend what you did in Europe. And the Galician Nationalist Block votes with the Greens in Europe, even though it says no. So we do the same in Galicia, Spain and Europe, and we always defend it. [[Mrs. Pérez Fernández denies it with her head.]] Amendment of the Law of Backs by the back, another real purpose. It's just that, in addition, they've actually gone back to both parties. Both the Block and the PSdeG were talking about us being afraid, that we were inventing ourselves a subject that is the pure reality. And you have ended up voting on initiatives in this House too in favour of amending this article. We will therefore continue to defend Galicia and continue to defend the fisheries sector. They imply that, as you have reached an agreement and we do not want to pray to you, we do not defend the sector. It's just the opposite. So, Counsellor, as you see, it's a laugh when you talk about the Law of Back, it's a laugh when you talk about the Rules; they say that you don't come here to explain anything, that you come to do myths... is that what you did here was exactly chronologically explain everything that happened and what you did to Junta. So I believe that the appearances and the speeches of Members of the opposition really do not have any kind of credibility. I'm going to give data on the seafood sector and the importance it has, in addition. Because you're talking about something else -- which I'm not going to get into debate here, because I don't have time either -- they're talking about the transfer of skills, that there might be a dialogue between administrations. And in the meantime, what? Meanwhile, under which umbrellas are regulated the seafood sector to work? Again, without thinking of them; they would leave us in limbo. Look, I'm going to end with data from the seafood sector, where the average income has grown by 40% since the year 2009 -- also by managing, on the other hand, what it did to Junta-- We said there were 29 seafood plans without any kind of problem, working, and it has to come a new, totally new, "Ministry of Ecological Treason" to put us here again. The average income during the Feijóo government grew by 13% with reference to that of the Bipartite. That PSOE-BNG bicephaly already knows it by the Galicians, that PSOE-BNG bicephaly already knows it by the fishing sector. And you know what they told them when they tried to manage the fishing? Don't! And we in the People's Parliamentary Group, the majority, on the other hand, told them not to, not to their trilerism, to the fishing sector and to the seafood sector, but not to those agreements by the back door to avoid even voting what you yourselves write. We, Counsellor, as I have already told you, from Parliament, have presented an initiative to defend the position of the Galician Council. We really think it's the right one. And here we will always be supported, from the 8th Commission or from the debates in plenary, the fishing sector and the seafood sector, as you have been doing for so many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the sea councillor's appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u26	Thank you, President. I have just handed it over to the President of Parliament of the dossier, which I would like to thank if he had moved it to all groups. It bothers me sovereignly when one takes the stuff to pieces. I referred to what could have been requested by Article 9, and I'd like you to say if from this council have any file requested by Article 9 that has never been delivered. Perhaps Mr. Balsairo -- who is now not in the Chamber and was a spokesperson for fishing during the Bi-Party government -- could tell if they gave him some! file of all those who requested for Article 9. I mean, let's not confuse things, which I think we have to explain enough here. Mrs. Pérez, you told me that I only answered Mr. Torrado and not you. I think I tried to make a relationship of all the topics that you raised on one line -- vaccination, mortality, regulation of control -- and I think I tried to explain our position on all those issues that you raised. There's no problem coming here or bringing the general directors into the Commission, no problem. We will compare as often as we consider, both your request and your own request. The truth is, I believe that in all this legislation the appearances were always the request itself; I never had any request of appearance. But, well, I will insist more on the need to make these presentations to debate, because it seems good to me to debate in Parliament and to put the points about the is about the many things that you say here and others say out here. Mr. Torrado, you were talking to me about Article 112 of the Back Law and Article 30 of the Fisheries Law, and you keep insisting on two things which, from my point of view, are contradictory. On the one hand, he says that we ask for more competences for the Galician Union, but on the other hand, he asks us to present the "paper" to the Ministry of Ecological Transition. Why do we want more competition if when ruling the Socialist Party in Madrid wants to skip all the competitions we already have today? For what? Because to ask for this little paper is to go directly to the exclusive competences of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] This is the difference between you and the seriousness with which you work, because Article 112 -- if you don't want to waste time reading -- says: "It corresponds to the State Administration to issue a report in a subjective and binding manner: a) For territorial or urban planning and rules of management and their modification or revision" -- is not the case -- "b) For plans and authorisations of industrial spills and contaminants to the sea from land" -- it is not the case -- "c) Projects of constructions of new ports and routes of competition of autonomous communities" -- it is not the case -- "d) Declarations of areas of interest for marine crops, concessions and authorisations, in accordance with specific legislation", which is not the case either. Because I'm regulating an activity, I'm not giving an authorization or a concession. Today I have fear and fear -- and I hope it will not be fulfilled; I hope it will not be fulfilled, look what I say to you!-- I don't know if what you or your friends in Madrid are trying to do with this need to request that preceptive and binding report is because they want to repeal the authorizations and concessions of the different confrereries in Galicia. No, don't do this to me, because worse things have happened! [[Mr. Torrado Quintela makes a gesture from his seat.]] I remind you that the 2008 Fisheries Act had to modify this group in the first six months of government because you were carrying the figure of the fishermen's confrries, because you were loading the figure of the fishermen's confrries! because in that law you were degrading the Marine Environmental Control Institute to a simple service, because you in that law refused to put the counters of the bat-to-zero concessions. And we had to make that change... don't mind! [[Mr. Torrado Quintela waves us from his seat.]] It's very easy to take the law of the year 2008 and its later modification. And you tell me if I lied to anything about all these arguments I said and what we had to run to make that amendment to the Fisheries Act. Did we modify and put the counters to zero of the beats? Yes. Shall we return the figure of law to the fishermen's confrereries? Yes. Shall we return the general management figure to the Institute for Marine Control? Yes. Were those three points in the 2008 Fisheries Act? You too. And now why is this issue of confusing what is the regulation of marine activity, which is what we have been doing since 1992 through the general plans of marine exploitation with the subject of requesting "preceptive and binding report for the occupation of the public domain maritime-terrestrial"? Will they be able to remove the authorizations and concessions to the confrereries? Put your hand on your head, but I have that fear. And when you, after reading article 112 of the Law of Back, explain to him the powers given to us by the Constitution and the powers given to us by the Statute of Self-Government, you keep insisting that we present "the little paper," it's that something will have. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They will have something! because what I have is that to regulate activity we have exclusive competences, and in general plans of marine exploitation, as established in the preamble to the decree that develops them, the only thing that regulates are the rules, the zones, the seasons, the hours of work and the tops that can be taken from each of these areas. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's activity, not occupation of the maritime-terrestrial public domain. Of course, I'm going to get things together and, on the one hand, we have the letter from the Minister of Ecological Transition, where we're told that "seventy-five years is already enough and that we have to draw competitive competition from concessions and authorizations," and now, suddenly, after three years in the Government, three consecutive years, approving the exploitation plans and without requesting the request of that report, suddenly, asking them. The Block asks us to open dialogue and we will not cause any problems. The dialogue opened; the president of the board himself met with Minister Teresa Ribera. And Minister Teresa Ribera said to her, "Don't worry, I'm going to look at him. And so he looked at that the next communication we had was the prosecution of the appeal. If there were ways of dialogue, I think in a relationship between administrations, as usual, there's a phone call: listen, explain this; listen, we have a meeting; we clarify the positions, and the topic is solved. But there was no previous dialogue here. Here the first thing that was done on February 17 was: I command communication, requirement and: either you cancel the order, or I take it to the administrative dispute. A step that gives Junta, or President of Junta: the highest authority in Galicia meets with Mrs Ribera, who is the competent minister. And tell him at the meeting he doesn't know anything about it, but don't worry, he'll figure it out, and that'll solve it because we can't put more than eight thousand seventy people into play. Well, we're waiting. As the days went by, we answered the requirement, because we said, "Let's see if we're going to pass the deadline... let's answer the requirement." We believed that they could understand the legal reasons that were given in response to that requirement and that there would stop the thing. No, the next news was the appeal. I mean, Mrs. Ribera's position is: you give me reason or I take you to the courthouse. And you ask me for dialogue! Man, please, you have your dignity too, eh! [[Murmurs.]] Control regulation. You said here that we walked through the ports... you're very wrong. The ones who walked through the ports were you. Yes, yes. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela denies with his head from his chair.]] No coloring. It's just that I'm the one who's most surprised. See, under the Control Regulation, the plenary session of the Galego Fisheries Council approved a unanimous ruling. To analyse this dictame, all the European Members of Greece were invited to come to a meeting at the plenary session of the Galego de Pesca Council. The rapporteur for this regulation, to which he has the ability to propose what he wants to contain the regulation, is Mrs Aguilera, who I think is remembering that she is not, precisely, the People's Party, but that she is a socialist Euro MP. He was explained at the working meeting, apart from giving him the documentation, which were the fundamental differences between fishing and seafood and aquaculture in Galicia with regard to the rest of the European communities and regions. He was asked to take these provisions into account when making his proposal for the regulation. In case I didn't. The proposal for a control regulation in the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries was discussed. The only group that defended all the positions of the Galician Fisheries Council's dictatorship was the People's Group, the only one! When he went to the full... Don't do that, because we'll have to call the Members here, then. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela waves us from his seat.]] Okay, we'll bring them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, I just need you to fool me, eh! When the vote went to plenary, the People's Party voted in favour... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We voted in favour. Why? Because we got a lot of the things they were asking for, and those who voted against voted against voted against because they still wanted it to be tougher and they didn't want to approve the beneficial things that came forward. That's the reality. But you have it very easy, because the rapporteur now has to work on the trilogues. Let him defend what he has to defend! What the rapporteur cannot do is come here, to Galicia, meet with certain representatives of the fisheries sector and say: Yes, I understand that Galicia is different, that ships that work less than 100 meters from the same coast are not necessary to carry the GPS. I'm going to propose that the ships less than eight meters are exempt. When she finds out there's already a proposal from the Council of Ministers to exempt ships less than nine metres away. Why are you talking to us about eight? Then I'll tell you that you've got another meter. Man, no! Look, things can't be done like this! One cannot be shaken from the sector and one must have enough face to explain to the sector what the operation of Brussels is like, which is what is being voted in favour and which is what is being voted against. The rest, what you have done in the Commission, will remain in your conscience. Because if they didn't, they had no arguments to come today as they came here, that they didn't talk about defense of the seafood sector. You keep insisting that we present the little paper. I won't introduce it. I'm not going to introduce it because I understand it's to skip the exclusive competences that Galicia has. Is that clear? [[Applause]] Mrs. Pérez, I praise your defense in this case. I am sorry that you were let go in the committee the other day, because the truth is that we could have reached a good agreement, an agreement that would have calmed the maritime sector that most of the Members of this Parliament had in defence of their work, their work and their organization. Anyway, what I'm telling you is, we're going to ask for competences, as we're saying, in the management of the coast, of course, and in oceanographic research, of course. That's how we're doing it, but it's hardly worth asking for competences if the PSOE will soon rule in Madrid with the support of the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u27	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to item 2 of the agenda, motions. motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Martín Seco García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to develop a new wind model for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u28	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u29	Thank you, President. This weekend we lived a masseign demonstration in Santiago where thousands of Galicians and Greeks protested by the current wind model of the People's Party in Galicia; an unrest that grows day by day without the Government of Galicia hearing a citizenship asking for changes to protect our territory. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you, as vice president Count said the other day on World Environment Day, are a government very committed to the environment. I'd like to say that they are equally committed to the environment than to equality when they form these boards of administration where there are no women. And, as Mr. Tellado says: not with an eco-xism of propaganda, with a real eco-xism, one that doesn't even know what it is, because in twelve years they've never made environmental policies, but which remains very well in the lips of politicians without ties, not like others who depend on the migages of the deputies to live. [[Applause]] What a depth of Mr. Tellado! What a political lesson for those outside the political sphere who have such a wide work curriculum! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what happens to your party after this Saturday's mobilization, propose changes? No, activating the only resource they have to try to justify their uselessness in front of the German Government: blaming the Spanish Government. Again, evil Sánchez as guilty of everything. It turns out that the failure to plan our territory, the failure to protect our wetlands, the failure to extend the Natura Network, the lack of a fair economic return to the population and to the municipalities are the fault of Pedro Sánchez. How could we not have fallen so far, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? The only thing that happens to you in the face of the huge problem that we have in our country is to blame the Government of the State for asking you not to use the projects that, in terms of their competence, you have to evaluate, whether affirmative or negative. Mrs. Novoa, I am looking forward to seeing all the people in high spirits denouncing that failure of the political level, the lowest that you remember in this House, impropriety of parliamentary groups of this institution. And now the group that supports the German Government asks the central government not to negatively evaluate a project, no, ask it directly not through a project. What did you say the other day in the Commission? Wouldn't it be prevariation that would refuse to evaluate projects even if then they weren't allowed? You must be very concerned today about that level so low that you yourself have denounced, but the curious thing is that you are the one who signed this own proposal. What's the matter with politics? And ask for it, in addition, because the projects are out of the sector plan's wind development areas; these same ones that you just renounced by law a few months ago for the implementation of projects of special interest. How do you think the sectoral plan is modernized with a plan dating back to 1997 and that they haven't even submitted to strategic environmental assessment? What do you think are increasing the distances to the housings that windmills can install? Or did Pedro Sánchez also force them to have a minimum of 500 meters away from the rural nucleus, when in Asturias and Valencia, with socialist governments, they have a minimum distance of 1,000 meters thanks to Feijóo? From the Socialist Group we ask them, once again, to open the debate, to do something to demonstrate to the Greek citizenship that the Government is next to it and that they do not work to benefit the interests of the large energy companies in this country, those who then put their partner Beatriz Mato on a rotational door in the management council of a company in the sector; as my colleague Pablo Aranguena said the other day, with a rotating door of the size of Gloria's Portico -- I would almost say that the size of the portico of Navantia, in Fene-- moving to address a company on which he made decisions from the Environmental Council. From the Socialist Party we have been trying to convince them that asking for changes is not to be against the wind companies sector, that socialists are firm advocates of the deployment of renewable energies and the fight against climate change in Galicia, but we need the Government of Greece to make an effort to secure a citizenship that the installation of new wind parks will respect our territory, the quality of life of our rural citizens, the viability of agricultural and livestock farms and our cultural heritage, our environment and our landscape. From the Socialist Group we know that wind energy is important to Galicia. We want to defend the sector that represents almost 1% of the German GDP; a sector that provides thousands of jobs, which is essential in the unappropriate fight against climate change and which between 2015 and 2019 avoided the emission of 33 million tonnes of CO2. But even though the sector is important, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Galicia already has a strong deployment of wind energy, much more than in most autonomous communities in our country and therefore any wind energy project that arrives in Galicia should be analysed with great care. In today's motion we ask you again to open up the negotiation process to arrive at a new wind sector plan, which we have got old-fashioned, that we should study the current situation in Galicia, to establish where the new wind infrastructures can be located, which are the areas that we must preserve from the impact of these parks, what limits we must have in this deployment, and of course what regulation we must put on the table with wind infrastructures that will change a lot these years, because nothing has to do with the mills that were installed in the 1990s with the current ones, which can be up to 200 meters. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not refuse to change the rules. If they did it in 2017 and 2021 to facilitate the deployment of wind energy, they could also make changes to protect our citizenship and our heritage. You, who recently established that wind power could be implanted outside the wind development areas and also allowed the environmental inspection service to develop private companies, can increase the minimum distance to which the mills of housing have to be located; you have only to have the conviction and the political initiative to make it possible. They'll have our support to do it. They should also study what's going on with those huge polygonal surfaces that appear implanted with wind farms projects, which causes properties inside them to be affected. That is, they change the conditions in which the properties of many neighbors are found, that they don't receive any economic benefit from the implantation of these windmills, but the possibilities are limited and reduced the value of those properties that, in many cases, cost them time and sacrifice to obtain. By the time the enlargement of the Natura Network, gentlemen of the People's Party -- an enlargement that for its group was urgent more than ten years ago, but which is still blocked -- It's terrible to see how in Galicia we have less than half the state average surface of this network. They protect our wetlands, including the turbos present in many of the places where wind farms are projected, which are barely covered by environmental impact studies, since, with the exception of the five wetlands protected in Galicia, these turbos are not even included in the inventory of wetlands provided by autonomic regulations for over a decade now. This inventory has never been made. On the other day, Vice-President Conde spoke about the development of a technical proposal for a declaration of new sites of Community importance for turbulence habitats, but, at the same time as they answer this in an interpellation, I told the Quixote de Outes collective, when they ask for the catalogue of new wetlands, that the register of wetlands is only at the statistical level and therefore does not involve protection. This is the response given to something as important as the protection of water, the bogs and turbulence of our territory, a kind of wet area that already receives the high degree of importance they have to combat climate change by being natural accumulators of CO2. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we understand that it is costly to admit the advantages of the current system, but, just as they admitted the need to create these advisory offices to the councils, which previously denied them, we propose the same questions of always: put in place ways to improve incomes that reach the owners, balancing the negotiations between promoters and owners with the publication of a standard contract so that the citizen has this contract as a basis to negotiate with the promoters; create a public base of price information reached in negotiations to inform the population; change the regulatory framework to ensure that, in order to arrive at the declaration of public utility of a land and that a promoter achieves an expropriation, it is necessary to justify the existence of a negotiation and the impossibility to reach agreements, a condition that you have changed and should be much expropriated; increase the economic impact on the municipalities and rural communities, and that a promoter regulation can be made more effective, but it is necessary to ensure that the wind canonment is not installed by the power installed in the parks -- and the zones. In the case of wind farms located in neighbouring mountain communities, we suggest that, as the Principality of Asturias does, the canon or income cannot be less than 3% of the value of the profits obtained by the promoter, and that they eliminate the generic prevalence of the social interest and public utility of wind farms in relation to the mountain neighbors in common, which should be studied on a case-by-case basis. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in your hand, is to take the initiative and to change a wind model that is completely old-fashioned and that every day the Galician society demands more force than it changes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u30	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. As an initial reflection, I will say that during the course of the legislative process we debate long and tense about the problems that were being encountered in the current wind deployment model of the People's Party. And now that social and political life is being decoupled and that it is possible to have large social calls, I think the People's Party should go open their eyes and see what happened last Saturday in the streets of Santiago de Compostela... I'm sorry, it was all concentrated. [[Mr. President tells Mrs. Presas Bergantiños that she can remove the mask for her intervention.]] So, much better, the truth. As I said, last Saturday in the streets of Santiago de Compostela we saw a grand, successful demonstration, convened by over a hundred collectives and that he had thousands of Greeks and Greeks claiming what we've been moving in this Parliament for a long time: this social cry for a new wind model that ends with the problems that the People's Party has had. And under that motto of "Eolico, not so" -- which can also be summed up in that of "Eolico yes, but not so," -- what they claimed was a model change. The People's Party really should get out of its ivory tower and listen to what these collectives are saying, that perhaps their message was silent by this time when public participation had so many limitations, but of course it's there. And you have to think of the People's Party that can't be that they have the powerful reason and that all the rest of the world is the one who's wrong. So they must heed the message that was released this Saturday, which is a message from a country that has dignity, a country that wants renewable energies, that wants to move forward in an energy transition that is fair, but which is not the cost of its interests and precisely the cost of damage to our environmental system that is irreparable. So you can't give this debate with the same mechanized tone and the same autonomous role of the knee in which the People's Party has had us over the past few months, but we call for a change of consciousness, even though it's only because of seeing the wolf's ears and seeing that they're going to have to finish rectification. They're going to have to finish rectification, just as they did with the "Virin doesn't close," just like they did with the Bull Mine, Corcoesto, the Aquaculture Law and so many other issues, gentlemen of the People's Party. Because in this debate they are completely alone in the face of a social cry that is unstoppable, because really the many problems that are leaving this model of deployment on the territory go that way, so that it is unstoppable. And they also have some responsibility, some caution, because what you're doing in the territory is generating a negative impact on renewable energies, and already today, with which you're falling, it's almost impossible that from the neighborhoods, mountain communities and neighboring associations don't see as a problem what should be a step forward in our country. It's being a problem thanks to the politics of the People's Party. Therefore, since the BNG we have referred to this social cry that was seen this weekend. It's not the first time we've seen it, that there have also been very important previous mobilizations. But, of course, it gives an idea that this country has enormous dignity and a capacity to overcome and to respond to all these kinds of aggressions. [[Applause]] And it must also be said that this social cry was against the political policy of the People's Party at the Galician Union, but that the attempt to deploy state-level parks that the central government is doing was not free. I would also invite the Socialist Party to stop doing this exercise that sometimes makes selective amnesia and also forget that many of the state-level projects on the table -- not all of them -- are a huge problem. It is true that the People's Party has adopted a position of very comfortable and very perverse self-excusation. Now the People's Party comes out with its green green green echoist jacket, which they like so much to some of their voices, to say that these projects do not, that the central government cannot do what the People's Party is doing in Galicia, which is to skip the Natura Network, skip enlargement projects or skip social and economic interests. The central government can't do it. We agree you can't do it, but we also ask the Galician Board to apply the story. So I would appeal to both political parties to also defend Galicia's right to decide on its energy policy, to all wind installations to be flown through from the German field, and to those of the People's Party that there is a correction and there is a new wind sector plan, a new regulation that fixes all these problems, which we basically summarize from the BNG in three major areas: we are seeing a huge environmental problem, we are seeing a huge social problem and we are also seeing a huge economic problem. Because, of course, here the People's Party is trying to paint the cartoon that this answer is four "loques" and a drum -- no less -- and it underestimates this social mobilization by trying to paint it that it's just a question that there are three or four people throughout the territory who don't want a windmill near their home and that there's no more problems, when, in fact, there's a serious environmental, social and economic problem that I'm going to try to sum up in this intervention. There is an environmental problem that we have already put on the table many times, because you have premeditatedly not extended the Nature Network and because you have premeditatedly made a transposition of international and state environmental regulation to that Natural Heritage Act -- but they do not comply; they do not comply with that principle of caution and the prevalence of environmental interest and protection above others -- And there's also a huge environmental problem, because you, as an active part of the problem, are not controlling the fragmentation of the parks that are being processed in our country. That makes environmental processing -- let's say -- more partial, and that also makes it not seeing the impact cumulatively. And we have examples all over the country, from Valdeorras to Vimianzo -- also fragmented -- or we can go all over the area of Suido... it looks the same way as where we look, the usual modus operandi is the fragmentation and silence of the board of Galicia, despite what we were told by the judgments of Sasdonigas or the Oribio. On the other hand, there is also a huge social problem of participation and access to information. First, we saw that, in addition, you took advantage of the pandemic to relax the public participation procedures and to shorten them over time with that Administrative Simplification Act, which comes to rain on wet from the Business Implementation Act or "predation law" of 2017. But, not content with that, you do what you're doing is to favor faster and more business benefits, but to be less and less transparent about neighbouring, which you have to do almost a research and self-organization operation in order to know which projects affect your territory and how, and to be able to claim within very short periods of time and also without the slightest advice from the Administration. This is "the law of the jungle," an expression that, in addition, united the collectives working in the territory and the employer, because the employer himself speaks of "the law of the jungle", with which he is falling with the Government of the People's Party. And in view of this, the PP launches this balloon probe from the provincial offices of care, which is basically going to gather some mayors, you don't know whether they're from the People's Party or if there's any more, to explain to you, before these projects are under public processing, what they're going to do; we assume that to go out on fires and thus prevent the People's Party councils from adding to motions asking for another wind model and that the People's Party councils push allegations also asking for respect for the territory and another wind model. So that mechanism of containment of the People's Party's own municipal fires now presents itself as a step forward in democratizing these processes, when it's at all that. And on the other hand, I wanted to make some mention also of the many economic problems we're seeing in the territory. First, there is a fundamental question, which is that these projects are all in the hands of large companies, that the People's Party has given up public participation in the sector's profits, has given up the public control of the sector and that, therefore, there is already a basic problem, but also in the application of a model of unusable and obsolete wind canon that left us in the past episodes such as that Galicia had to pay the highest bill of state and that it does not have a proper return for the municipalities where these windmills are implanted or for the societies that live there. So it's a source of more conflict instead of being a step forward. We would have to go to another model, but we also have to put on the table that the monetary return to mountain communities, for owners, even for the municipalities themselves, is tiny, compared to the great benefits of the sector. And we also have to leave on the table as reflection that Galicia has never generated so much wind energy before and that she has never had so many associated jobs. We're seeing relocations like that of Siemens-Gamesa, we've seen incomprehensible closures like that of Isowat, in the Coruña, while you're saving the castle branch, and we also see how big companies are dedicated to delocalizing jobs that would have to monitor the network in this country. So it's impossible for that cabal that makes Galician Union the hand of large-generation companies in our country; this in addition to multiple other examples, such as the incompatibility with the socio-economic uses of the territory and a long et cetera. These three major areas of problem are just the tip of the iceberg, and the People's Party has to correct them, because there's margin for a model change, because we don't need to run that much, because we have a good position already renewables and because we can allow ourselves to stop thinking a moment before the damage is irreparable. That's what society asked of us last Saturday, and what we've been asking for so long. So the People's Party is increasingly alone, more focused and more pressured to do so. So, the sooner they give in, the sooner they hear and assume that they must rule for this country and not for big businesses, the better it will be for all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, you have the floor of Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Seco, you, as always, surf; surf the surface, analyze the modes or forms of intervention, as well as analyzing the curricula of the people who intervene here. I don't know if your Repsol is the right one to talk about green energy here, Mr. Seco. One respect for all the speakers in this Parliament, Mr Seco. [[Applause]] Look, the Socialist Party is again opposed, it's back on the side of those who oppose everything: on the side of those who oppose wind installations, but they say they defend renewable energy and the environment, and those who oppose private companies, but they say they are in favour of employment, which obviously generates the installation and maintenance of renewable energy. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, they're back on the side of those who say "no" to Galicia. Look, the German rural doesn't need false saviors, but public servants who put the general interest in their political or ideological interests before them. We are faced with clean and sustainable energy, with twenty-five years of history and coexistence in our community; an energy that has evolved much technologically so that it can be more efficient and to seek a lower environmental impact; an energy that avoids emissions of CO2, which is the main cause of climate change, and which irreversibly threatens natural ecosystems and biodiversity. Ladies and gentlemen, or you are in favour of Galicia moving forward in its energy transition oriented towards economic recovery towards a more sustainable model, taking advantage of the opportunities that the renewable industry opens up -- of course, without leaving anyone behind -- or against. What is your energy model? What is the energy model of the opposition?, to be in favour of the early closure of the thermal power plants by the Government of the State, leaving hundreds of people in the street, but also attacking the renewable development in Galicia, as has been done so far in an orderly manner? It's funny, Mr. Seco, that you're talking about making illegal proposals. A little stink! A little stink! We have been working on and discussing proposals in this Parliament since the beginning of legislation, all contrary to legality, and asking to paralyze projects and not process them. Don't talk to me about illegal proposals. You systematically ask to violate the law. Look, they're talking here about a lack of planning, a model of ordered wind sector, when we count on an wind sector plan that defines the areas where the wind farms have to be implanted. That's the legality of the Greek wind sector. And for this reason, the Galician Economic Reactivation Act, which we have recently approved, prevents parks from implanting outside the areas included in the Wind Sector Plan, except, ladies and gentlemen, of projects that have a clear territorial impact by their economic and social entity and have a vertebrate function in the territory. But look, this group is wondering why, in this pursuit of communication and information that is giving citizenship -- that's yes, in a very uncertain and interested way -- they don't tell them the reality and they tell them how many wind farms are going to be processed by the state, megaprojects from many airlines placed where it is not allowed by the law of Galicia. I'm going to give you a relationship of submitted megaprojects that the central government insists on processing outside the Greek sectoral wind plan: Province of Coruña: Ardemil, The Poor, The Cabazo, The Armada, Lavender, Cova da Vella, Nordés, Tornado, Orzar, Berdoias, Pedrabante, Pena do Corvo, Garveiras, Gondre, Taboada. Fifteen wind farms, 937 megawatts, 30 municipalities. Location: Boura, Monzón, Levante, Borrasca, Mistral, Ventisca, The Pastoral, The Foundry, Balindos, Roidiz. Ten wind farms, 750 megawatts of power, 17 municipalities. Ourense: Rebordechao, Barjas, Prada, Alto Cabrera. Four wind farms; total: 590 megawatts of power, 16 municipalities. Pontevedra: Galerna, Brisa, Tramontana, Céfiro, Monte dos Porcallos, Val do Folgoso. Total: 6 wind farms, 358 megawatts of power, 5 municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, total: 68 municipalities in Galicia; one in five municipalities in all of Galicia affected by megaparks located outside the areas of the wind sector plan, out of the norm, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a map of Galicia.]] [[Applause]] This is the picture, Mrs. Presas and Mr. Seco, that you don't want to teach! This is the reality, for the sake of his servitude to Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Seco and Mrs. Presas. This is the picture that you don't want to teach all the Welsh and Welsh people. Look, the current German legal framework is guaranteed, and it follows a state environmental legislation, Mrs. Presas and Mr. Seco, as we have talked constantly. We're aware of the natural values of our community, we don't have to say that here, you don't. Look, all LICs are included in the Natura Network. This is not the case in other communities. Look, all wind projects carry an ordinary environmental processing -- all wind projects!-- and the synergy of parks is analyzed in the environmental processing. And we can't talk about fragmentation when we analyze up to fifteen kilometers around these parks. You're doing here, Mrs. Presas, it's disposing of the civil service and talking about the fact that the Greek officials don't deal with the projects with the same rigor as the state officials. It's just that you defend officials and the public service when you think of them, Your Honor. Not always, as this group and the Government do. Look, this German Environmental Processing Act complements the Natural Heritage Act, which, in addition to its article 2 -- and you were here when it was processed; Mr. Seco is what was not -- in paragraphs f) and g), says: "The priority" -- highlights the priority -- "of environmental protection over territorial and urban management", and also establishes "precaution for interventions that may affect the natural heritage or biodiversity" present in our community. Look, they say there's no economic return to citizenship. Well, they generate jobs. Today it's almost 1% of GDP in Galicia, 7,000 jobs in our community, 581 million euros -- as I say -- contributing to the German GDP. And Galicia has a wind cannon, which has also been implemented by two communities in Spain, like us, which are Castile and León and Castile-A Mancha. He's been here since it started, 250 million euros. It's a cannon for the municipalities concerned. This year 2021 is budgeted 7.7 million euros only for wind farms. I insist that you can't record by power, because if you don't, we'd be talking about a territorial supplement here again, which unfortunately we had to take on a failure in the law of the electricity sector for a year corresponding to 2012. Madam Presas, if you like, we're serious. If not, we do demagogy, as you do. Look, apart from the wind canon, companies pay for ICIO, IBI and IAE in the municipalities. In 2019 they left revenues of 37.6 million euros. And it's the big deal you're talking about Walls out there and they're talking about light coming down. But it's because the Wall Town Hall -- 600 inhabitants -- comes down to light, thanks to what? What is the assumption that the inhabitants are brought to light? You say it here! With the cannon! A little stink, Your Honor! It's thanks to the cannon and the taxes they collect. [[Applause]] A little stink! [[Applause]] Look, when they talk about transparency and participation, I advise them that, apart from the Greek projects, they also talk about state projects, which have hidden them. They've been hidden there, but it turns out they affect all those municipalities I've told them before, one out of every five in all of Galicia. Look, the wind farms are declared of public utility by a state law, by the law of the electric sector, and it's done in Galicia just as in the rest of Spain. And anyway, the percentage according to the 18 parks placed last year was 85%. But in many, it was 100 percent. How clear! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it's not extortion, it's voluntary agreement, Mr. Bará!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u34	Silence, Mr Bará! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u35	Believe the thief who is all of your condition, Mr. Bara. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as for transparency and participation -- I insist -- the law already argues that any affected person, or municipalities, can claim during project processing. But there is a matter of a few months, the Union -- for this transparency and institutional collaboration with all administrations -- has launched the provincial information network for all municipalities affected in advance and through territorial heads. Look, the reality is, of course not, that we're not like you. Of course, our model believes in the company. We believe in the company, in the private company, that is key to generating jobs. Our model allows any promoter, regardless of its size - - - - - Mrs. Presas, - regardless of its size - can develop an wind farm in Galicia; many social capital. In our community today they are developing wind farms in Galicia. And don't say no, because it is. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos wave from her seat.]] Our model allows that, by ensuring all necessary environmental protection, economic development in rural and the environment is compatible. Yes, our model does allow that. It also allows to promote self-consumption. We've been doing it for years, ladies and gentlemen. What you're getting -- I insist -- what you're trying to get, is to frighten the population with falsehoods, gentlemen. Not all wind projects are going out ahead, and you know it, but you're saying they're going out, and they're all on a map -- not these that I taught you, that the state really wants to process and install in Galicia --. You put them all in, and it's not true that everyone's going to go ahead. Those who comply with all the technical and environmental guarantees, Mrs Presas. That's not what you say. Look, what they want to prevent is Galician resurgence. We have a chance, a chance. Galicia has a strength in renewable energy, and you propose a moratorium, which is already the whole thing that the two parties here call themselves defenders of renewable energy and the environment propose a moratorium, as we heard the other day in a debate in which we were all in, gentlemen. In this, really, they should be a little stinky. Those who claim to defend the environment want to avoid the deployment of renewable energy. He's a surrealist, gentlemen! We cannot, of course, adopt this initiative. And if they continue for the same purpose, those who repeat constantly, ladies and gentlemen, it's you. What this group does is fulfill...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u37	...and urge the Union to comply with the law and continue to process the projects, as it does today. Those who comply with the law will go forward; and those who don't, they won't go out. For our part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Seco García has the floor for the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u39	Thank you, President. Mrs. Novoa, we will always bring the same initiatives, and we will continue to bring them over and over again until you hear the population and all the collectives throughout Galicia are asking for these issues, such as the Galician Wind Observatory itself; even many of your mayors, Mrs. Novoa. And besides, we'll bring it in because even if you do, some of the initiatives that we presented in December now you present them; so it means that little by little they are recognising that the Greek system has certain eyves and that we have to change the model. Because here no one is against wind energy and no one is against installing wind energy in our country, but what we ask of you is to modify the wind model, to make it better, that we all build a better system to protect our territory, to protect our environment, also to make the economic return better and, why not, also to generate industrial activity. Look, you said I had to respect all my comrades. I respect them absolutely all, I don't mess with nobody's work at all. What I ask for is the respect, precisely, for those who say they live from the crumbs that leave the deputies. That was my criticism, Mrs. Novoa. So that's exactly what I'm asking for: that no one comes to this kind of comment that is so harmful to politics. You are, on the one hand, in favour of transition and against climate change and, on the other, are the biggest advocates of the most polluting energies. You don't know what you want. On the one hand, they want to keep companies that pollute coal and at the same time speak ill of them and not vote in favour of a climate change law that means so much to this country. You really are the ones who have to start wondering what the way the People's Party wants to take is really the way. [[Applause]] Regarding the projects that the state has, it gives the feeling -- even listening to the BNG voicer -- which is the state that implements the projects; in other words, in Galicia companies are being put in place, but in the state they are being implemented by the state. No, we're being encouraged by wind power-promoting companies. They obviously present their projects, which can be positively or negatively evaluated. That's the reality. And besides, they're obviously going to be under some kind of legislation, which is what we urge them to constantly change: that they protect wetlands precisely, that they make that inventory of wetlands that they don't do, that they expand the Natura Network and that they protect our territory and our primary activities. That's what we're constantly asking them from the Socialist Party, because, in the end, it's going to be evaluated according to the conditions of legislation, in a way or another. And, therefore, the German Government is obliged to try to inform us of the situation in which these wind projects are found and to tell the Ministry that it does not approve of such projects that can be harmful to our population. Look, I'm going to repeat that for us this is an important sector and that the deployment of wind energy should be something of a pact with the territory, agreed with the collectives and agreed with the municipalities. Wind promoters themselves say this is the law of the jungle, because you're not even able to plan the sector. So we ask them once again to modify the current wind model, generating more guarantees for our heritage, for our environment and also for the economy of our municipalities. You say they get part of the wind canon, but I want to remind you that the Environmental Compensation Fund is a completely opaque system that does not directly benefit rural communities that are affected by the wind. So they should make changes, as well as modify those issues that balance the negotiation between owners and promoters, and not leave the citizens of our rural businesses at the forefront of energy, who see how many wind promoters are approaching their door without anyone giving them a hand, without having a standard contract to know how to negotiate with wind promoters and without having a record of prices achieved in those negotiations so that they can guide themselves and set up a negotiation with large energy sectors. [[Murmurs.]] Why don't they make these kind of questions? I don't think we're proposing any questions that they can't carry out. We therefore ask them to gradually change their position and move towards a path of a more democratic wind model, which gives greater benefit to the territory and respects our environment and our population. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next motion. Motion of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union in relation to the balanced participation of men and women in the administration bodies and in the board of directors of societies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u41	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u42	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u43	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I do not want to start this debate, a debate on equality, without emphasizing the tireless work of our companion Isaura in this field. Your good advice has always been, for this speaker, guides and tools to act on my parliamentary task. [[Applause]] Of course, we're going to miss her very much, and so am I. As we speak of Isaura, we have to speak of feminism, of that struggle of our companions, of our sisters -- like her -- that over the last few years have made effective equality between men and women and non-discrimination recognized principles in the normative frameworks of virtually everyone. Because women's equal participation in political, social, economic and cultural life is -- or should be -- a primary objective that is present in all public policies in order to achieve a better gender balance in decision-making and leadership positions. Of course, but we can't just stay on the papers, we have to go to action, and that action, of course, must come first from the hands of the government authorities, who must take the flag of feminism and make it their own, to serve as a mirror where the rest of the organizations should look. And from there our motion today. Look, every society elaborates its rules of gender according to its beliefs or interests, and almost always the resulting patterns were asymmetric and limiting for one of those genres. Guess what? It's pretty clear. Our society has not been alien to this, and throughout our history male roles have been better valued and associated with power; and, by the way, to power, but also to the power of men over women. The role of male gender has been associated -- and unfortunately still associated -- with public activity and presence, power and responsibility, while the female role was relegated -- unfortunately, it is still relegated -- to the private sphere, to the domestic activity and to the care of our own. They are the dominant ones, the strong ones, the authoritarian ones, the competitive ones; and they -- we -- they are the weak ones, the sensitive ones, the submissive ones, the servants, the compresive ones, the protectors, also the ones we deserve -- we seem to deserve protection. And, of course, these roles come up with stereotypes that are exactly associated with each of those qualities and that cause a correspondence to the tasks to be performed. Because that gender socialization -- or what they call "differentiated socialization" -- is that which gives male and female roles through which areas of action and power plots are divided, and that's what we're talking about today. Fortunately -- and, I repeat, thanks to the feminist struggle --, as an advanced society that we are, we finally understand that this is not sustained and that a 180-degree money order should be given to these considerations. And so did most of society, which understood that the patriarchal system had wrongly established relations of subordination and subsidiarity of the female gender with respect to the male. It was understood by society, it understood it -- most of it, at least -- and the public authorities, logically, are also society. Now we just have to act to prove not only that we understand it and internalize it, but that we practice it. From there our motion today. Our today's motion is the only thing that aims to reinforce -- as I say -- what's already written -- that what's written is no longer wet paper. And please don't fight this argument here by holding out what we claim, because it's not. Our visibility, the visibility of women in the public sphere, is vital for combating machismo, because equality of opportunity is a question of social justice which, in addition, contributes to the democratic development of societies, and is also a criterion for the effectiveness of society as a whole. The presence of women in political decision-making positions is necessary to achieve a just and democratic society. Well, it's true that we don't have time here today to associate this motion -- which, as you see and as you know, is very concrete -- with what really ought to be the necessary debate, from there our sorrow. The necessary debate should be -- which, moreover, we have already brought it back to this House and to the other opposition group and which will undoubtedly return -- the debate on conciliation, co-responsibility, use and division of time. Because these issues -- those I just mentioned -- are directly related to what we are dealing with today about the visibility of women and their participation in those decision-making bodies. There lies a lot of the solution. But, of course, in the meantime, we have to take small steps to move forward, as we have today. We need to break with the damned "glass ceilings", those invisible barriers, but unfortunately, effective ones that are presented on our professional itinerary -- women's -- and that prevent our promotion to high decision-making positions and power within organizations -- of course, mostly dominated by men -- And these barriers are invisible because the reality is that there are no social norms or devices that impose these limitations on women, it's true. And why? Well, because they're built on the basis of androcentric cultural and social constructions -- i.e. patriarchal --, much more difficult to identify; and, as they're very hard to identify, they're also very hard to crack. There's a concept in all of this theory that I'm here today explaining that it's called "the rule of inverse proportionality," so in any prestigious occupation of work or with some prestige, the higher the level of professionalism, the lower the presence of women. And this, which is a fact, causes issues that certainly deserve our attention. What's the cause? It causes less social consideration of the importance of our ideas; it causes less possibilities, obviously, of promotion in organizations, which also means less chances of having greater purchasing power; and it also causes greater possibilities of sexual harassment at work. Why? Because the women are in lower positions and we are subjected, in the end, to the hierarchical power of these men. And all this, silently, perpetuates that masculine culture, with male models where men are innate leaders and are, in addition, a symbol of professional success and full dedication to work. That's why we want to link, though very much -- we don't have time -- these crystal ceilings with those gender roles and with the co-responsibility, care and use and the distribution of the times, because, in fact, everything is one and deserves a pause reflection, but urgent. It won't be today, I know, and that's why with this motion we're just trying to put up a little bit of sand. The important thing is to get even, we know it perfectly, but, as I said, we have to take action, put solutions, and what if we can do it right away. We in the PSdEG today have not seen this debate with another character which is not absolutely proactive, convinced and convinced, in addition, that the three groups present in the House share what we are explaining. But we must not be alone in our thinking, and we must -- as I said -- move on to action to institutionalize what, of course, should be an obligation for us. In the whole past, we set an example of everything that is unacceptable, but -- and we have to be honest -- the reality is that there are many more examples like this, many more, and at all levels of political and organizational. But the other day we also said it: exemplaryness should be a value that should be taken into account; we cannot demand what we do not do ourselves and ourselves. Equality between women and men should be the basis on which the entire government is based, the principle that must refuse the action of a government and a society. And that principle has to be materialized to a large extent with regard to and the achievement of the participation and the balanced representation of both sexes in all aspects of life; at all, starting from the policy and administration, of course, that's why I'm talking about exemplaryness. And that achievement -- if this motion is approved -- we intend to reach this government, but, of course -- because I am convinced that there will be progressive governments and very soon -- these progressive governments too will have to force us to do the same. This has to be -- which is what we are proposing today -- an obligation for the future. And so what we propose today in our motion is to ensure balanced participation between men and women that sets forth the first additional provision of the Organic Law for the effective equality of women and men, which speaks of 40 %-60 % in all the higher organs and leadership of the General Administration of Galicia, as well as in all its instrumental entities; to urge Junta so that it cannot participate in any society in which this balanced representation is not respected in its boards of directors; and also to make effective the agreement unanimously approved in the Galician Parliament, at its session on 9 March, which urged that this gender perspective would be present in those projects that are presented to the Next Generation funds -- because, of course, if women are no longer in those decision-making centres that decide which funds will be, we are concerned that this will not be carried out. In essence, we're not going to solve -- we know -- the problem of machismo with this, but if we're putting a lot of sand to achieve real and effective equality. We insist on the idea of exemplaryness and we start, of course, by this administration, but this does not mean that it should not be extended to all areas of the public. And nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u45	Thank you, President. First of all, I also want to move, both personally and from the People's Parliamentary Group -- and we have done so -- our sorrow at the death of my companion, Isaura Abelaras, with which we also had some debate in this area of equality. It was little time, but enough to know your commitment in this field. All our affections for your family. [[Applause]] This motion, Mrs. Díaz, is the fruit of an interpellation in which you, in the past full, showed a photograph of an administrative council of the driving society of the next generation funds; a photograph that we don't like either. It's a reality that a council formed by men alone can't please us, not only as women, but as representatives of a plural society in which there are men and women and in which we all have the same abilities. We are convinced that there are many women who can be there and who must be there. But that photograph, as Mr. Vice President explained, was incomplete because, actually -- as he said -- if more women are going to be incorporated into the board of directors and besides -- and it's not a minor issue, and it's quite important -- the general director is going to be a woman. And he asked for caution on a matter of confidentiality, and I think we should respect it. We must respect the times and times so that this woman can face up to that important task as it is to preside over and lead that driving society to the next generation funds. As is known by all and all, who have the greatest weight in societies are the CEOs, the people who are general directors, the people who carry out the business strategy and the ones who provide the means to carry it out. And his office focuses both on the relationship with the rest of the staff and on the transmission of information and, more importantly, on decision-making. You were talking about women's decision-making, Mrs. Díaz. I believe that it is essential that there is a woman in this area in front of society who makes decisions and who directs the strategy, because we are all aware -- and we see it in the Reactivation Commission -- that this crisis that we are facing -- not only health, but economic and social -- basically affects more feminized sectors. There are many women in a precarious situation, and it is essential that this society, which will promote fundamental and very important projects for Galicia, has not only a gender perspective for its situation, but also a woman's perspective. And the board of directors is still an advisory council. They are advisers, and the responsibility and burden of decision-making lies with the CEO, who is the person who occupies the most important position of the company and who sets out the strategies. I ask them not to worry only about a photo but that they really have a height of look and value other questions that are behind this picture. Because, behind this picture, there's a lot of work, there's a commission of economic experts who's been working in Galicia since the first moment of the economic crisis, a commission of economic experts who's put in place and who has driven the Galician Union and who's been working from the first moment on those projects that are here today to see the light and to be funded. And, in that sense, we also ask you to cooperate, Mrs Díaz, so that Galician government should not discriminate against itself in financing these funds and should be seen with sufficient funding to promote measures and projects that really affect the Greek society in general, but women in particular, because, as I said before, they are the ones most affected by the economic crisis. A picture can't be an excuse to cover this up, a discrimination that Galicia can suffer because money is diverted to other territories for the purposes of which we all know. So what we have is the obligation to push the economy towards greater employability of women, which, in fact, Mrs. Díaz, is what really matters. But if we keep talking about female presence at representational posts in the Galician Union, there's no more to look at the positions of the second level of the German Government. The German Autonomous Administration has five women in front of the nine councils that make up the Government. And if we go down to the level of general directions, three of these five councils -- three of the five, Environment, Territory and Living, Sea and Employment and Equality -- are all formed by women. And following the balanced approach of presence, therefore, man! we would be failing 40 percent of a gender representation, but in this case the male, because 100 percent of the general directors of these three councils are women. And with regard to the whole Union and also taking into account the Presidency and the two vice-presidents, almost half of them -- more than 40% that demand the balanced presence of what you were talking about -- 45.3% of your general secretariats and general addresses -- 29 of 64 -- are led by women, and 56.2% of your staff -- self-employed -- councils and agencies -- are women's people. I also want to point out that many of the bodies dependent on the board, holding directors or managers, have women in front of them. And of the 89,774 staff members who have the Galician board, 64,139 are women. We're talking about 71.4 percent of the working people in Galicia, who are women. Speaking of societies, entities and foundations of the Greek administration, because today there are 186 women who participate in these societies; they represent 40% of the total. And there are 280 men, 60.09 percent. So it's true that we have to move forward towards a greater female presence, but I think the balance, in this case, is being given. You in the motion ask that the participation of women under Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March be applied as an obligation for the Galician Union as a recommendation for the General Administration of the State. You well know that law applies to the General Administration of the State and not to autonomous communities, and you are asking that this recommendation for the General Administration of the State be applied as an obligation for the Galician Union. That's what you ask in your point 1. We, as a promotion, as progress and so on, would agree, and so on, apart from our amendment, if we wish, can reach some agreement on this matter, because it does not seem proportionate that we legislate above an organic law and that we come to an agreement where we put a matter of maximums above what the organic law itself establishes. And you ask in point 2 that the Union does not participate in any society in which these criteria of recommendation are not met, when in many of these societies the State is present and that balance is not met. So we ask that the Union continue to be present in those societies, in those bodies, but the Union must ensure that the balance is met and participates. If you don't participate from outside, you will hardly be able to encourage and advance in balance and parity. We have tabled, Mrs Díaz, an amendment in line with what the law of the State of 2007, says, not only the law of the State of 2007, but also the Greek law itself and the Legislative Decree 2/2015 to promote and promote the equality and balanced presence of women and men. You said he came out in a proactive spirit. I take his glove and I think, ladies and gentlemen, we can make a deal here today. If what really matters and what we really want and we are looking for in these debates is to reach agreements and consensus, I have the hand to reach agreement on this subject and to move forward in the pursuit of real equality. If they want to have a reason for confrontation and criticize the Union, they won't find us there. But I think that is not the debate and I believe that we have recently reached very important agreements in the area and in the area of equality. So I think we can follow that line and, if you consider it that way, we can reach a consensus. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I also want to transfer them on my own behalf, but above all to the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, once again, our condolences for the death of Mrs. Isaura Abelaras, and also our appreciation for all the work she has done, throughout her political trajectory, specifically in the struggle for equality and women's rights. [[Applause]] But also, if you'll excuse me, I'll break the script a little bit. There's a film director from the New Cinema in Brazil called Glauber Rocha -- wonderful, and he was also in CineEurope, here in Santiago de Compostela, in one of his editions -- who said, "The role of the artist is violent." And I would add to his word -- taking, in addition, his profession -- "and breaking the frame, breaking the script." I'm going to bring in my intervention three reflections with that Glauber Rocha prism that the artist's role is violent, and I'm going to take also the spirit of his interpellation in what he has to do with the company created by the Galician Board to decide the future -- an important part of the future -- of this country and what it has to do with the formation or materialization of these next generation funds, the European reconstruction funds. The first reflection that you have to do with that photograph -- and I also take a sentence that Mrs. Prado used to say in her speech -- is, look behind the picture. Well, let's look behind the photo, too. First reflection: in fact -- and taking what Mrs. Díaz said in the petition -- there is discrimination in that board of directors, in that "chiringuit" which the People's Party has set up so that their friends and their friends' companies will decide the future of this country. And it is clear that such discrimination exists by looking at the picture, by pure statistics and pure probability. Women account for 52% of the population of Greece. Any space, any one, in which there is not a single woman represented, is a discriminatory and exclusive space, and as such, antidemocratic. Women's rights are fundamental rights, their denial, their violation or non-recognition of those rights is simply anti-democratic because they attack the fundamental rights of more than half the population of this country. That picture -- from the board of directors of this chiringuito more private than the public that mounted the board -- is a symptom -- looking beyond the photo -- and it's the reflection of something that's happening and that's happening in recent years not only in Galicia: and there's a lot of speeches to wash the face -- that's called purplewashing feminism or pinkwashing -- but, in truth, power continues in the same hands as ever, and not only when we talk about gender; it's still in the same hands as women who won't question how that power is exercised or what interests it responds, because they defend the same interests. Here the second reflection: being a woman does not in itself define certain behaviors or attitudes, nor does it predetermine ideologies. In other words, not all women are Alexandra Kollontai, who are asking Margaret Thatcher. Of course, I, by preparing this intervention, remembered Margaret Thatcher's greatest intervention. She was a woman, no doubt the first woman to be prime minister of the United Kingdom, the only woman in that government, her government, and she was the only one by decision, by conviction. A powerful image. The image has a fundamental value in our societies that remains for history, and precisely itss was: alone, dressed in blue and surrounded by all those men, who so well represented the series of The Crown. Thatcher is a good example of how you can not break glass ceilings, but cross them and pull the ladder behind it so that no one else can climb up for them. Thatcher was a woman and antifeminist. This is not an opinion, it was an anti-feminist declared, which is seen in a phrase also famous, almost as much as she herself: "I make you feminism" -- I said -- I hate feminism. "Ist's poison," it's poison. She was a woman, but she exercised power more forcefully and attacked the rights of the working class, of the British social majority, even of the people -- and there she is for the memory also of Ireland -- much more than anyone before her. Where do I want to go with this? We return to Glauber Rocha: "The role of the artist is violent." Where do I want to go? If in the board of directors of this chiringuito company that had assembled the People's Party in Galicia's Union were Ana Patricia Botín, the Koplowitz sisters or Marta Ortega, would we feel more represented? I already tell you no, because the cause of the problem is the very nature of that company and many other municipalities of administration. The objective for which it is created is to introduce, in this particular case, the political decision centre, that economic power that does not present elections; that is to say, to put a chair in the Council of the Union to companies selected to finger, friends, in addition to the political power of this country, with the objective that those who have not presented themselves to the elections -- which is what the People's Party is preparing with that company more private than public, with that chiringuito -- these companies, design, trace and decide the future of Galicia, the productive model of this country, and of course to bring a good piece of the inefficient amount of public resources that will be mobilized in the coming years for that economic reconstruction. [[Applause]] First it was the bank in 2008 and now it will be the IBEX companies that benefit from this economic and social crisis. That's what the People's Party is setting up for. [[Applause]] It's discriminatory, of course, that there's no woman in that board of directors, but, the fact of speaking, it wouldn't make her a feminist company, no. Because there are things that unite us as a genre, that's not the slightest doubt, no doubt, but it must also be equally clear that ideology and social class exist and that there are economic factors that determine women's oppression. Indeed, this crisis -- and the previous one -- has hit the workers enormously, the working women, but it's not going to be Naturgy, the private part of Reganosa, Index or Abanca who hit or left behind that economic model, that economic structure which is the one that destroys, loses or denies women's rights and makes us exactly the ones that we ended up paying the broken plate, one crisis after another. [[Applause]] It's with those economic factors that we have to finish with. In other words, "Women can become truly free and equal only in a world organized through new social and productive lines" -- this phrase is from Kollontai, this is from 1907-- not from the hand -- I insist -- of Naturgy, Abanca, the private part of Reganosa or other great transnationals. It should be this Parliament -- and here if all the diversity of society in this country is represented, not just because of gender -- who decided, along with the Government of the Union and other public participation bodies such as the Economic and Social Council, which will be the lines on which economic and social reconstruction will be triggered, after this huge crisis that is still on us. And there's the third reflection, so as not to lose your perspective. You created nothing -- nothing! -- a private company to decide and condition projects that are financed by public funds; a private company running and piloting the future of the social majority of this country. It is a democratic scandal of unexpected proportions. [[Applause]] But it's funny that it generated greater controversy and public scandal in this country than the People's Party in Madrid, that Mrs. Díaz Ayuso -- look at this!, which also says a lot about the society and the system in which we live -- launched a public bidding process for a private company to manage the Next Generation in Madrid. Remember? Well, much more than the fact that the People's Party here, without concert or bidding and absolutely nothing -- there's nothing! -- had created ad hoc a private chiringuit to pilot the future of this country. They believe so much in the private company -- someone said it before in an intervention -- so much they believe in the private company, that they put it to rule directly, replacing the functions of the Government and Parliament with a chiringuit, so that three companies -- three! -- selected finger -- at the season, Abanca, Naturgy and the private part of Reganosa -- cut the cod on European funds and so they decide what the reconstruction of this country will be like; without women, but neither are the workers, the workers, the social majority. [[Applause]] And in case someone didn't realize it, the decisions that are made now and the ones that are interested in it will mark the next decades of all of them. We are going to vote in favour of this proposal, understanding also the margin you have to negotiate with the amendment tabled by the People's Party. We're going to vote in favour. We believe we have to occupy the spaces that correspond to us by right. I said this at the beginning of my first intervention: we are more than half the population. The space we are not represented in is directly antidemocratic, but the tree does not prevent us from seeing the mountain. There is much more than the absence of women in that photograph: it is who will decide and who will be interested to respond to the decisions that adopt that economic power which is not presented to the elections and to which they have just put a chair on the board of the board. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's group, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u49	Thank you, President. We would like to thank you for the positive vote of the Galician Nationalist Block. Of course, I'm not going to go into that debate that you put here, on the table, Mrs. Rodil. It is not, of course, today, the debate that we bring with this motion. And it's not good to get into that picture either. You see, if it was my appeal to the advisor, but I didn't want to enter that photo today, I didn't mean to make any comment today, although, in the end, I'm going to have to do it, because they're trying to justify themselves with that supposed general director, but the reality is that everyone understood -- and so we understand it -- that is a justification, from our point of view, of the injustifiable. We thank them for rectifying, but, please, we, and I, of course, as a woman, don't always want to be a rectification, so we don't understand very well that they keep arguing around. About the amendment. Mrs. Prado, we can't accept this amendment because it really doesn't say anything. It speaks of encouraging and encouraging, and that, precisely, is what we have not seen here, but a little bit on the contrary, to stop encouraging, to stop giving speeches, to work as an example, to that task that we have of exemplaryness, and to really try to cut off that encouragement. So let us not doubt his will to continue the search for parity. Besides, thank you... I was very convinced here that the women of the People's Party did not like that picture either, but this amendment is not what we propose, because, in fact, in this way it is deverted, it remains contentless; with its amendment, what we intend to do, which is to lay down their duties, commitments, to the Government of Galicia, to the Council of Galicia, to the self-government. You talked about figures, about lots of figures, but, of course, the question here is not as quantitative as qualitative; that's the question. I can put numbers too. You were talking about three councils where there are only women, and I'm telling you that there are also three councils where there are only men, and also with quite a few more people in these second-level positions. If we make a quantitative calculation, you finally get the worst stops. So we didn't want to talk about this right now. What surprises us is that if they're so convinced and so convinced of what we're talking about here today, I don't know why they're so afraid to talk about this compliment or commit to that fulfilment of what we're saying. If, as you assure us, they're fulfilling it, we understand that they won't have any problem approving this which we're proposing here today. If I wanted to mention Mrs. Rodil's speech. I can understand what you said and even share it, but if it's true that here we're talking about another question, our view, and it's another matter of visibility, the visibility of these women. We need spaces for them to be referents, for us to appear as referents for other women, even if we have to meet in the mirror and meet with Margaret Thatcher. But Margaret Thatcher was also a woman; antifeminist indeed did, but she was a woman who was where she was. So, yes, certainly, at best, not so much for us women, who we know our potential, but these referents are necessary precisely for men, so that men may see that there are women who can reach wherever they are, even if they are not, precisely, those who will fight for our rights probably on many occasions. That was our intention. As I say, the issue of women's visibility in decision-making centres is a social problem that exists, and it has also been made manifest here by the three groups, and it seems unacceptable -- that is why we say it -- in democracy, because it is a major obstacle to social development. We don't want -- from there our motion -- that the idea of balanced representation becomes a mere concept that is taken into account; no, we want it to be a sine qua requirement not of the action of public administrations and the composition of the different decision-making bodies. And is it a measure of positive discrimination? Probably, and probably and hopefully we'll be able to make this no longer necessary, but right now we think it is. We said two weeks ago -- and we repeat it -- that the balanced participation of women and men in decision-making is vital for equality, and, in addition, one of their first steps, to fail to fulfil this balanced participation, is that we will continue to perpetuate stereotypes of gender that we want to banish and that are on many occasions due to inequalities that often, unfortunately, end up in violence. Breaking the glass ceilings that prevent women from occupying positions of responsibility is not only a question of social justice, but also, as I say, it contributes to breaking the stereotypes on which machismo is based. The absence of women in decision-making positions is finally generating those models of inequality that nothing facilitates the good functioning of democracy. We've already said that the other day too -- ended already -- and we're not stopping repeating it -- in the PSdeG we're not going to stop repeating it -- that's how we apply the cross-sectionality of equality to political action; that's precisely this. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the protection of natural heritage and biodiversity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u51	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u52	Good morning. Thank you, President. I have a question for you. The truth is, I'm intrigued, to see if you can answer: Is the Environmental Council still in existence? Because really the environmental advisor is missing, missing. It doesn't appear in the plenary, it doesn't look like a face, and the truth is it doesn't surprise us, because, with which it's falling, the number of mega-projects that are threatening and invading the natural spaces and the Greek countryside, it doesn't surprise me that it's lying under a table and won't want to appear in Parliament. They are indeed projects, industrial mega-projects, which threaten and invade the rural environment and the natural environment. And, look, to prove this, I'm going to give you some examples. Do you see these products in my hand? They are products of excellence from the Italian countryside, specifically from Casa Grande de Xanceda. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows milk products.]] Well, these products, this project, are threatened by an wind farm and an electrical substation. That's right, and if you don't, you're going to tell the Big House of Xanceda, which has already been knocked at the door of the Industrial Councillory to say that this is an aberration. This is what they're doing with a model village. This is a truly model village, not those of propaganda that are riding, and they want to drop it down, they want to destroy it with an absolutely aberrant project. This is the People's Party's Wind Plan. But it's not only in the County of Order, that we can say it's a sort of zero zone of the wind invasion. This is also happening in the county of the Xallas, in the district of the Ten, in the district of Terra de Montes... in a number of municipalities in the country that are suffering from this wind invasion. And this is an aberrant plan, they have to take it, they have to recognize it. People, besides, are living with despair, living with anguish, living with suffering, and voting with them exactly the same. The Group of the People's Party goes wrong with its obsolete plan, with its antiquated and irrational plan. And let one thing be clear: they'll have to change it yes or yes; we'll change it because we won't allow it. Because, in addition, this plan has nothing to do with what was written in 2001 when the sectoral wind plan was finally approved; it changed technology and also changed environmental legislation. And I'm going to give you just one example: the distances of the mills with respect to the inhabited nuclei. It has nothing to do with a mill of 60, 70 meters high, like those that were done 15 years ago, with mills of nearly 200 meters high that are projected and installed now. The height of the Rande Bridge -- for comparison -- is 152 meters. We're talking about mills that are 180-200 meters high, a real aberration! And you're still the same, wrong that you're wrong, you don't change distances with respect to the inhabited nuclei. And you know why? Because Junta, because the People's Party, because Mr. Faixóo rules at the service of the big energy lobby companies and does not defend the people of this country, the rural part of this country, that's the reality. [[Applause]] The vigouring plan of the People's Party, which has been modified over time on numerous occasions, which has nothing to do with the 2001 plan, turns out to be a plan that has two characteristics: it's a plan against the countryside and it's a plan against nature. It's a plan against rural people, which can literally lead to the expulsion of many people from rural areas, which has their life plans and work projects there. Indeed, because the location of the parks is changing with respect to those that were made fifteen or twenty years ago. They're up -- as we saw in these chaos, in many cases -- of agricultural holdings. You were supposed to create a natural resources policy department or a rural depopulation department, because this is the risk. They should call things by name, they should create the General Directorate for Rural Extermination. So of course, I call things by name, without rounds. In addition, it is a plan against nature, a plan which, as it is intended, if carried out, would lead to irreversible damage in spaces and habitats and which the European Commission tells them are of priority interest, that they should be protected. There is a mandate from the European Union that you are failing to comply with. In 2008, an extension of the Natura Network was initiated, which provides for the protection of 18% of the territory of Greece. You paralyze her, and in 2012 they started a new treatment that provides for the protection of 15.2% of the territory of Greece. I have here the OAG of January 2, 2012, which published this process of enlargement of the Natura Network, and literally said, "After a long period of time since the publication by the European Commission of the two decisions of 2004 and 2006, it is urgent to initiate the procedures to complete the Natura 2000 network and thus fulfil the Commission's mandate" - January 2, 2012--. It is urgent to initiate the proceedings to complete the Natura 2000 Galician Network. It's been ten years and we're still in it, because you paralysed this plan because it was against the interests of the energy lobby. Those are the ones who command, those are the ones who decide, and those are the ones who give them the orders. [[Applause]] But I'll tell you more. The DOG of January 1, 2012, one day before this CEO of the expansion of the Natura Network, published the additional fifth provision of the Wind Development Act, which said: "Suspendance of wind farms processing in the expansion of the Natura Network. The announcement of the public exhibition of the proposed extension of the scope of the Natura Network will in itself determine the suspension of the authorization procedure for wind farms located in whole or in part in the territorial area of the object of enlargement". What did you guys do? Did they suspend the wind projects? No, what they suspended was the expansion of the Natura Network. It's a real scandal! If it's not prevariation, it looks like a lot, and BNG will report it wherever it is necessary, also in front of the European Commission. Look, in the face of abuse, in the face of prepotence, in the face of the predation with which this process is leading, this plan, there's a real cry, a social revolt, which was manifested last June 5 in the streets of Compostela. You don't seem to want to see it. And it's not only in the streets of Compostela, it's throughout much of the country, in many parts of the country, because people are turning against this policy, against this abuse, and also in many of the People's Party councils, which are approving motions and allegations against these parks. And if you read any of those agreements here, you'd turn them red. Then, if I have time, I might as well read some. But it has nothing to do with what's happening now with what happened 15 years ago, 10 or 20 years ago. Then there was no such opposition. Why? Why wasn't there this opposition then? Because it had nothing to do with what was being programmed back then with what is being programmed now. And it's not only the social cry of the people who are turning around, it's also what the university of Galicia is telling them through the Galician Wind Observatory, which is telling them the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which is calling them "aggressors." It's absolutely aberrant; it's absolutely delusional and irrational. That's why the BNG brings here a series of proposals to put a stop to this disincentive. These are constructive proposals, proposals in a positive way, proposals that defend rationality and proposals that defend the balance between the environment, the social and the economy; proposals that can be summarized in that motto which is already very extended from: "elic yes, but not so". And these proposals that we bring to this motion can be summed up in three specific questions: First, to apply the precautionary and prevention principles of climate change, which are actually in legislation, are in state legislation and also in Galicia, the problem is that you don't apply them in these projects. The whole plan had to be submitted to these principles, and they don't. Just like the prevalence of environmental protection over urban management, which they don't apply either; it's in the law and it's in the hole. Secondly, proposals for the protection of biodiversity, because biodiversity must be seen as a protective shield, as a collective life insurance. That's why we propose the expansion of the Natura Network with deadlines and also spaces for protection, following international recommendations. We also propose that the Green Infrastructure Strategy begin at once, to shield ecological connectivity between protected spaces, and that the Nature Conservation Fund be created. And finally, we propose the protection of water and wetlands, which are fundamental to predicting climate change. PP has to choose which side it is on. The BNG is clear, it is on Galicia's side, on the environmental protection side, on the rural side and, above all, on the people's side, which is turning against these abusive projects. We've got it clear. You'll also have to assume the consequences, if they follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u53	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. With this proposal from the World Environment Day itself, it is necessary to reflect on the role of Galicia in the light of the idea of the new Green Pact, which has been developing in the world for more than a decade, but which has become of utmost importance in recent times. Europe, with its green agenda, wants to lead that transformation. China, which is used to planning in the long term, is showing a lot of strength to enter the energy and ecological transition, from a highly polluting economy. And in the United States, Joe Biden's victory and his movements on the line of a clearly ambitious green bet eliminate a huge obstacle to global political development, like Trump's negationism, in the world's first power. Three geopolitical blocks aligned towards a fundamental change for mankind. And Spain went from Rajoy's denial to the active commitment of the current progressive government: the idea that the ecological transition is not optional, but inevitable, and that our country must act to stand in the vanguard of that process. For his band, Galicia, which has clear advantages for this global change, fails in vision and political will. The board's environmental budget is 199 million euros in 2021, much less than the 295 million in 2009 of the last Government Tourin, when they've passed, nothing more and nothing less than twelve years; twelve years in which we went back like the crabs. We are the last community in Spain -- the last one!-- on surface protected by the Natura 2000 Network, with less than half the state average, and the current wind expansion affects areas that should be part of the future expansion of that network, postponed more than a decade. We are far from European targets in waste recycling, the quality of our waters leaves much to be desired after twenty-one years of supervision of the EU Water Framework Directive and our mountain is rapidly replaced by a monoculture of eucalyptus with intense loss of biodiversity and with the Union looking shamelessly elsewhere. Because the reality of Galicia's environmental policies is that spaces are painted protected in a single and exclusive role because there is a European Union that sets out objectives and environmental protection regulations. And the former environmental advisors of the People's Party end up in Ence, or in renewable energy companies-- by the way, in the case of former advisor Bea Mato, without a sense, less than a year and a half after leaving Galicia's board -- and the constitutional right to the environment becomes wet paper in Galicia and it slops every day of the year. We have the smallest Natura Network in Spain, the huge distance from the rest of the autonomous communities. Our land surface, which is included in the Natura Network, does not reach 12 %; it is therefore less than half the state average, which is 27.35 %, according to official data. And on December 20, 2011, as Mr Bará mentioned, Junta issued a press release that day collected by Europe Press in the following terms: "Galicia will complete its Natura 2000 Network before the summer, which will pass from 12% to 15% of the territory" --December 2011--. And the 2nd of January 2012 put it white on black in the Official Journal of Galicia, literally saying by the Directorate General of Conservation of the Nature of the Union that it is urgent to start the proceedings to complete the Natura 2000 Galician Network. It was urgent in 2011. That is, in 2011 and 2012, the Autonomous Government of the People's Party itself, chaired by Mr. Feijóo, recognized the urgency of initiating proceedings to complete Galicia's Natura 2000 Network, but we never knew that enlargement again. With the particularity that in the largest report on the Natura Network published in Spain by the WWF organization, which analyzed the management of the Natura 2000 Network in autonomous communities, Galicia was in Spain's last position. And WWF considered -- and I quote literally -- that "Galicia counts on the worst space management plan of Spain's Nature Network." And he pointed to the head of WWF's Nature Network on those dates with regard to Galicia's Director Plan that "is the worst planning. Many agree that you can't even call it a management plan," he said on those dates to head of WWF's Nature Network. Two of Galicia's six natural parks don't even have a management plan. The Natural Park of the Strawberries of the Eume -- an emblematic space that has been for twenty-three years without the fundamental instrument for the protection and management of a natural park --, in respect of that park, said the other day Mr. Feijóo who hopes it will be possible in 2022. A real takeover of hair to citizenship and Galician society! In the case of the Lower Lime-Serre du Jurés Natural Park, the situation is even worse, because it has been for twenty-eight years without a master plan of use and management, when the Galicia Nature Conservation Act establishes in its article 35.4 the legal obligation to approve these plans within two years of the declaration of the park. If we talk about biodiversity, Galicia has two hundred threatened species, seventy-five of which are in danger of extinction, and the State Biodiversity Act of the year 2007 establishes the obligation to adopt a recovery plan for threatened species within a maximum of three years since its inclusion in the corresponding catalogue. But Galicia only has recovery plans for three of the seventy-five endangered species. One shows more of the total, complete and absolute determination of the Board in environmental matters, and also, by the way, of the unheard contempt for the existing legislation, which, in environmental matters, is flagrantly in various respects, in many respects. The BNG initiative picks up the proposal for a new wind model for Galicia that is more social and ecological, which we think is good, as we have already put forward a document with a series of proposals to change Galicia's current wind model within the powers of the Union. And with regard to the environmental issue, we put forward four concrete proposals that were rejected in the 2nd Commission on Thursday last, which were the following -- and by the way, we admitted to voting by points, which we told you, gentlemen of the People's Party, and gave them the same -- : First, paralyze the deployment of wind projects in areas included in the Natura 2000 Network expansion forecast. The PP voted against. Secondly, submit environmental and strategic assessment of the wind plan, which is 1997 or draw up a new plan to be subject to strategic environmental assessment. Because, incredibly, a plan of silence or the importance of the Galician Wind Plan has never been subjected to strategic environmental assessment, nor will it be, because you are not interested at all in analyzing the overall impact of wind in Galicia. That's why the PP voted against. Thirdly, we proposed maximizing rigour in environmental assessments of projects that are developing in our territory, and the PP voted against. I mean, he voted against rigour in the environmental assessment of the projects, which is for the note. Fourthly, to increase the minimum distance of wind installations from farms and livestock farms to compensate for the tendency to install larger and larger mills. Of course, the PP voted against. As for wetlands, Decree 127/2008, so the legal regime of protected wetlands of Galicia develops, establishes the legal obligation for the autonomous administration to create, regulate the Galician Wetlands Inventory. Despite this legal obligation, twelve years after the entry into force of this standard, there is no such inventory; there is no directly. And outside the five wetlands theoretically protected by the Ramsar Convention, the rest of Galician wetlands, which are more than a thousand hundred, of high ecological importance, do not exist for the Welsh Administration either, so usually they are not even taken into account in environmental impact declarations. But in a maximum example of their absolute cynicism and landslide, each year the Union celebrates World Humidian Day, talking about its importance with the corresponding photo and press release. And wetlands are of particular importance in the fight against climate change, because they act as carbon sinks, uniquely turbulence. And climate change is, without the slightest doubt, the greatest threat to humanity, to the extent that the climate directly or indirectly determines all aspects of our lives. And when the practice of all the autonomous communities of Spain and the state itself declared the climate emergency, you refuse to declare it, despite your own approval of a resolution in this chamber, precisely to declare the climate emergency in the debate of the state of Autonomy of 2019, and that you have not even been able to comply. These are, therefore, the environmental policies of Galicia's PP: predation of territory, destruction of biodiversity, covert climate negationism, green propaganda, eco-posture and rotational doors. That is why and for other reasons, we will vote in favour of this BNG proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u55	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Bará, again Nature Network, windy... we don't know anymore, do we? From the People's Parliamentary Group, I believe that since the beginning of the legislation, and especially the activity of this May, in particular in the Commission -- both in plenary and in committee -- I believe that these issues have been adequately addressed. Or, in any case, sometimes the doubts we're raised are if they really don't value those answers, because they don't obviously listen to what they'd like or want to hear. I really find it hard to understand that I had not heard about when we dealt with this issue in the Commission on May 18 and with regard to the enlargement of the Natura Network; that I had not listened to the director general on that same commission, speaking of the wind farms and their insistence on the involvement of the Natura Network; or that I had not heard the second vice president, Mr. Conde, when he explained to her since this very atrial on May 26th, which was the environmental commitment of the Union. I think if you haven't heard it, or didn't understand it well enough, I'll try to repeat a series of fundamental ideas. The Greek Government has an unbreakable commitment to protection, conservation and improvement of the environment and natural heritage. No distinction, Mr Bará, no distinction and no partisan or partisan filters. Because when we talk about the environment, the German Government looks forward with the attention it's always going to have to do, because it's always going to have to do. And not hidden in his old alarmist speech that's distorting reality. But that he no longer deceives the Greeks and the Greeks, and to show the representativeness of this chamber. Formerly left his speech, Mr Bará, because there is an unbreakable commitment to our environment, a guaranteed and orderly development of the wind sector in Galicia. So much so that I repeat Mr. Conde's words when he said that we were pioneers in applying the environmental study procedure to wind farms. And also the vice president, for what he said today in his speech, I think he did listen to the reading of Galician Natural Heritage Law with that prevention and caution that appeared perfectly collected in the law. And you know so much -- or you should know -- that this law gives priority to environmental protection over both territorial and urban management. And it also lays down that caution in interventions that may affect Galician natural heritage and biodiversity. Yes, Your Honor, yes, Mr Bará, Mr. Aranguena, you know it, the Block knows it perfectly well, although you do not want to acknowledge it, that the German Government has the objective of making economic activity compatible with the preservation of the environment. So it is, ladies and gentlemen, and I will repeat to you that there is no wind park provided for in protected ecosystems, as much as they insist on saying so, and that the Galician Union has not put any new wind park into operation in Natura Network spaces since 2009. None, ladies, none. And don't worry if I'm talking so much about Mr. Conde -- as you said you were missing the Environmental Advisor, who is with his schedule, or the Director General of Heritage -- because the difference between others, which not all can say the same, the Greek Government has already been told to speak with a single voice. That's why I'm also going to talk to you about what the Environment Council tells you about exhumation, its government programme about the environment. Mr Bará, as was said earlier this morning in the first motion, all wind farms are subject to specific environmental assessment procedures, including the allocations to priority habitats or Community interest. In environmental processing, the principle of prevention applies to those habitats that require it, such as turbulence or associated habitats to ensure their conservation. Since its origin, environmental legislation provides for social participation in the assessment of the impact of wind farms, ensuring the intervention of any person and body affected or interested. This provincial information network is also created so that municipalities can know about future projects before they start processing. The Galician Union therefore advocates the orderly development of that wind energy with the highest technical, legal and environmental guarantees. And all this is despite Mr. Sánchez's government, Mr. Arangüena, who is only trying to generate chaos with a regulation that causes a call to rise in Galicia wind farms even where legislation does not permit it. The Socialist Government insists on evaluating projects of wind farms reported negatively by the Union. Thus, while Mr. Sánchez's Government wants to promote wind farms in areas of utmost sensitivity, where at most they tell the promoters that it is not highly recommended... the difference that in Galicia are prohibited. The Galician Union does not allow these parks in these protected spaces, gentlemen, in the turbid habitats or in the flying areas of the royal eagle. On the enlargement of the Natura Network, too, Mr Bará and Mr Arunguena, I believe that it has been sufficiently explained in Commission 2 of 18 May. Time is scarce, and at any rate, I repeat to you that the evaluations of different spaces are being carried out for the determination of these enlargements. And there's no delay; of course there is, because it's a continuing work that takes many months and a lot of work. And with regard to all the issues you speak of protection, preservation of the environment, it is reflected in that budget of the Directorate-General for Natural Heritage with an increase of 8%, which is the clearest and best proof of the strong commitment of the Council of Galicia to the protection of its natural heritage. It has also doubled the budget with regard to the drafting of technical proposals for plans and management instruments for natural conservation spaces. An budget that allows protected spaces mostly to continue to bet on their protection and allocate about four million euros for aid to the conservation of these spaces. In 2021, the Environmental Council, ladies and gentlemen, will complete the renewal of the park management instruments; instruments for which you so much ask. It is about to approve the Corrubedo dunes park and lakes of Carregal and Vixán, and will soon be left The Jurés and Fragas of the Eume. It is also working on the Strategic Plan of the Sacred Ribeira, launched in 2020 with an investment of three and a half million euros to implement ten measures corresponding to the economic dynamization of protected areas requested in its motion. In any case, the Council's budgets include parts for the preservation of biodiversity, creation and management of protected areas, aid to the Town Councils, landowners in the Nature Network, natural parks... Specific actions related to the conservation of rivers, Mr. Aranguena, and wetlands, which will also have a specific line of conservation actions in the Next Generation funds, with actions geared towards improving river habitat and improvements to the protection of fish species. And on the management of threatened species in Galicia, there are four management plans included in the catalogue, referred to the brown bear, the lusitanic subspecies of the writer of the canoes, the common turtle and the dune pill. Currently, Natural Heritage also has proposals for ninety-three species included in the catalogue, which, still without approved management plan, contain basic technical information that also applies to the conservation of these species. We're talking about the real eagle, the real apple, the crimped sea raven or endemic species of threatened flora in the areas of snakes of Melide. As for invasive exotic species, we need to clarify that Galicia has a technical proposal for this plan, a strategic management plan. This framework also develops a risk analysis system, which is the technical tool for designing and prioritizing proposals for management of these species. Since 2012, it has acted on a total of 19 exotic species, including outreach actions, both in educational centres and for citizenship in general. And it's also working for this year on an update on this proposal with the corresponding bidding of the necessary studies. The Galician Union will continue to defend its natural spaces and a delicately windy development. As you've done so far, because, unfortunately, Galicia has come to be a reference at the state level. Galicia has great potential to be a green energy reference and natural heritage, because we have privileged natural resources; because we have experience in its use and solvent projects to opt for European funding; because we have a responsible government, it guarantees for the environment and other economic activities; because we continue to work on the assessment of spaces for the determination of this enlargement of the Natura Network, and because there is a budgetary increase to comply with Galicia's commitment to natural environmental protection. We'll talk about this again, I don't have the slightest doubt. Because I'm not sure you're going to follow your catastrophic and alarmist speech. They'll ask again, but I also tell them from here that from the People's Parliamentary Group we won't tire of responding either. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Bará has the floor for the group that is the author of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u58	Mrs. Díaz Mouteira, I see that she likes us to bring these matters to debate. If you like it, we'll keep doing it. Tell you that no park is being processed in protected spaces. Of course, if I don't protect protected spaces, how will there be parks? You paralysed the enlargement of the Natura Network, paralysed it, when it was a mandate of the European Commission, it is a mandate. And there are currently thirty-five parks planned in spaces that should be protected; eleven of them in Sweden, where there are fifty-three formations of turbulence. How should I tell you? This is called "ecocidation," Mrs. Díaz Mouteira, you can't call it otherwise. Indeed, we are at the queue of the state and of Europe in the protection of natural spaces through this figure. We have 12% protected. Do you know how much you've protected Madrid? 40 percent. Here we go! And, of course, then you come up with this mackerel that thanks to the People's Party you can't put parks on Natura Network. That's fake. The ban on wind farms in spaces on Natura Network was adopted in 2007 with a decree passed by the Industry Council. I don't know if they have anything to say, they can go out there, there's a place dedicated to it. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that I was heading there to... And since they come here to assume that they have four threatened species protected by 200 one, when they've been ruling twelve years, when they've done studies worth 500,000 euros that are taken literally, how do they come here to say that?, how dare they say that? That it's not even four, that it's three, that the brown bear didn't finish the protection process. How dare you? You say we don't like your answers and that's why we bring them back, and again, and again initiatives. The problem is not that we don't like them; the problem is that people don't like them. You don't know, you don't like people living in rural areas who are being threatened by these projects. And by the way, they don't like many municipalities either, which they've told him clearly. [[Applause]] And you say they have a commitment to the heritage, to the natural heritage. You're lying, you're committed to the company's heritage in the energy sector, to that heritage they do have a good commitment. [[Applause]] And I don't know which part they don't understand, but of course there's a revolt, there's a rebellion, there's a social cry... [[Murmurs.]] There's a real social scream in many parts of Galicia, which was seen in the demonstration last June 5th. But it's always being seen on weekends, there's mobilizations. It's also being seen in allegations and in whole accords of the councils where you and the mayors of the People's Party rule. For something it will be. "Lalín calls for an wind moratorium." [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a photocopy from which he reads the headline.]] It was strange to Mrs. Marta Novoa that of the moratoriums. It's just that the Government of Lalin, which must be the most important government in the number of inhabitants you have, asks them for a wind moratorium, asks them to change, you and the central government, you have to say, both of you, because it's the same thing. It's not worth advice seeing that I don't have it for myself. For both of us. Well, Lalin. I have here the deal of Lalín, which -- I say -- if I read it to them, they fall in shame. [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House some documents.]] [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a photocopy from which he reads the headline.]] "Curtis supports neighbouring protests and demands the removal of the wind park Pena Shadow". Who rules in Curtis? Well, if I read them or the mayor of Oia, they would also like to: "The biosphere reserve claims to analyze the total impact of fifteen wind farms in its area." [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a photocopy from which he reads the headline.]] I'm not saying anymore! [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a photocopy from which he reads the headline.]] "The rural Galician mobilizes itself as never before against wind megaprojects that travel the whole geography." [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a photocopy from which he reads the headline.]] "Unanimous political and social rejection of the deployment of wind farms in A Baña". Of all political parties. Gondomar. [[Mr. Bará Torres takes a document into his hands.]] I have here the allegations of Cerdedo-Cotobade, another of his Star Town Councils, right? You know what they say? That's twenty-four allegations. The first is: We are therefore faced with an irregular fragmentation of the parks in which it affects environmental processing. The first one. It's twenty-four. I could keep going, but I don't have time. [[Mr. Bará Torres takes a document into his hands.]] I also have allegations from the Town Hall of the Road. What's got to happen for you to fall off the horse on the road to Damascus and assume you don't? "Eolic yes, but not like that!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This is the motto they have to deal with. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you that it's not just the rural people, it's not just the municipalities; it's also the Galician Wind Observatory, the University of Vigo, which is telling you that it's not, that they're wrong, that they're going against the middle, against the rural, against the people. You're also telling them the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which literally called them "aggressors." [[Murmurs.]] What else has to happen? If the same court calls them "aggressors" to companies and to the board, and it speaks of environmental deprotection. So let's make it clear that the BNG will continue on the same line of struggle, mobilization, until they change this plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u60	Like that song by Lluís Llach, L'estaca, I suppose they know it: "I'm sure you'll fall, you'll fall, you'll be able to free us."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u62	Then we'll do it. Thank you. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u63	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We begin by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Martín Seco García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to develop a new wind model for Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u64	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Susana Díaz Varela. There's a transaction to which all groups have arrived. Do you all know her or, if not, do I read her? [[The President shall show the House a written document.]] You all know her? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, then, if you all know her, we vote for this transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Do you want to vote for points? Do you accept a point vote? What points do you want to separate? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let us first vote on points 1 and 3. Vote of points 1 and 3 of the compromised text of the G.P. motion of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia in relation to the balanced participation of men and women in the bodies of the Administration and in the boards of directors of societies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. These two points 1 and 3 were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u65	We now vote point 2. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia in relation to the balanced participation of men and women in the bodies of the Administration and in the boards of societies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. That point 2 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u66	We now vote on the motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the performances to be carried out in Galicia in relation to the protection of natural heritage and biodiversity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u67	And we suspended the session until 6:00.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u68	The session is resumed with the third item on the agenda, non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the start by the Government of Galicia, in the last quarter of 2020, of the debate for the updating of the local Pact of Galicia within the Galician Commission for Local Cooperation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u69	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u70	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we socialists are once again taking an initiative with which we seek to reach a consensus from all parliamentary groups on a unanimous agreement to support the Greek municipalism; an agreement that recognizes the efforts of local governments to improve the quality of life of people living in their territory. The Socialists are trying to transfer an unequivocal message of recognition to the local governments of Greece from the Galician Parliament. For this reason, the Socialists bring an initiative that reproduces the demands adopted unanimously by all political groups within the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and reiterated over and over again by the entire Greek municipality. These twelve years of government by President Feijóo in the Galician Union have been characterized by many advertisements with a lot of publicity and much propaganda, using public media as if they were owned by the Galician People's Party, buying wills with public money in certain private media, while resource management, which are all and all of Galician, can qualify as very poor. For the Feijóo governments, one thing is what they say and another is what they do. Faced with the announcements of the Galician People's Party, the socialists, when we rule, fulfill the councils and show by facts that we are a municipalist party. Because we know that the municipalities are the closest administration and that, above political sectarianisms, local governments have to take care of their neighborhood. Because the Greek councils had to meet their neighbourhood by assuming the costs of improper competences that are of the Galician Union, particularly in education, health or social policies, among others. The Greek councils had to meet the new needs arising from the management of the crisis of the coward-19 by exponentially increasing their tasks to prevent the spread of the virus, without the Council of Galicia transferring them not one single euro, when the Autonomous Community has received from the Government of President Sánchez more than 1,258 million euros to deal with the consequences of the health crisis. The Government of Greece has already received EUR 735 million in June 2020; of these, EUR 418 million for health care, EUR 93 million for education and EUR 224 million to compensate for the reduction in economic activity. The Greek Government received from the State, from the Government of Pedro Sánchez, 17 million euros from the Extraordinary Social Fund for Dining Fellowships, Moratories in the payment of rents and loans and for social bonus in the electricity supply. In March of this year, the Government of the State of the Extraordinary Fund has just received €234.5 million to provide direct assistance to self-employed businesses and individuals. Also thanks to government negotiations in Brussels, Galicia can spend 272 million euros of the Feder funds to finance health expenses. While, from the Fegamp, from the FEM, from the Government Delegation to Galicia and from several deputies, they have been addressed to the Galician Council to ask them to immediately enable an extraordinary fund for local authorities, so that they could meet the needs of manifesto by the crisis resulting from the coward-19. And also receive 15% of the funds that autonomous communities receive from Europe through the REACH-EU or the Government of the State funds in direct support for pemex or autonomous. But, of course, during the management of this unprecedented pandemic, President Feijóo, instead of joining the Government of the State and next to the councils, and sum up efforts to fight all together and get out as quickly as possible and as unequal as possible of this triple crisis, for they decided to join efforts with other governments of their own political colour, led by their homonymous godmother Mrs. Díaz Ayuso, to crumble, harass and criticize in the face of such a situation of so much gravity as ever known. It's not the same for the German municipality when it governs the People's Party as when there's a socialist government in the Galician Union. When the Galician Union was ruled by President Emilio Pérez Touriño, within a few months of reaching power, in January 2006, it signed the local Greek Pact, in which the demands of the Fegamp were collected. It was one of the most important agreements for the Greek municipalities, which suggested an increase in the municipalities' participation in the incomes of the Galician Union, increasing the Local Cooperation Fund in more than 28 million in three years; in twelve years of Feijóo government in the Galician Union zero euros of increase in the Local Cooperation Fund. The local Covenant signed by Touriño established for the first time that the maintenance of child and primary education centres, health centres and peace judges is the responsibility of the Junta de Galicia, who has the exclusive competences in these matters. In twelve years of Feijóo's rule, these agreements have not yet been fully developed today. The President, Mr Touriño, has regularly convened the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, as set out in the Galician Local Administration Act, to act as a permanent body for coordination between the autonomous administration and the local authorities of Galicia. In twelve years of Feijóo government, for eight years he did not call once again the Galician Local Cooperation Commission. During these twelve years of government Feijóo, the Fegamp has unanimously adopted all political groups, also the People's Party, a series of agreements which have repeatedly been rejected by President Feijóo, and the initiatives brought by the Socialists to this chamber have been rejected again and again by the Members of the People's Party. Several of these agreements adopted by Fegamp were in February 2017, with matters for local funding, to reform the Law on Local Farms. In June 2020, the 2020-2022 Multifocus Action Plan, which called for means to get out of this health crisis as quickly as possible and without leaving anyone behind. The statements by the President of Galicia in May 2020, one year ago, after a meeting he had with the new President of the Fegamp and committed to delimiting and clarifying the powers of each administration. Or the presence of the President of the Fegamp in the Reactivation Commission in this Parliament, in which he reiterated once again the request of the law of participation in the income of the Autonomous Community, the review of the local Covenant and the impulse for a new local pact. But the reality, once again, is that the Galician Union, much announced and little work, much peak and little shovel. [[Applause]] Today, we socialists are once again carrying out an initiative to collect the agreements reached unanimously in the bosom of Fegamp and repeated year after year to the Council of Galicia of Nuñez Feijóo. And you, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, can decide whether they remain against the German municipality or if they will at one time allow the Greek municipalities to receive funding more appropriate to the budgetary needs they have to provide quality standards the services of their competition through a law agreed with the Fegamp. You may decide whether you want some of the county fees to be incorporated through aid, grants or agreements in the Local Cooperation Fund. And you are also decisive for common rules and bases to govern existing calls for grants and aid to the Greek municipalities. Or, on the other hand, they're going to allow the Galician Union to continue to distribute some of the public funds through a dedicated caciquil system, which favors some local municipalities that are of their own political colour. This caciquil distribution goes against the law of transparency and good government and goes against the Law of Galicia grants. And it's a statement that I'm going to prove once again with data: This is a breakdown of the municipal elections of 2019, according to the government that have local authorities. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows the House a leaflet with a circular color graph.]] These are the vice-presidency conventions in two years, 2019-2020. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo at the same time shows the Chamber another leaflet with a circular chart with more monocolored.]] Comparably it's quite enlightening. Rural Media Advisor, 2019 and 2021, because in 2020 there was no Rural Infrastructure Counsellor. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows the Chamber another leaflet with a chart to deal with the first.]] The vision is simply quite enlightening. The Galician Infrastructure Agency. The difference is enlightening. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows the House another leaflet with a chart to compare to the first.]] I mean, just with these four paintings I've just shown, 29 million euros distributed to you from various councils of the Galician Union, in which 8.5 of every ten municipalities benefited are the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u73	...and nine out of every ten euros distributed are for People's Party councils, without this distribution, by the daring system, caciquil, responding to a planning to alleviate the territorial imbalances existing in the Greek municipalities in physical, economic and social infrastructures that provide a balanced development of our territory. For my part, on this first turn, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Tabares Pérez Piñeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The result of this initiative, which certainly -- as Mrs Rumbo said -- is not very new and of the issues raised in the initiative, both implicit and explicit, gives rise to the following questions: do you really consider that there is a need to establish and dissociate the competences of the wrong municipalities with regard to those of the Galician Union? Do they exercise improper powers that are, to a large extent, leading them to a situation of financial insatiability? Do they consider the participation of local entities in state income and the elements that are integrated for their weighting and evaluation of the participation of the municipalities in this state income? Do you consider that the resources allocated to the Galician Union and the criteria for the distribution and system of distribution of these funds between the different local entities are fair? And finally, is there really a desire to solve these problems? If we agree with the answers to these questions, do we have a real will to carry out our role, the role of this parliament, the role as political representatives and to give solutions to local entities, or do we intend that legislation after legislation we saw these floral games, we saw these brilliant ones, if so, exhibitions, but that really have no practical effect and do not improve for nothing the life of our own and our representatives? From the BNG, and answering the first question, yes, it fulfils the determination of its own competences that condition, as this pandemic has shown, the economic and financial situation of our municipalities. From the local Covenant, signed on behalf of the Government of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Party 15 years ago, between the Galician Union and the Fegamp, represented by a mayor of the People's Party, it was indeed considered that it did not proceed that the councils continued with the maintenance of the primary and childhood education centres, neither with the assistance and drug addiction units, nor with the conservatories, nor with the health centres or the peace courts. By the way, the maintenance of the peace courts, if you go ahead with the reform that is being proposed from the State Government, will be unsustainable to the councils when they become municipal and judicial offices. During the pandemic, it was also felt the need to end this disunity that existed between local competences and the competences of the Galician Union. So, if we make a bit of memory, initially the board of Galicia, following the line that was and that had already begun to throw balloons out and share responsibilities between the others, it considered that the control of certain health measures corresponded to the municipalities. The Council of State said no, that it corresponded to the Council of Galicia. Well, then it was the Advisory Council and he said that it could correspond to the municipalities. And finally, the judges are saying that, in fact, competition corresponds to Galician Union. In any case, all this chaos, all this challenge regarding the control of health measures must be corrected by a determination of which powers correspond to the municipalities and which powers correspond to the board of Galicia. In fact, this is not something solely of the judges, it is not something exclusively of the Galician Advisory Council, it is something recognized by the Galician Union itself, which understands and must be working -- as stated in that audit, in that report of determination of which competences correspond to each individual. We, in our amendment, all we do is mark a deadline, so that within a legislate, or within twelve years, or within fifteen years, they don't have our and our successors to repeat these verbal games and floral games without any practical effect. We set the deadline for them: 2021. We also believe that it is necessary to review the participation of the Greek councils in the state's incomes, government who governs, governs in Madrid the Socialist Party or governs the People's Party. It's not fair to Galician citizenship, nor does it meet the current system with constitutional principles, the sacred Constitution, autonomy and financial adequacy. Today, any citizen of any Greek council is receiving an average of 20 % less than what is perceived in the state media. Today, with the current system it is not even paying back to the Greek municipalities with the population weight it corresponds to; population weight with respect to the territories of common regime. The actual cost of public services is not being weighed. An element as essential as dispersal may be or as it may be the aging of the population is not taken into account. If we recognize -- a peaceful issue -- that in Galicia there are half of the population nuclei that in the rest of the state, it is normal for this element to have in mind when assessing the cost of public services. Or even, speaking of my province, if in 60 percent of the municipalities in Ourense province, the population over 65 years old six times those municipalities that have a population under 16 years old, that results in a higher cost of public services. Cost that has to be offset by greater participation and weighting of these elements in state income. We also believe that it is necessary to clarify the annual participation and the criteria for distribution by means of a law involving the Greek municipalities in the revenue of the Galician Union. Here, I think it's also a matter that is obvious, and we also talk about setting a deadline, so that, with Fegamp, if you present in this Galician Parliament a draft law to reform the distribution -- I repeat -- of the municipalities in the resources of the Galician Union. In recent years, from 2009 until today, the Local Cooperation Fund, the only one that sets out objective criteria and certain criteria, the only one that allows the municipalities to know what they will receive and that they will receive it, not grow, does not change -- I repeat -- in the last fifteen years. The only thing they grow up is -- and for that I'm not very much -- you come up with nominalists, they're arbitrary or discretionary. Finalist grants that run counter to local autonomy. If these grants are finalists, who is really determining the destination of that departure is not the local entity itself, but it will be the granting entity. Non-competitive arrivals do not allow territorial cohesion, so it deepens in this existing gap, which is that those municipalities that have greater organizational capacity or even better internet connection will have greater chances of receiving these approaches than the municipalities that do not. So instead of going to territorial cohesion, we're going the opposite way. The agreements and nominal approaches, which are the ones that are growing, we already know, particularly in Ourense province, how useful they are for the People's Party. And I'm not going to take out any cheese, no drawing or anything, I'm just going to read them something that the Board of Auditors says about the 2018 exercise: "The procedure for granting grants most used by the House of Ourense was the direct award of nominatives in 84% of the cases. In 80 % of the procurement cases are smaller contracts, which in 70 % go to the same five companies, in any case amounting to EUR million." 2018 Board of Auditors. But, if we're going back exercises, and not those of the Galego Nationalist Block, but of its partner of government of Ourensan Democracy -- that lethal person they put as mayor, with whom they ruled, co-governed and continued co-governance -- says that 75% of the works of the provincial entity carry five companies. The fractionation of contracts allowed the provincial government to grant them finger. Before 2018. Therefore discretionality and prevarication possible in 2018 and also in previous exercises. Previous exercises as well as recent exercises. This time, neither the Galego Nationalist Block, but the Civio Foundation, which says regarding the Deputy of Ourense: "sign it as the Spanish public administration with more concessions of public contracts to the finger." So this is what can happen if there is no such financing law that gives security and transparency to public access. Finally and to finish, because they like those disjunctives so much, we've asked them another: they choose between justice and corruption. And, please, this time they change not only from thirst, but also from choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tabares. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tabares, speaking of Ourense, I would like to congratulate the daughter of the mayor of Verín, who has just brought out a ten-year opposition to his father's council, and the truth is that with a lot of suspended... No, we can also congratulate Mrs. Sonia Verdes in the Deputy of Lugo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth is, I'm sorry I'm not as smart as the women of the Socialist Party. Mrs. Sonia Verdes in Lugo and the daughter of the mayor of Verín, I congratulate the daughter, and I congratulate her father too, because she has a daughter the truth is that she is very ready. [[Applause]] Speaking of Ourense. Speaking of municipalism, the first thing we have to say about this matter, which is nothing new, is that we are aware of the assumption of inappropriate powers by different administrations. Therefore, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, the collaboration agreement between the Galician Union and the University of Santiago, which was signed in December 2020, which also counts with the collaboration of the Fegamp, in an audit for the delimitation of competences between the autonomous and local administrations, identifying the possible functional duplications and, above all, identifying the inappropriate competences that each administration is undertaking, as well as the respective economic costs, with particular attention to the competence framework related to the management of the pandemic caused by covid-19. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, of course we defend the municipality, the Greek municipality. And the People's Parliamentary Group, like the Galician Union, we also defend local autonomy and the adequacy of municipal farms. We share, of course, the need to move forward in a new model of self-financing, and also after the place. That's why it's a proposal that was in our July 12 election program, so we've reached the absolute majority in the last autonomous elections. And also, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I don't know what you've been doing for three years in Madrid, because when President Rajoy ruled, he has already done an expert committee, which, by the way, Galicia was represented by Mr. Santiago Lago Peñas, where they got a report and whether he was already negotiating with the autonomous communities the new model of self-financing, and you have completely stopped everything. You tell me what you're doing in Madrid; with the support of the Galician Nationalist Block, by the way, no, of course, you put this gentleman in the Moncloa, you forget that. Yeah, yeah, sure, yeah, yeah. [[Applause]] And you're here to pretend. No, no, of course I do. "The pact of Ana and Adriana," in case you don't agree. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, what's obvious... I didn't interrupt anyone, don't get nervous, that they're still a little bit left. [[Murmurs.]] Look: when it was Zapatero, who left us in the worst economic situation in Spain, they supported five consecutive budgets of the Government of Spain of Mr Zapatero, which led us to the economic crisis that we later experienced. They still have a little way to go! Don't worry that there'll be more interesting moments. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, I don't know why they get so nervous. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They rule with them in the Deputies. In the Lugo Parliament, where such things happen, Mr Tabares, they rule with them. In the Parliament of Pontevedra they rule with them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u78	Mr. Rivas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u79	Wherever they can, they rule with the Socialist Party. So don't you guys come here and put on a fake lamb's skin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u80	No, no, quiet. Don't come in, please. You have to be ready, don't come in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u81	They're constantly interrupting, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u82	We have to be able to listen. I think my duty is to protect whoever is in this gallery. That's why you all have to work together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u83	We must be tolerant, sir, tolerant, tolerant. Listen, now it's time to listen. I've heard. When I was there, there were a lot of things I didn't like either, but I heard, I didn't interrupt. What is evident is that President Feijóo's Government has made an important effort during the worst years of the economic crisis to maintain the funding of the municipalities, regardless of the settlement. And now he's still working on the hands of local authorities to move forward in coordination between administrations to provide more and better services to citizenship. And the current government has acted exemplaryly in the search for and improvement of the financial situation of the municipalities. Of course, Mrs. Rodríguez, who is not the same as running the PP as running the PSOE. Under a Government of the People's Party, Galicia was a pioneering autonomous community in setting a model of stable participation of local entities in the 2011 autonomous taxes with a guarantee of minimums. A real share of income, because it's linked to the tax collection of the autonomous estate. It is an objective and unconditional background in its application. Therefore, by firmly defending the financial adequacy of local entities, which enshrines the Constitution. And the Local Cooperation Fund contains -- as I said -- as an unconditional fund that operates for all the Greek municipalities for an amount that works as an own resource, and can be destined for what they want, without having to justify expenses. This is a guaranteed fund, since its amount cannot be lower in any exercise they received in 2010, even if they lower their income in the Autonomous Community. I remind you of the economic crisis of 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, where the income of the Galician Union fell sharply thanks to the management of the Government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero in the State, and which left us not only empty, but with red numbers, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. That must be remembered, too. Well, the Board distributes more than one hundred and twenty million euros each year through the Local Cooperation Fund, this year 122 million. You say it doesn't go up. I don't know, I'm not as smart as the mayor's daughter, but 122 is more than 120. And, specifically, for this year 2021, the base fund of 112.9 million is an additional fund of close to 9 million, of which EUR 268.907 will be allocated to the Fegamp, and the rest to finance specific needs agreed between the Board and the municipalities within the so-called Financial and Economic Sub-Commission. You say the PP has not increased its contribution to the municipalities since 2009. But the help given by the Galician Board to the municipalities is not limited to the Local Cooperation Fund, but, given the other transfers to the local entities that are collected in the budgets for 2021, they will receive more than four hundred million euros; that is, 10.5 million more than last year; more! And I keep saying I won't be so smart, but 400 is more than 390. And we all agree with the need to increase the funding of local authorities, but a responsible proposal must be made according to some rate of need to ensure that public money is intended for priority use, regardless of who manages it. In fact, there are still those positions where the distribution of powers by territorial administrations, not only by the municipalities but also by the United States, assumes inappropriate competences. I remind you that you are taking over 75% of the money you have to pay for the dependency aid, when the state government has to pay 50%. So here everyone is taking on inappropriate skills. So there's a need for a greater concretion. And this situation has been worsened lately as a result of the pandemic, when new needs arose that were urgently addressed and that brought new expenses that other administrations had to meet. And since June there have been years of constant demands on the Central Government for the definition of a new model of autonomous and local funding, which ensures the resources that each administration can count on and that it takes into account the particularities of the Greek municipalities in its distribution, such as demographic criteria and geographical dispersion. They've been in government for three years, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. I told you, there's a report from an expert committee that you have in a drawer. Please assume your responsibility and do something. Because you come here constantly, both to the commission and to the plenary, claiming a new model of local funding and self-financing, when you in Madrid are doing absolutely nothing. A law that is agreed between Fegamp and Junta that until there's a new model of self-financing and, therefore, of local funding, there's hardly going to be that law. And you can bring here all the agreements you want, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, but as long as this matter is not solved in Madrid it is impossible to address this issue seriously and responsibly. Mr. Tabares said there's a real will. Well, Mr. Tabares, if there had been a real will, the Government of Spain would have already made a law but it's entangled in other things. It's getting entangled in other legal matters that nothing has to do with anything or anything that matters to the citizenry or anything that favors citizenship. Yes, they favor Mr. Sánchez's continued installation in Moncloa. The theme of pardons, for example, is that they have all the legal advice from the Moncloa to see how they're going to do that. So they spend a little time making a law of local and autonomous funding to solve these issues, which are more important and arrive at citizenship. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, look, this is cacíquil and finger. This is the distribution of the Lugo Deputation of the conventions: 72 % for PSOE municipalities, 20 % for BNG and PP by 4 %. [[Mrs. Prado del Río shows the House a leaflet with a circular color graph.]] Don't pull me out. And you know that this caciquil distribution of funds co-governing with the Galego Nationalist Bloc we read the other day in the newspaper that Mr. Caballero "the socialist leader defended yesterday with the provincial president the model of the Lugo Deputy in front of the Galician Union." [[Mrs. Prado del Río shows the House a photocopy.]] Is this the model you want for Galician Union, the model of the Deputy of Lugo? [[Mrs. Prado del Río shows the House again the same leaflet previously taught with a circular chart.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, the truth is not. And why don't you come here and teach us lessons when you're head of local administration and you've signed hundreds of agreements with socialist mayors. There are my colleagues who were mayors when you were CEO and they didn't know her, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. And you come here to teach us lessons about what? Then ask them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Here are two and the two who didn't know her. It's quite surprising, they met her when they got here... two in forty-two, the proportion... of course, they were from Ourense! They were from Ourense, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, and there you were not, because there are many mayors of the People's Party and you were pulling more elsewhere. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll bring the thing. [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry, I'm doing it... [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u84	Quiet. They're both in the debate. A little order. Quiet. We're starting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u85	You assume that the Government of Sánchez has given Galicia 735 million euros. They still gave us 629 million euros less than we do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u87	So don't assume what Mr. Sánchez gives Galicia, because you, the Galician socialists, are unique and exclusively defending Mr. Sánchez. Regardless of whether Mr Sánchez discriminates against Galicia, he does not give him the funds he is responsible for, because he has to give them to other territories to carry out political wills and continue to stay in Moncloa. And that, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, we, the Galician People's Party, will not consent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u89	One more discrimination against the Greeks and the Greeks!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u90	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are the parliamentary group that supports the Government and must decide whether they are really a municipalist party or will allow the Greek councils again to be the poor brothers within the structure of the administration that attends citizenship at the expense of reducing resources for other needs, knowing that the municipal archives are already in a position of budgetary rickets. Will you continue to allow the Galician Union to continue to distribute public funds through a dedicated caciquil system, favoring some of the local governments who are of their own political colour, against the Law of Transparency and Good Government and the Law of Galician Grants? I know you don't like my questions, Mrs. Prado del Río, but my questions come with data, data! And it seems a lie that you one day in a commission told me that you had a lot of face, or a lot of face, or something like that, to carry some data. And the truth is, today it seems to me that this could apply to you. Because a person sitting on that bench who was president of the Lugo Parliament for three and a half months made forty-four conventions; of them forty-three for the People's Party, amounting to 5,365,000 euros, and one for the Socialist Party, of 18,000 euros. That's what it's like to have a lot of face. [[Applause]] And their defense of municipality has been tested every time they come here and refuse the initiatives brought back by this parliamentary group, in which we collect the demands of the Fegamp. We collect the demands of the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. And you come here to this gallery and ask me, what are you doing in Madrid? And I ask him, what are you doing in Galicia? They've been ruling for twelve years! In three years of the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, 28 million euros in the Local Cooperation Fund. Twelve years ruling Núñez Feijóo in the Galician Union and zero euros of increase in the Local Cooperation Fund. [[Applause]] And, Mrs. Paula Prado del Río, since she's getting so great and telling me about the total of agreements and grants, the total of credits signed by the Galician Union in 2021 for the local authorities in Galicia, I tell her that today is more than eighteen million, less than the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño said in 2009. [[Murmurs.]] And since you're still dealing with the division of the Greek MPs, the truth is, it's pretty curious that you use that of the Greek MPs, really you do. Yes, yes, yes, no, I bring you questions, data-evalled questions, Mrs. Prado del Río. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, this is the unique plan of the councils of the Greek MPs: the Crown Deputy dedicates €64.6 million; the Lugo Deputy, 21.5 million; the Pontevedra Council, 42.5 million; and the Ourense Deputy, 7.2 million. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows the House a leaflet with a circular color graph.]] Look, it's pretty clear. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo goes forward to the House that same leaflet with a circular chart.]] The single plans of the MP are for all municipalities on equal terms. [[Murmurs.]] But I'm telling you more, I'm going to tell you the percentage that they use of the single plan with respect to the total budget 2021: the Crown Deputy, 35%; the Lugo Deputy, 23%; the Pontevedra Deputy, 26%; and the Ourense Deputy, governed by the People's Party, 9%. [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows the Chamber another leaflet with a circular color graph.]] This is a shame! [[Applause]] Shame! [[Applause]] What's more, I'm going to tell you the average amount per county in the single plans of the Members. [[Applause]] It's just that you really smell! [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows the House a new leaflet with a circular colour graph.]] In the Deputation of the Coruña, EUR 695,000 is allocated per municipality, in the Deputation of Lugo, EUR 321,000 per municipality; in Pontevedra, EUR 697,000 per municipality, and in Ourense, EUR 78,500 per municipality. Mr Prado del Río and Members of the People's Party, the way you have to manage the People's Party where you also rule, says the Council of Auditors. Because the Board of Auditors has just made a 2018 report on the Deputy of Ourense -- not from the rest of the Greek MPs -- and what it tells us is that it has defects that prevent it from being regarded as a yielded account; that 84 % of the grants granted in the 2018 exercise have been made as a direct nominative award, i.e. to the fingering -- that caciquil distribution that loves the People's Party so much -- that the smaller contracts have assumed 80 % of the volume contracted, and that 70% of the volume of minor labour contracts have concentrated on five adjudicators. That's a shame, it's a shame to have a face!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u92	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u93	One toe and one toe deal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u94	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u95	The socialists want distributions with clear criteria so that the municipalities can meet their population and territory, which are the functions that correspond to them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u96	About the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u97	And don't be thankful or not for the government at once, in this case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u98	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, please, about the amendments, what did you tell me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u99	...of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u100	What do you say?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u101	On the amendments, Mr President, we accept the amendment tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block and accept the amendment tabled by the Galician People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u103	We're waiting for your vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u105	And so they'll prove if you're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u107	...a few Members and municipalists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u109	...or, as always, prefer the dart...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u110	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u111	...and the discretionary division.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u112	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the central government for the reduction of 4% of VAT on electricity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u113	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u114	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u115	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a question. Ask them how many caviar rations they took today. I suppose not. Or ask them if they've been seeing some bull racing lately. The truth is, in this country, a lot of bullies, bad for some, we're not, so I imagine the answer is negative. In any case, another question, one more plausible hypothesis: how many coffees did they take today? I imagine for most they've already fallen one by one. Do you know that these three things have in common? Caviar, bull racing and coffee have the same type of VVI, the 10% VE. By the way, much lower than electricity, which in our country is unfortunately recorded by 21%. And I imagine that as many coffeemakers as we're some of those we're here, including me, we'd be able to survive without coffee. I imagine that even many coffees you've taken today have probably used more electricity. I suppose most of you, too, are people who can be listening to us from the media, for example, who have risen today and even though the days have grown long, they probably had to stop power; many of them needed that energy to make breakfast, to shower, to open the garage, to print some notes for this full, for so many other things. That's right, because nowadays it's absolutely impossible to live with dignified material living conditions without electricity. It's an essential condition in addition to exercising other fundamental rights; we think about food, education, work, it's impossible to develop this without electricity. Or even with respect to housing, you can't consider a decent dwelling if you don't have these basic supplies: energy and water, which is also a basic asset. And with this, what I wanted to expose with these examples is this nonsense, that anomaly that something as elementary as electricity has a recording as if it were a precinct or luxury product. Something we want to put an end to today with this initiative and it reflects that there are two ways to conceive energy: one, as a public good, as a right that must be provided throughout citizenship, or another, as a good of speculation to the service of the great electric oligopolis. In short, this is what this initiative is about: to decide whether energy is a public good and we have to legislate and take measures to make it a public good, or whether we continue to allow it to be a good of speculation. We, from the Galician Nationalist Block, have it clear: energy is an elemental good and therefore should have a record similar to that of the most basic foods or medicines, a record of 4%, and not that abuse 21%. And it's not the first time since the Galician Nationalist Block we've been defending a proposal like this, but the truth is, today we're living at a time when nobody should escape that it's absolutely crucial for millions of people for two fundamental reasons: On the one hand, because it is obvious that we are already in an economic crisis, in an economic crisis that goes beyond that. And by setting an example, a headline we could read in yesterday's press: "More than one hundred families ask for help every day," -- I repeat -- every day, "to Together to buy food and medicine." There's an estimate that about forty-five thousand people in this country are already welcome to this measure. And, look!, the perceivers of this aid, this measure, are not even the people who are taking a risk, nor the people who are under the coverage of the minimum vital income. So imagine, if we add these three areas of social support, how difficult it is for so many families in this country to pay for a good as elementary and as necessary for our life as electricity. And secondly, in addition to this economic and social situation, nobody gets away with a huge escalation in the price of electricity in the last few months. We've had a whole 2021 increase in the electric bill, and since the Central Government it's not wanting or not knowing how to take action. Perhaps because, once again, it is shown that the energy policy that provides one or another party, the People's Party or the Socialist Party, in the central government when they pass by is absolutely mythic, and the same happens with respect to fiscal policy. Only in this way can it be understood that even in the extraordinary circumstances that we live because of the pandemic was neither arbitrate nor a single measure to reduce the tax burden on electricity. And since BNG, of course, we don't want to simplify the light price problem. We are aware that VAT and abuse of taxation are not the only problem, but that it is a huge problem and that it would be necessary, in addition to these tax changes, a huge reform in the system of fixing electrical prices. The biggest sample is that these are the most expensive technologies that determine what the final composition of the invoice is. And the truth is, until today, none of the two most recent governments that we have had from the People's Party or the Socialist Party at times of increasing the bill of light have intervened in this respect because, at the end of the day, we have to conclude that they rule more electricity than the government councils themselves. And we also have to say and put again on the table that sends tricks that in a country that is specialized in electricity production and that despite the closure of two thermal power stations, we continue without the least benefit in terms of crushing. It's a joke that today there's no unanimous wager in this country for a Greek electric tariff that compensates for this situation. And the truth is, there are more and more voices that cry out in this sense. I don't know if your lordships saw an opinion paper in this country's major written paper, which is not suspected of being a spokesman for the Galician Nationalist Block, where there was a column of opinion in this sense, and a few weeks ago former president Laxe also spoke in this sense. So the longer they take each other to assume that this should be a country demand, the more time we lose the Greeks and the Greeks. But coming back to the question, the truth is -- as I was saying -- we're at a time of increasing the price of electricity, we started 2021 with a serious record in our price fixing history, we had the most expensive April of the last few years, too, and in the first seven days of June, by setting an example, according to FACUA estimates, the price was shot at 42%. So we're at a time of non-stop climb, with problems that are no longer conjunctive, but structural, like the question of CO2, and aggravated by a change in government tariffs, which penalizes both pemes and families in full crisis. For example, for former consumers with time discrimination, this is going to mean an increase of even thirty percent. By setting another example, for the gainful farms, up to 40 percent. Sectors -- as I'm indicating -- largely damaged in addition to an unprecedented crisis like that of coward-19. So this situation is unbearable and requires a lot of changes. Of course, correcting this billing process must be one of the measures; to bet that our country is compensated for this role as a producer should be another of the measures; but, of course, there is a matter that is urgent and that today we want to put on the table, which is the reduction of value added tax, for several reasons: First of all, I want to remember that we have one of the highest EVIs for the electrical supply of our European environment, only behind the Nordic countries, and that we have to add to this other charges, such as that special electricity tax, which is 5.1%, and that comes as a double VAT; that is, we have a double tax which is only maintained today by the pursuit of the state. And we can even understand that at a time of economic crisis the State is thinking of raising, because there are many needs, but it is clear that it is wrong to aim. And on the other hand, it must also be said that a repeated lie a thousand times is not an automatic truth, and that what the European Union would not allow to take this step is absolutely false, and we have very close examples and I'm going to put one, which is Portuguese. In May 2019, the VAT share of the fixed invoice was reduced to 6 % of the initial 23 %, and more recently they were wagered by a progressive model. I mean, up to the first 100 kilowatts per hour, and consumers have a type of recording, and then it increases. Europe was informed in this sense that it had no objection to the measure, that it did not distort the principles of competition neutrality, and that it has advanced in that sense. So this issue of the VE of electrical energy, in addition to a moment where we've politically debated here a lot about downsides to other areas of our society, because it reminds me a little of this issue of the VE of masks. The VE of the masks could not be lowered, it was absolutely impossible, until social and political pressure was so great that it was necessary to lower that VE of the masks and that it was possible. Our bet is clear, because this initiative calls for lowering the receipt of light and democratizing access. We understand that it is a proposal that should have the unanimity of the House, which should be a correction in addition to the two political organizations that are present here, because we have been enduring an excessive VAT for too many years, and that with this special electricity tax it makes for many consumers, regardless of how much energy they spend, it is practically impossible to bear the payment of the bill, because in three quarters they are taxive and much higher than what they consume. So this is a question that would have a direct impact on consumer and consumer bill and that would also contribute to social justice, every time this is an indirect tax. So these issues we understand that if yesterday were reasonable, in the light of the teachings of this crisis they should be unquestionable, and that today we must take a collective step for the benefit of the social majority, the promotion of the democratization of energy and to fight this scam continue. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u117	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. In fact, this is an interesting debate, the fall of the EVV, the plan that causes the BNG to lower the collection in which the bill of light reaches and therefore eliminate or lower the EV from 21% to 4%. A complex debate, of course, because it also has to do with regulation of the electricity market; it has to do with the democratization of electrical auctions; it has to do with the need to push a change in the energy model, so it has to boost renewable energies; it has to do with harmonizing a new energy model, of course. As the debate is interesting, what you are proposing here is a measure that has a cost. And we question that we can initially do to this measure is the opportunism that you do when you pose this type of initiative at a time when you say there is a significant fall in the collection as a result of the pandemic, when you have also fallen in the VAT tax at the state level by 12% in 2020, almost eight billion euros in the Spanish state as a whole. A complex, difficult, dramatic moment, where the productive fabric, the economic fabric of this country must be sustained, where social benefits must be paid as a result of the fall in economic activity. And you actually propose an initiative that is to stop collecting taxes. It's okay. You guys from BNG are experts in considering in some case initiatives that obviously have a lot of social responsiveness. What do you mean? I don't like paying for VVI either in the light, and I guess no one, or we'd like everyone to lower the VVI on this bill. What is happening is that, in fact, these kinds of proposals have already been put forward in this Chamber in recent times, which are a bit of a shock to the principle of reality, as is that claim of EUR 20 billion to the state in relation to the European funds that are theoretically coming to the whole of the Spanish State. Twenty billion euros. In fact, no one can say that 20 billion won't come to Galicia. Who's going to oppose? No one. Who's it wrong for them to lower the LVI from the bill of light? I understand that no one. But here's the question -- without escaping the debate, which is just as necessary and at the moment we have to give around the taxation of certain goods and services -- that I do to the nationalist group is: how much is it in terms of raising the VAT from 21% to 4%? Well, I've already answered it, about five billion euros. So the next question is, if we go down to the collection five billion euros, where do we count the five billion euros?, where do we raise the five billion euros? Or the next question, what do we stop paying? What do we stop financing with these five billion euros? And that's what we have to answer. Because, indeed, EVV is an indirect tax, a tax that taxes consumption, a tax to a certain extent unfair, because it does not take account of either spending capacity or income capacity, but it is a tax that ultimately allows to raise money to support public funds, public finances and therefore public services. And the debate and then the alternative is, how do you keep public services?, how do you keep public accounts?, how do you get the public deficit? Because, in the end, this will also pay. And that's what the BNG is obvious on his initiative. And we do not hide that it is necessary to have a debate in this country, in the state as a whole, too, in Europe, around taxation, about the need to make taxes more progressive and pay here what you have most, and indeed, that there is a distribution of charges based on everyone's income. So we all contribute to the maintenance of public charges depending on our capacity. And this debate is going to be given, of course, because the deficit relationship with GDP, the level of debt in relation to GDP, in the whole of the Spanish State, will force that change to that fiscal reform. And in that change, in that new fiscal model, you probably also have to deal with VAT taxation. Now, is it essential to lower the type of VE or is it more important to review the range of products and goods that benefit from a reduced and over-reduced VE, and to see if the same in terms of equity are beneficial to the whole of citizenship? So this is what we must do, regardless of whether we do not escape from having to have a debate about the VAT that affects a basic supply as is the light. Is it possible to download the VAT in Spain? Yes, of course it's possible. Does that make sense? Yeah, it depends. In terms of collection, of course, not at the moment. But in terms of making electricity available to all citizens, who are also suffering from it, to the most vulnerable groups, maybe in this case it's not the same thing to lower the EVI to that set of citizens, because by lowering that set of citizens, they are demeaning to all citizens. So also those who have the most, that is, here... [[Murmurs.]] Yes, man! Yes, yes. We all seek universal happiness. I know you guys in this kind of business are specialists. And hunger in the world must end it. Yeah, we know that! Finally, we understand that in the face of a situation like this, what needs to be addressed is that people who have less income because they have the ability to continue obtaining basic energy supplies, and this is done by doing from the social political state, policy of incentives, policies by establishing social bonds, electric bonds, thermal social bonds, by prohibiting the cutting of supplies to those people who cannot pay them. [[Applause]] Finally, by acting also on the fixed costs of the invoice, by disposing of those fixed costs, by recording the same consumption and not so much the contracted power, or by shifting part of the fixed costs of the invoice to the national system or to a newly created fund, the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electric System, which will be financed by the traders and not by the consumers. Or even by introducing a new regulation into the CO2 market that allows those non-CO2 stations to see their dividends reduced, and as a result to obtain an important collection route by which to partly sustain the payment of the fixed costs of the invoice, especially those linked to renewables, and also to maintain part of the cost of financing, in this case the most vulnerable household invoices in this country. In relation to the VAT that is paid in other countries, of which you have just mentioned the case of Portugal, this is indeed the case. But in Portugal the ordinary type of EVI is 23 % for a huge range of products, huge! So each country has a fiscal reality and an economic reality. In fact, in France light is more affordable than in Spain, and taxation probably in the fixed part is as well. But the energy reality of France is absolutely different from the reality of the Spanish state, as you know. In Germany, light is more expensive than in Spain; of course, economic reality and energy are different, there was a nuclear blackout, the economy was decarbonized and as a result it was affixed by renewables, and that has a cost. Well, from there, gentlemen of the BNG, we do not deny the debate. We have an amendment that I understand is more appropriate at this time than to get out of the system five billion without saying how that fall of economic recovery will be compensated and that public services will be financed if we take out of the system the money obtained as a result of tax collection. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u118	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u119	Thank you, President. I have to tell you, Mr. Rivera, that I've been trying to give up my ten minutes and ask the president to give them to you, because I'm sure ten more minutes are left to break all the coalition governments that you have with the Galician Nationalist Block in Galicia. [[Applause]] I want to take advantage of it to ask you to transfer to the mayor of Verín our congratulations, especially to his daughter, for that ten in the opposition called by his own father; a ten, not a 9.5, a 9.8, a ten. Congratulations to the father and daughter, in the order you prefer: the father or the daughter. As we get into the matter, we're very sorry, we want to apologize to all the Greeks, we don't have to make Pedro Sánchez president. So they should begin the speeches of all Members of the Nationalist Block Galego in this chamber, because they come to this full washing their hands, Mrs. Presas, trying to conceal their direct involvement in the investment of this government and this president, and trying to hide their co-responsibility with the rise of the light we have just suffered. The most centralist government, the more sensitive to Galicia and the more damaging it has done and is doing to the middle classes and the lower classes of our country. That's the government you supported. That's the president you invested. Of course, from the People's Party in Galicia we can understand that it was a mistake; we're sure it was a mistake. Maybe they got wrong, they believed in socialist propaganda, and they thought they'd do something on their own; they thought BNG would paint something or they'd meet at least one of the terms of the pact. Maybe they were wrong, it's another possibility. You've been deceived. We know that Pedro Sanchez minds constantly, he tries to deceive all his partners, and his political opponents as well, and the citizens. Maybe they couldn't help it, and that pact of shame between Ana and Adriana was another chapter in the long history of BNG's submission to the Socialist Party of Madrid. We could understand all these situations if you accepted your apology here in this chamber. But the worst thing is, ladies and gentlemen, we'll never hear anyone from the BNG repent, never. We will never listen to anyone from the BNG to recognize the great damage I have suffered for Galicia and for all the Spanish families to hand over the Government to the Socialist Party in the last general elections. We'll never hear anyone from the BNG admit they made a mistake by investing president Pedro Sánchez. And it's not just a matter of repentance. Even today BNG has tools to press the Socialist Party because it co-governates with it in many places. They condition the maintenance of these government pacts that this rise in the price of electricity is not effective. Why don't they? They don't because they don't want to or don't because they just don't paint anything? I think they're exactly the two questions. Of course, I have to tell you how brave it is to come to this camera here to make demands to the same government you invested. And they come here to make demands when you made an agreement signed between Ana and Adriana to keep that president and invest him. How dare you come here and get angry and ask the same president to act that you keep in power? BNG has no legitimacy to criticize in this chamber the policies of the Government that you yourselves have sustained and sustained. I am not going to debate at the bottom of this question because you are simply responsible, responsible for the rise of light. Exactly that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nor will I ask you what your energy model is for Spain and Galicia. I'm not going to ask you because you're against the thermals, you want to close Reganosa, you're against the wind, you're against the marine wind. What's your model? Make fire with two sticks. That's the decimononic BNG that represents Mrs. Ana Pontón. [[Laughter]] Tell you, Mrs. Presas, to rule the electricians. Big headline: they rule the electrics. Look: they're going to rule the electrics, but whoever goes up the fare is the Socialist Party, and you support us. That's the reality. They do what they can, instead of coming here saying that we have to complain, against a government that you invested in. But what kind of hair jacket is this? You guys at the bottom come here just wash your hands, say they're not responsible for what's going on. But all Galicia knows perfectly well that it is Mrs. Ana Pontón's Galego Nationalist Block. Regarding the amendment of the Socialist Party, Mr. Francisco Rivera, the truth is that it is interesting for you to intervene. Interesting because you began by saying that this debate was interesting and then ending up saying that the Galician Nationalist Block, its partners, are opportunistic. You agree with yourself. Of course, the placard you make on this camera is frankly -- as you would say -- interesting. Look: if the BNG is guilty of this situation, the Socialist Party and the PSdEG-PSOE are on guard trial; that's the reality. His party was horrified by criticizing the rise of electricity from the Mariano Rajoy government, 7%; now you're quiet when it rises to at least 35%. You two shut up now. Of course, everybody knows it's more than 7% than 35%!; that's the reality. You assured me that when they arrived at the government of Spain they would plant towards the electricians, they said with great heroity, and there would at last be a government that had thought about people. But reality, as always, was imposed on socialist propaganda and lies. Ladies and gentlemen, since Pedro Sánchez came to the government, the average bill of light has risen by 40% in less than three years, and that is reality. And the price was shot in the daybreak fringes. Mr. Francisco Rivera, the Spaniards are going to be flies in order to use domestic electricity. Do you know that, by the way, the washing machine can't be put into municipalities like Vigo or in the Coruña after ten o'clock at night? Do you know that the Vale fare starts at noon and ends at 8:00 in the morning? But do you know who they rule for? Who's going to be able to pay for electricity in this country that you're designing? Of course... yes, yes, demagogues yes, but he couldn't refute or refute any of the arguments of our defense and our criticism. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this rise is not a coincidence or a conjunctural circumstance as it is intended to make us see Mr. Francisco Rivera; it is part of a structured and calendarized plan of the Government of the Socialist Party. And not a secret plan, not a conspiracy theory; it's collected in detail in the recovery plan presented by the socialists in Brussels. That's the reality. Until today, socialists have risen a dozen tax figures: the IRPF, savings taxes, the VAT of sugared beverages, insurance premiums, dividend executions, surpluses, waste taxes -- I'm glad you put it to your head -- taxes on plastic packaging, tax on financial transactions or taxes on certain digital services. Those are already ups applied by you. And at these climbs, you have to add the ones that have planned for the future, which are detailed in that plan sent to Brussels: the maximum contributions to Social Security, a labour tax that pays both businesses and workers, the contributions to self-employed, the abolition of joint tax deductions, which benefit 3.5 million families in our country, or the payment for the use of state roads. And in the face of this historic rise of fiscal pressure on families and the huge increase in the bill of light, what did the Socialist Party say? Well, the same thing that we hear here is Mr. Francisco Rivera: well, it's an interesting subject. How interesting? What does your minister say, Minister Ribera? What does Minister Ribera say? "The rise will be very little noticed. The receipt will rise only a few euros, or just 4 or 10 euros". But, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do you think they can have hair on a whole country? Do you really think you can laugh at all Spaniards and nobody realizes what's going on in Spain? The unfortunate thing is that what is happening is happening because these gentlemen supported them in the investment and made them into the lamentable Government of Spain, which had to mess up a pandemic and now, unfortunately, an economic crisis. That's probably why polls are so bad for the Socialist Party. You're the most expensive government in the history of democracy in our country, and you're allowed to continue raising taxes, and you're also continuing the price of electricity to everyone, not to anyone else who has what you say. No, no, electricity here is available to all Spaniards, regardless of their resources, to all of them. That's the reality. Yes, you do not limit this to ministers, advisers, external bodies; in that you are champions. That's the double morale of the Socialist Party right now. Tell you to pay more than you have. But if you're up to everybody's electricity. And what is our position on this matter? We take her on an initiative and on our own amendment. That is our proposal, gentlemen of the Galego Nationalist Block, and we will have the opportunity to debate it. But, of course, what we're telling you is that it doesn't contain with us to wash your face, because you have a lot of responsibility for what's happening in Spain, what's happening in Spain and also Galicia. Because to all of this double crisis we are living in, we have to add this permanent attack by the Socialist Government to the Galician industry, an attack on land, sea and air, whether the Galician Nationalist Block, or applaud, or look elsewhere. That's the reality. We ask the Galego Nationalist Block that if they want to be credible when they talk about these matters, they break or condition the support of the Socialist Party where they are -- also in Verín, by the way! -- or condition the policy changes to continue to belong to the governments of the Socialist Party. On the contrary, they're artificial fires. It doesn't contain with us to wash your face...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u121	...in view of this dramatic situation. Unfortunately, we believe that Spain deserves another government. This one, of course, has proved to be already a fiasco. This, of course, was possible thanks to the evident, powerful and decisive collaboration of the Galician Nationalist Block. You are as responsible as the Socialist Party for rising light that affects all Spaniards. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u122	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, in the end, I didn't understand whether you were angry because only the People's Party can present proposals that are addressed to the Central Government, or whether you were angry because you were going to go out of this debate of course, that you remain without a clear bet on the downside of the IVE. That's why they're presenting self-restraint initiatives to make it necessary to review. [[Laughter]] Of course, it must be checked because I suppose Mr. Casado has given them permission to make some opposition from the German Parliament to see if they self-sent what they do not do from the Board, but not enough permission to ask for a 4% VAT discount. [[Applause]] Don't get angry. I will only remember once that the two laws in the electricity sector that were in the Spanish state were maneuvering the People's Party, and that the Government of the Socialist Party never changed them, neither yesterday, nor today, nor does it seem to change them. [[Applause]] Because if something has become clear in this debate is that, unfortunately -- and that's why I apologize to the Greeks and the Greeks -- we have tried it from the Galego Nationalist Block, but not even the Galician People's Party or the Galician Socialist Party make Members of Galicia in the Greek Parliament itself, but they defend the energy policy that their parties do in Madrid. [[Applause]] In any case, if life was so easy, Mr. Tellado, we would break governments, independence from socialism in two minutes, but it's not. If you want, they add the Members who have in Madrid without defending Galicia's interests to the Member we have, and they will be more votes in defence of this country. [[Laughter]] When they want, there will be our initiatives so they can support them. [[Protests.]] In any case, Mr. Rivera, with all due respect, opportunism what his Minister Ribera has -- well -- when, after applying a tariff that will impact on the most punished social sectors of this country, grabs and launches the balloon probe that now, three years and seven days after the motion of censure to Mariano Rajoy, the Socialist Party will suddenly intervene in the rainy benefits of the sky. Of course, when they do so, just like when they derogate the People's Party's Labour Reform, the Galician Nationalist Block will be there to support them and applaud them. But unfortunately, he doesn't have credibility at this point in the game; rather, it looks like a balloon probe to distract him from this event. I don't know if she's advised by Felipe González or by anyone else. [[Applause]] In any case, I am going to the question of debate. Look: I gladly pay the VE; I gladly pay the VE because fortunately at this time I have a decent salary that allows me to do it. But I've already experienced what it was like to charge less than the SMI and have to face the payment of the electric bill with difficulties in the winter months. And the point is, right now, with the economic situation there, there are more and more people in that situation, and we're talking about a basic asset. If water has a 10 percent recording, don't we understand why we can't get into the discussion of what the recording of electricity is? In fact, it's a problem of collection, but it's no longer going into... well, finally, IV recalibration in which it then kidnaps the central government as well as the part that belongs to Galicia when it likes it. That is another debate. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I'm going to go to the issue, because we'll have to make reforms so that other products that are of luxury and that if they're indispensable have a bigger engraving, and that doesn't have an element like electricity, that only with that special electricity tax will be raised more than one billion euros. Aren't you going to get a billion euros now for the rainy benefits of the electric sky? Well, then, a compensation is made and this question is reviewed. Because we would also have to compare the social coverages that the Spanish State has with the social coverages that have other states in Europe, which have a similar VAT or a lower VAT, because in this comparison we would also bring surprises. I don't know if Portuguese socialism is out of reality. Here, the problem we see is that the one who is out of the left is Spanish socialism and also Greek socialism. And that's a problem, because then, of course, he comes right here talking to this Chamber and wants to subscribe to the intervention of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Of course, he gave a full prescription here for the issue of electric billing. I myself said in my intervention that I didn't want to simplify complexity, because it's true that taxation isn't everything, that there are other elements that need to be discussed, but, of course, we appeal to them to apply it. Look: I, who am repetitive in this legislation, after Mr Rajoy's motion of censure, from the socialist ranks when we had long and tender debates on the energy issue to the thread of the industrial question, etc., asked us to be patient. We had patience. The Greeks and the Greeks were patient. But time passes and there is no change. So with this question, we basically want to get relief once again that energy is a first-needed asset. And in a rational, fair, and minimally fair tax system, you can't have a higher burden than that of caviar, that of bull races, that of coffee, or that of so many other things that are indispensable in our lives. It's not opportunism, it's social justice, and of course we'll continue to defend it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u124	Do you accept the PSOE amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u125	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u126	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to improve the working and salary conditions of Sergas staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u127	There are no amendments to this proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u128	Thank you, President. Today the BNG brings here an initiative calling for improvements in the working and salary conditions of the Greek public health staff. Demand that we have been insisting on for a long time, because it seems really fair to some professionals who have been required, and those who have given a great effort, have given everything and more, and in return the Government of Greece -- oh!, it's good that you want to see my face, thank you for warning -- and said that in exchange for all that effort the Government of Greece only does it is to mistreat it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Prado Colors removes the mask from her face.]] [[Laughter]] A labour situation that has been a matter of concern for a long time now, because the 12 years of the People's Party's government have only come back from working conditions, loss of rights and precariousness. Back politics turned to professionals, deaf ears, pre-power, order and command, taxation, although in speech it seems that the situation is different. We have a fully infrastructed public health system in Galicia, with an important part of what we have in a precarious situation. For example, the situation of nursing staff, where 40% of the professionals are possible, and they have been in that situation for the most part over ten years. A staff who has suffered years of precariousness, of temporality, of saturation, who is fed up with blowing up the important things they are, the most important work they do, but that this does not become absolutely any recognition of their rights, and that they continue to keep their situation in a limited position. It's not a new situation -- as I said earlier -- survival of the last hour by an exceptional situation like the pandemic, but as a result of twelve years of taking action against this staff. They have made efforts, sacrifices, so that the state of deterioration of Galicia's public health is not even more evident. They are anxious that this situation has not moved more intensively to the patients. And on behalf of Sergas, instead of making up for that effort, he did nothing but mistreat them, none of them and despise them. And the Welsh public health professionals need recognition, but that it is real, not just of the title and of Parliament's tribunal speech. And the first thing they need is decent working conditions. That's why in the initiative that today brings here the Galego Nationalist Block, what we demand is to end the policy of precariousness, exploitation in recruitment, offering decent contracts to prevent them from continuing to march professionally, either towards the private or towards the foreign. Worthy working conditions that prevent, for example, the MIR professionals who finished their training this year 2021 They don't stay in Sergas. Working conditions worthy of 70 family and community professionals who have trained in Galicia for the last four years, have only been in primary care 30, 30, 70! It should explain to the People's Party that it is doing, what recruitment policy, what contracts it is offering them so that of 70 professionals trained only 30 remain in primary care. It's one of the issues I'd like the People's Party to clarify. And I'm talking about a primary care that is really needed by these professionals; professionals, workers, and workers, that a very important part of them are on those so-called recruitment lists. It is estimated that about 30 percent of those lists and that they are likely to be called call off because they have better offers outside of Galicia or in private health. We also demand on the initiative presented by BNG contracts for the causality that originated them and for all their time. Why do we complain about this? Because if a professional takes an ILT, enjoys vacations or has a maternity leave, the person who hires must be hired to fully cover that situation and to do the same functions, and must stop hiring from Monday to Friday to not pay for the weekend or quit hiring to work for a few hours instead of the whole of the day; issues that seem basic to us so that professionals want to work in Sergas. The pandemic has shown more than ever the low rate of professionals in Brazilian public health, despite the growing demand for care, and this associated with aging, the growth of chronic diseases and disability. Galicia has a very old population, with pluripathologies, dependence... and now, with all the attention derived from the pandemic situation, the rates of professionals have not been adjusted. Another example for nursing staff: Galicia, 5.3 nurses per 100,000 inhabitants; in the State, 6.5; and in the European Union, 8.3. In other words, many nursing professionals would be missing in Galicia to reach that average. And the midwives warned that within 40 years 75% of those in active employment will be retired. Well, we don't know what Sergas's planning is to cover those squares. There are always quite insufficient rates in these twelve years; and in these sixteen months of pandemics it has been evidenced with all clarity, and in this summer that the situation comes, of course, will only get worse. And what is the alternative of the People's Party in the face of this lack of personnel? To maintain the precariousness of work, to insist again on inter-restitutions, which means that a professional does his work and the other or other; that is, that of two, three, four or even five professionals, who frame. And, for example, in the Guard, 8 professionals, they've been almost all year long since they've been 3, but for Sergas and for the People's Party nothing happens at all. What are they still offering? Prolongations of the day. What does that mean? That after a seven-hour day they have to keep working another working day. That's right, they're not paid overtime, but they're paid hours as regular value and with the value of the year 2008. Since 2008 it's not updated that day value, and, as I say, it's not paid as overtime. And what is the other alternative that the People's Party proposes and does? Close the health centers in the afternoon, even in municipalities where not only will they have less population during the summer, but they will have more, because they are municipalities where there is touristic fluency, as Sanxexo might be, how it can be Cambated or how it can be The Guard. The People's Party's decision in the face of the lack of professionals is to close the health centers in the afternoon. And so they close, as I say, Cambados, Sanxenxo, The Guard, Burella... They don't open the consultants that closed during the pandemic, and the solution of the hospitals is to close the surgeons or close the beds; magnificent solutions to download the waiting lists and get the Welsh population to be cared for. Health centres closed and without professional coverage, that's the alternative proposed by the People's Party. And the limit situation in which primary care was especially in place is going to worsen during the summer: don't replace staff, closed health centres and maintain the vaccination campaign. This will result in the increase in these waiting lists -- which I remind you that in many health centers it is already over two weeks -- they neglect the population and staff exhaustion. And the People's Party is continually standing behind no doctors to hire, and it doesn't say it's because of its recruitment policy. But what's the excuse not to hire matrons, physicists, PSGs or janitors -- which is left on the recruitment lists and that the people's party's policy is not to replace them or hire them for this summer--? I'd also like you to give us some explanation. We also believe that staff recognition has to mean ending wage discrimination, because Sergas' staff have a specific minor supplement that is contained in the payroll order for the rest of the board staff. That's why we demand that all actions be immediately initiated to match the specific complement and continuous staffing of Sergas' staff; complement that aims to pay for penosity, the provision of services worked on shifts, Sundays, holidays, 365 days of the year, 7 days of the week and 24 hours of the day. And the health personnel in 2010 were forced to freeze their salaries and have been paralyzed with agreements already signed and published in the DOG that meant raising their salary, because they're in line with both the rest of Galician Union and the rest of the state. And what does it mean to have a specific supplement lower, a productivity supplement or steal those wages? That, for example, a doctor covers less than EUR 302 per month; that nurses, physiotherapists or midwives cover less than EUR 304 per month; that a technician covers less than EUR 274 per month, that nursing assistants cover less than EUR 231 per month and that the capers cover less than EUR 151 per month. That's why it seems fair to us that this is done. And finally, we're asking for information, we want you to know, that there's a plaza identification system to know what the staff situation is, to know how the squares are: which are structural, which are covered by inter-intensities, which are not covered, and so know what measures to take. Because the situation of the staff is like what lives on a day, with no savings or mattress; and as soon as it has an unexpected, something that changes the situation, even if it is minimal, that day and day can no longer face it. The situation of Sergas' staff is exactly like this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u130	...they left the staff boxes to a minimum, just to go shooting, and when any unforeseen circumstances arise, the situation can no longer be faced, only with staff over-earning or leaving the population unattended. So we want this BNG initiative, which is minimal, to be supported by the rest of the House's groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u132	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We are going to vote in favour of this initiative, there is no doubt about it, as we have often seen with questions about human resources in Sergas, which is probably one of the key axes that explains a lot about the situation we have in recent years. It's a very clear and strategic initiative. She's wearing a coma in the middle, very clear... says Mrs. Prado is minimal. I wish those minimums were taken as a strategic base! Why is this debate the key to the system? Because basically the problem that our public health system has to be more efficient than it is already thanks to professionals and despite its managers has to do with human resources policy in two keys that are, of course, very related or closely related: one is the human resource deficit. By setting an example, from 2009 to today -- 2009 budget and 2021 budget, by getting the same source --, there's something more than a thousand professionals less in primary care -- only in primary care -- in Galicia's public health system -- more than a thousand professionals less; 1,061, if I don't get it wrong --. And in twelve years, it's not that we've grown much, not that we've grown little, not that we've kept, that we've lost more than a thousand professionals. This is a problem with the professional deficit. We are all aware that there are some specialties, some areas, where there are more professional difficulties, but it is quite true that the system hires little and bad, and that -- which is the second problem, which is the system of labour claims, the recruitment system -- is probably one of the other problems, because we form professional. We've probably formed a few fewer specialties that we need and others are saturated at some point, but in fact, we've formed a relatively satisfactory number of professionals; always adjustable, but it wouldn't even have to be adjusted in large numbers. What's the matter? The problem is that we're not contracting permanently, the problem is that there are no long-term policies. By setting a relatively clear example -- or we think it's clear -- in Sergas there are about 40,000 professionals, and this, if there were no more than a standardized distribution of age, would say that, since there are 40,000 professionals, they would retire about a thousand a year. That's not really the case, because the system is formulated by its administrative evolution, and today there are many more professionals older than they miss; let's say that the population pyramid is bigger. But, still retired 1,000 professionals a year, there is no planning in Sergas, there is no one, no one has set this target in recent years to understand that we should be replacing. That's why we're having a problem that gets worse and which in some categories we know is much bigger. Obviously, it's very simple and there are hundreds of possibilities, and we all have the data, because to know what the ages of all professions are, we know the certain science which professionals are going to retire next year, within two, within four, and if you don't change the regulations, within six and ten and twenty, because the more we go, you have some adjustment, but very little. So we know how many professionals we need, we know where they are, but let me set the example -- in the last twelve years in Galicia we haven't trained 150 community family medicine professionals because we didn't want to. There were the squares, they were enabled, there were tutors and there were places, but Galicia did not summon them; and, of course, now we have 150 professionals less, it is true that then they aren't hired enough. And in the five years following the completion of the IRM, they're in Galicia stablely 20% -- and they don't even -- of professionals; that's the problem. Therefore, the deficit has a structural element that is complicated, but it can work and affect it. Secondly, there is the volume and capacity for recruitment, the precariousness. Precautionary is, unfortunately, the central element of Galicia's health system in relation to human resources, especially, as is obvious. In recent days, unfortunately, as so many times, Mr. Feijóo, who was talking about health, misjudged and accused professionals indirectly -- or not so indirectly -- asked them to leave their labor claims to focus on assistance. You can hardly separate the two things, but in case you don't understand them, we're going to try to give our perspective to see if we contribute to understanding them. It is impossible to separate the working conditions from the professionals' ability and quality of care, impossible! Because what does a problem with Sergas eventuality mean? Well, look at, in principle, it has to do with, for example, the saturation of professionals. Sergas now starts talking about 8 or 10 minutes per primary care consultation. Where is the 10-minute claim for consultation with primary professionals? But the problem is not to put a digit there, that's a consequence, not the starting point, because if you keep having 50 people on your date, as they're having prepandemia, 8 or 10 minutes put them in a range of almost 7 hours or more than 8 hours on appointments every day. Because 8 minutes per person to 50 patients -- which is a fairly common primary data in Galicia -- is 6.40 hours unstoppable. Where are the house visits? Where are the phone dates left to renew recipes? Where are the community health issues left? Where are the work meetings? And don't we say the rest of the staff anymore? Therefore, the quality of care with the quality of work is inseparable. When Mr. Feijóo says that doctors forget their job demands, what he's saying is, you're the slaves of the system and don't protest much, we don't want to listen to them. Because it also has to do with the fact that there can't be nurses who today have an emergency contract or are leaving with an ambulance of 061, tomorrow they're working in neonates and the next day working on the plant with the internists. It can't be, because there's no ability to adapt, to work, to coordinate properly if every day they have to be working in a different service. What does it have to do with the eventuality for Mr. Feijó to understand that working conditions are key? It has to do with, for example, the year is 365 days old. If we took off 104 weekends, plus the 10 holidays, we'd put about 250 working days a year, 251 if we're specific. There are people in this country who sign 270 contracts a year; that is, 251 business days and 270 contracts a year. What does it mean to work in Sergas? It means there are people who are working more than the Staff Regulations say they should work, or they're signing more than one contract a day, and this is unacceptable in a health system, unacceptable! [[Applause]] Work conditions have to do with the quality of care in such matters as this, but also in which in this country Sergas, the Council and Mr Feijó call it stability to tell professionals "you must shut up because you charge a lot", which has been used perversely here in recent parliamentary debates, perversely! -- I insist -- because it's a very dangerous debate to start entering the wages of health professionals, uh!, quite dangerous. I leave it there because I think it was a mistake and, therefore, to see if we are able to reinduce that idea, it won't be. But in addition to that, the stability of the system, the stability of the professionals, it has to do with the fact that what is now called stability is offering advertising contracts from one to three years. The reality is that they are one, one year, to work you don't know what days, you don't know where and knowing that the next day you may have to travel far beyond your work space. It has to do with the fact that those and those professionals who are in the health system depending on the recruitment lists for substitutions cannot plan life, they have to be always on the phone. There is the disconnection we ask of them and of what we are debating today. Impossible! because, if the phone is on its own, you have to pick it up, Mondays, Wednesdays, Saturdays, Sundays, 8:00 a.m., 7 p.m., etc., and many times to join in on the same day. Now each one will arrange if he can, if he has little children, a person in charge or 50 kilometers away. It has to be because, if not, they end up below the list. This is the problem of professional stability. We're treating professionals like this; this system treats professionals who applaud, but that's not applause, that's slapped, and that can't be acceptable. So this debate is essential, and it's not because we haven't brought it one, two or ten times, and we'll go on. We'll ask the councillor about this tomorrow. Why? Because we basically want to know if this advisor's policy has to do with the magic response -- and I say magic -- for not saying a more negative qualification -- that he gave the previous advisor about it. And I remember her because she's pretty sad. He said in an interview literally, "That's what there is." That can't be our health policy, because, in addition to applauding, we have to offer, and because, in addition to giving them many flowers, then we have to put money on the table, resources for professionals. You can't tell them, as Mr. Feijóo said -- once again, putting the burden on them -- that they put aside their labor demands, because the demands of health professionals are the guarantee of our best health. And if you don't understand it, you don't understand where the best of health is, you might think it's you, but it's the professionals, the ones you abuse. So let's see if we solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u133	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u134	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the explanatory statement of your PNL, they begin by saying that the Nationalist Block in Wales has been denouncing the policies of cuts and deteriorations in public health carried out by the People's Party. And I totally agree, that's your mantra. They've been in the same dynamic for years, it's your speech, but let me doubt whether you believe it yourself, because, ladies, it's very difficult to keep this speech with the reality that we live today. And besides, they have a problem, and it's because, after so many years with the same reading, the Greeks, who are an intelligent people, don't buy them. The Greeks know and often see that Galicia has had a good, universal, free and quality public health for years. You also say that the pandemic caused by the coward-19 has put a limit on our health system, and I agree, too, is true. I also agree that this, of course, made them live very difficult times, with great tension; and this put the health system to the test. But, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, Galicia was prepared with a strong health system, which year after year improves and a quality public system. You, like me, also live here and know that in Galicia the system resisted the crisis, which resisted and went out with note, that no one remained unhospitable for lack of beds, that our intensive care units always had means and that we were able to offer, in the worst moments of the pandemic, help other communities and also the neighbouring country, Portugal. They were tired of protesting about the lack of beds, the lack of means, the lack of vaccination deficits, because there wouldn't be enough staff, but nothing you predicted happened, rather quite the contrary: no means were missing, the staff responded impeccablely, vaccination is being done in all areas properly and, save you, the rest of the Greeks feel proud of the health we have. They also say it's necessary to invest in health. Obviously, yes, and so it is done by the Government of the Council of Galicia, which year after year increases the health budget. For twelve years now, as you said here, the People's Party has taken the rents of public health; twelve years of management, improvement and growth. Even though the economic situation was the most complicated one in recent decades -- it's been about the year 2009 -- the Board of Alberto Núñez Feijóo was able to overcome this terrible crisis and manage to further improve the health system. Ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic year we count on the highest budgets in the entire history of the community. In health care, 4,587 million euros; 476 million more than the previous year. And if we talk about resources for health personnel, they increase by 154 million, 8.5% over last year. Of course, you, opposition gentlemen, don't seem to care, because they have opposed these budgets, budgets that double the health investment in Galicia; yes, they have opposed these budgets in our autonomous community, but at the same time they applauded budgets that reduce state investments in Galicia by 11%. And they didn't criticize that the Government of Spain invests EUR 104 million less in Galicia, but they didn't like that the health expenditure of the Union had increased by EUR 478 million. And it must be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, that in this year's health budget there are over 150 million for reinforcement contracts for new squares, careers and continuity contracts. The Director General of Human Resources answered us a few weeks ago in Commission 5a on this same subject, and there he spoke of those 17 measures linked to covid-19, the agreed Continence Plan, and the joint negotiation between Sergas and the trade union organizations Labour Commissions, CISF, SATSE -- the IGC was not -- who signed an agreement on 27 November 2020 with those 17 measures agreed. And, ladies and gentlemen, that's how this Human Resources Continence Plan was agreed upon for the Covid-19. All the contracts that were required were extended today. We have also talked about the measures that have led to significant increases in wages, such as the career, which has already been launched this month of May, a process that has been maintained this year, despite the pandemic, and which is an investment of EUR 10 million for this year and others 10 for the next year. Stabilisation measures, annual OPs, specific invitations to tender and annual transfer invitations to tender have been discussed. And yesterday the Official Journal of Galicia published the nomination of the applicants for Sergas' last public job offer. They assume a total of 1,474 aspirings, which will be incorporated from today into the fixed staff of the public health system in Galicia. There are increases of squares in the health areas, with more than 700 created in two years, which also means an improvement in the professional ratios of the squares addressed to specific groups, such as the staff of medical specialists, with the calls of the OPEs and the entry into force of lists and stabilization agreements; the remunerative improvements collected in the field of maternity, with recognition of the continuing care supplements and the guards in a situation of adaptation to the post for pregnancy; the creation of new categories in the home hospital system and of technician in diet and nutrition; the MIR squares, Mr. Torrado. You're like talking about the MIR squares with the mess they have with the adjudication of these squares in Madrid. We have this continuity contract, which doesn't like you, but it allows stability; a labor contract between one and three years old, for both doctors and nursing, and which has been accepted by all trade unions, except by the IGC. We also know a few days ago that the biomedical research foundations of Galician public health centres and the works councils representatives of staff have recently unanimously agreed on a collective agreement that will regulate the work of their workers, with important improvements and, in addition, with retroactive effects. Problems, ladies and gentlemen, there are, there are, all of them, but the important thing is not the problems, the important thing is to detect and solve them, and the Government of the People's Party does not do away with them, they face them. We know that there is a need for doctors from different specialties, mainly from primary and pediatrics. By the way, it's a failure that not only reaches our community, and they know that for years it's been fighting to solve. The removal of the replenishment rate was also requested by an active and passive one, and a few days ago the president asked for it -- to train more family doctors with a special MIR for them. Are we in trouble? All the time, we're not going to deny it, but we have a counselor who cares and cares for it. Prior to the pandemic, these problems were detected in primary school, and solutions were sought and worked on a primary care plan that was agreed with primary professionals, with the objectives agreed by them, which is the French Plan 2019-2021, and there are data: 45 new squares were created in 2019, 102 in 2020 and 161 squares for this 2021. In total, ladies and gentlemen, 306 new squares in primary care and an investment of 8.6 million euros executed. I also want to remember that mental health plan, one of the fundamental priorities for Sergas, with those 120 professionals committed to the years 2020 and 2021, or that Galician strategy for attention to chronicity. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the tremendous cuts that you are talking about; that retreat, that precariousness, that contempt and ill-treatment. Finally, I wanted to talk about the first point of its LNP, which we heard from the Director of Human Resources that this year would start the technological renewal of human resources information systems and that the implementation of a new system will allow the integrated management of staff squares, from creation to depreciation of the square, the management of coverage requests and their depreciations, as well as the follow-up of their coverage by a professional, taking into account the different supply systems, whether OPE, transfer contests, interim or other. Everyone we were there heard. I don't know if we all understand it, but of course sometimes the technology bet doesn't interest them. They were also not interested in Telea, which is the monitoring platform for the Galego Health Service, which has just been selected as a good practice by the European Commission in the annual call and which many countries around us have shown interest in it. As I told you at the beginning of my speech, you are still installed in the negationism of facts, giving you the turn of catastrophe, but the reality is that today most of the Greeks are satisfied with the health they have and, as you say, the world ends up putting each one in its place. To good understandings, few words. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u136	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist Party for its willingness to vote favourably for this non-legislative proposal presented by the Nationalist Block of Wales. And then I'd like to tell the People's Party Member that the truth is that the contributions he made in his speech are renowned. First, it's a fact that they recognize that they pay the staff -- that they give the amount that means paying the staff salary -- that they also call a number of totally insufficient squares and that they have created 306 primary care squares. But what he doesn't say is how many are vacant, because, of course, saying so 306 looks like "it's one thing..." What he doesn't say is how many are left vacant every year and who are not covered; i.e., that's what he forgot. And the truth is that he came here to assume the agreement reached by the professionals of the biomedical foundations when they've been fighting for three years to get that agreement -- that we've brought it twice to this Parliament and that you voted against having it -- call for a trick!, order a trick in Havana! [[Applause]] Because I remind you that the People's Party has voted twice against this Parliament on the initiative taken by the BNG to achieve this agreement, and now it is assumed that it is agreed. Well, it's okay, something to pretend. Look, you say that professionals are delighted with the politics of the People's Party. I'm going to read you a couple of press issues. This is a letter from a doctor on May 30, published in the press, who says, "My name is Álvaro Lamas, I'm a primary health care doctor at the Guard Health Center." -- it's addressed to the president of the Government, the Nunez Fexóo --. "As you will know -- because that would have brought him here -- it's a center with eight family medicine squares and two pediatricians. You'd say, I imagine, that over the past year the number of squares continuously covered was about four, even three or two doctors only in different periods." And indeed, you said -- referring to the president of the board -- that patients have the right to abstain from work claims. With due respect, I must correct it. Patients have the right to stand with them, on their side, demanding the necessary personnel, the necessary material resources, so that we can offer quality services." He says more things, and then he says, "Primary attention assumes more functions than ever, but less personal." I also want to point out to you, Madam, press headlines: "More than half of the MIR is not left in the health centres." [[Mr Prado Cores shows a press headline.]] I'm saying this because if you have a magnificent health policy, you'll deny this headline and say it's a lie, most of you want to stay because you're delighted with that replacement contract. Because it's so fantastic, that's why nobody's left; there's only 30 of 70 left. I'm saying they should at least look at it, and they should analyze why, 70, only 30 are left. We demanded another recruitment policy because he looked at the headlines a few days ago: "France is looking for primary doctors: 8,000 euros a month, 25-30 patients a day, only from Monday to Friday." If you can do things so that professionals want to work in the health system! It's just to offer them an agreed working condition, because it seems that what the People's Party does here is the only thing that can be done, and no, you can do another recruitment policy, another labour policy, so that professionals don't feel exploited and run away from the public health system because they're exploited here. Look, we applied for contract causality. Another press headline: "They condemn Sergas to pay the weekends for a possible nurse who hired only Monday to Friday." This is from one who went to trial, but thousands could go. They could go thousands because this is the recruitment policy of the People's Party: to hire from Monday to Friday not to pay them at the weekend, to hire them from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. to 10 a.m. or from 1 p.m. or 1 p.m. because theoretically from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. and from 1 p.m. to 1 p.m. there is less demand for assistance and with which they work those "hours" can do the work from 7 p.m. That is the recruitment policy of the People's Party. Or a professional who publishes one day: "...67 patients, 49 of the agenda and 18 of that that you call inter-replacement, which are 18 patients who have to take care of the other professionals who are not and who have to see that people have a minimum of attention. And surely, after these 67 -- that sometimes they can get close to 80 and 90, as they've reported -- they still have to make a daily stay so they can be assisted elsewhere, because they haven't been covered with any substitutes for professionals. And we could go on like this indefinitely. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I said that the initiative brought here by the BNG is minimal, because it calls for this recruitment policy to be rectified. We ask for information and identification of the squares because the People's Party is coming by insisting, as the Director General said, that they will put in place a technical system. As if the problem was technical! It's a problem of political will, because knowing what the job situation is is is a political decision to want to light up and tack on the situation, and the People's Party doesn't want it. That's why there is a lack of personal and decent conditions to assist the population as a whole, to ensure care continuity and not to have patients a professional every day. I insist, the decisions made by the People's Party made that during the pandemic the people of Greece were unattended; they were mostly neglected in primary care, and this policy of not replacing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u138	...to close health centers in the afternoons and not open the consultants this summer will mean -- even if possible -- worse health care for the Greeks and the Greeks, so of course. That is why, if they were a little decency, they would vote in favour of this initiative, which I insist is minimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u139	Thank you very much. Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and six other Members, on the request of the Greek Government to the Central Government for attention to the allegations submitted by the Galician Council regarding the draft order establishing the prices of charges of the electrical system and of capacity payments resulting from application from 1 June 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u140	This motion for a non-law was tabled by a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group, an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u141	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u142	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Today, which at this plenary session has talked a lot about Ourense, I want, as an oressá, to take advantage of to congratulate the socialist mayor of Verín on his daughter's achievement in the position of social worker, after a hard examination: 38 questions!... He asked the 38 questions correctly, when his immediate competitor was only able to draw 15. [[Murmurs.]] But I also use it to congratulate the BNG, who takes the social area to the Town Hall, and who, from now on, will have a social worker friend there to do it much better. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group today brings here a non-law of current rage and no opportunistic change in the system of light tariffs by the Central Government that affects us most of the Spanish consumers. An initiative that we amended because the original was already debated and adopted here in April and warned of the problem that there would be in increasing the price of light in the hours of consumption. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this rise in indiscriminate light affects all Spaniards, including those who voted for a progressive social government. Because let's not forget that this rise in the price of electricity is produced under an inclusive, postmodern, resilient and gender-friendly government, so many and many will pay this rise of light much more at ease and much less outraged than with a right-wing government; that is yes, totally grateful, gentlemen of the BNG and the PSdeG to the more social and progressive government of history, which takes in its back the price of the highest light in history. The reality is that we closed the month of May at the highest light price of the last 32 months, with an annual rise of 45.4% for an average user, which translates into a monthly bill of more than 86, euros, almost 30 euros more expensive than in the same month of the previous year. As you will understand, an inescapable rise by most of the families, who today, in a crisis context caused by the pandemic of the coward-19, comes with difficulty as to how to arrive at the end of the month. Just over three years ago, when the light rose by 4%, the current rulers -- so in the opposition -- put the cry in the sky. In 2017 we saw how the BNG and the PSdEG filled the register of this Parliament with initiatives on the price of light or energy poverty, which, by the way, now seems to be a solved issue. It's surprising that in a context of rising light by 45% -- more than that which awaits us, by this change of tariffs -- demonstrations by opposition groups in Galicia are due to the deployment of renewable energy in our community and not to defend the right of everyone and all to have a reasonable price of light. Well, in addition to this price of rising light that we've been suffering for several months, there appears the fabulous idea of the central government to change the system of electricity tariffs; a political decision that is imposed by the tracking ideology of a government that puts the point price of light at the moment of greater daily energy consumption, and only with a single rush, the collectorship. An electric tariff, ladies and gentlemen, which affects 29 million Spanish consumers, rising the price of light at the time of higher consumption. As you can see, here's the energy consumption chart in our country. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a chart.]] It shows that the greatest consumption is produced in the schedules from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and again in the afternoon from 6 p.m. to 22 p.m.; eight hours of high price, which is more than twice the value price, and which obviously does not compensate by changing consumption habits, which demonstrates, gentlemen, the only pursuit of this proposal, the collection effort and hugging all Spaniards. Since June 1st, we have been told that we have to wash, iron and cook at night to get the bill to stay as it was, but this is also false, because they know that, in addition to being impossible to do, there is a high percentage of continuous consumption in our tariff and that, therefore, we will not be able to compensate. Those who advocate telework rise to light for the day, which is when they work; those who say they are defenders of small businesses put the hosts, hairdressers or workshops into triple-cost lighting in hours that have opened their businesses; those who defend rural life, they want, for example, to order the cows at night, not when they touch; or those who because of medical need have to be connected all day to a machine lift their light in an unabated way; and those who defend the electrification of the economy and have just passed a law of climate change to light -- I insist -- in the hours of greater consumption; consumption of energy by necessity and not by taste, gentlemen. And the worst thing, the worst of all, is to have to hear that the problem is whose board it is, or that the bill going up will be just "Eurins," statements by two vice presidents who, if it weren't for the drama that some families live, might be funny. [[Applause]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that thousands of Spaniards have seen their income plummeted as a result of a crisis, they are in ERTE or out of work and have a government that embraces them to taxes, which has just risen to light and already warns that the diesel will rise soon, all to keep a public spending unabated at the expense of the Spanish worker, families, self-employed and micro-enterprises. That's why this group, since this government is free, is obliged to bring an initiative in such a way that it forces the central government to lower the price of light in an imminent manner. So before I start, I'd like to show you a graph to see how it's made up of our bill of light. In this graph, you see, in an invoice of 100 euros, as we have about 1.14 euros in terms of fees, about 37.48 euros just energy and about 21.38 euros in taxes. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a chart.]] Well, in our points in Amendment Nos 1 and 3 we ask that the invoice tranches be reviewed and the electricity tax abolished, and also that taxation be revised in line with the European countries around us. As you will know, the taxing part of the bill of light is one of the highest in Europe. Well, our proposal is to eliminate the tax of 5.1% to the electricity generation, which increases the power and energy consumed; suppression, as has been done for some time, would translate into a light price reduction, in addition to placing Spain in the same range of competitiveness, for example, with Portugal, which, as you will know, share the electricity market. I mean, the cost of energy is the same in Spain and Portugal --85 euros megavatio/hour, for example yesterday -- but at a price, at the end, to the consumer much lower, thanks to lower taxation and to which they don't have this electricity tax and also because they don't have all those various regulated costs. As far as taxation is concerned, the VAT of the energy that records the entire electricity bill in Spain is one of the highest in Europe. Portugal has between 13 % and 23 % -- 13 % for most consumers -- Italy, 10 %; Greece, 6 %; and France, between 5.5 % and 20 %, depending on the consumer. That is why we intend to review and harmonise -- yes, at the bottom -- in line with the European countries around us, the taxation of energy, because it is possible to act on the EVV, PSdEG gentlemen, Mr. Francisco Rivera, and thus confirmed it to the European Union, which, of course, does lower the consumer's bill. The hive is that the members of Podemos -- before the opposition and now in the government -- say that the LVI's downgrading doesn't guarantee the downturn of the bill, when they constantly ask for it when they're in the opposition. And, PSdEG gentlemen, I already tell you, ahead of time, that you come here saying that you can't keep social services, what I'm telling you is that you use the CO2 tax raising rate that the Central Government is going to collect this year 2021 -- that it's 2,200 million euros and that it's more than twice the previous years -- that you might be able to compensate for the drop in taxation on the electric bill. Because, ladies and gentlemen, a disorderly energy transition and no planning as your Government of Madrid is carrying out cannot provoke embracing consumers. If the price of light rises by the cost of CO2, the Government can compensate consumers for the taxing part of the light because it raises more via CO2 tax. On the costs, the extra costs, of what I was talking about before, that we have on our bill -- about EUR 41.4 in an invoice of EUR 100, a basket of tailors -- what we propose is to transfer much of this cost to the general budget of the State, which would also result in a significant decrease in the amount of light, because extrapensular energy costs should be financed by state budgets and not by consumers; the same as the previous errors in energy planning, the known "tariff deficit" generated in the Government of Zapatero, all a deficit of EUR 30 billion, which we also pay consumers on our invoice and which will be a mistake, gentlemen, as you intend, to transfer to the Government's compensation fund, because it will only be able to divert prices from fuels or gas, which are already very high. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As for the proposal to simplify the bill, it's going to be more necessary than ever, because if it already seemed complex to the current one, it's prepared for what it's gathering, because yes, it will bring much more information to the bill, but a normal person will have to do a master's degree in order to understand it. You, who often ask for information on changes or measures, understand that there would be no information campaigns, because nothing was known about how this would be until the same day the new tariffs were introduced. The information came thanks to voluntary media campaigns, because by the Government, zero information. And the whole thing is, once again, by taking on the importance of a crisis context like the current one and having to protect the most needy ones, they can stay out of the electric social bond due to this change in the electrical charging system, because, because they have to increase their power in the cheapest moments so they can put several appliances at once, they can pass from 10 kilowatts/hour and so they can go without social bond, which has their limit in that power. The daily reduction of eight hours in the "vale period" is not compensated by establishing as "vale" the weekends, because consumption is made mostly during the week, and, above all, equipment adapted to time discrimination, such as heating, cannot accumulate on weekends for the whole week -- and today we're about to enter the summer, but we'll see what happens when winter comes and we all turn on the heating-- In order to boost self-consumption, you should have more specific weight on the energy part than on the power part, so as to amortize investment faster in self-consumption installations. That's point four of our amendment. It's over. I hope for your favourable vote, because, if not, again, what will prove here both the Galician Nationalist Block and the PSdeG is worship in Madrid; that's yes, when they're interested; what they're interested in and when they're interested in. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And what happens is they have a complete disconnection of the reality of consumer life, both in their way of life and in the economic problems they are suffering today, in a lamentable context of economic crisis. That's why I expect the PSdEG and BNG to vote in favour of our initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u144	Thank you, President. Really, the least you ask when you talk about a person, as you're talking about the daughter of the mayor of Verín, is that they have the right information and don't make any false accusations, and less -- that I've seen him before -- a person who's been lagging for a long time on a court trial when certain recordings of gifts that a company was giving. And now he speaks of a square, which is not an opposition; it is a six-month square, with a process that is paralysed, precisely, and with a commission formed by all the unions of the Town Hall, which will assess whether this process was legal, Mrs. Novoa. Don't laugh; first inform yourself and then make accusations. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We would like to come here to debate seriously about the reforms that the electricity system needs, about how to implement measures at the autonomous level to promote self-consumption in certain economic activities, such as the gainful holdings, but the sole objective of the People's Party is, once again, to look at how to confront the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez, although the current problems of the bill of light are, as we all know, essentially from the prices of energy in the market, not from the model of invoice. Everything is derived from regulations of the former Government of Mariano Rajoy in the state, which has never cared, absolutely never, for making changes in the regulation that undermined the electric bill, or much less that protected the most vulnerable collectives. It is only to be recalled in 2013 that the introduction of 7% tax to electric production introduced by your minister Christmas and that now, with a terrible defeat, you vote to eliminate this initiative. We don't understand how the People's Party, with the objective of boosting energy efficiency and self-consumption, demands that it be given more specific weight to the term of energy than that of power, when this is precisely one of the reasons for the new electric bill, which is to give more specific weight to the term of energy -- which is variable -- than that of power -- which is fixed, at a proportion of 75% to 25%, and correct exactly what its government has done, Mrs. Novoa. But once again, the People's Party demands in the opposition just the opposite of what it did in the Government. When they ask to extend the right to be able to accommodate the small consumer at the voluntary price, to powers equal to or less than 15 kilowatts for the domestic consumer, we understand that, ideologically, a small consumer for the People's Party is someone who may have hired 15 kilowatts of power. But if you do, a 250-square-foot duplex house with all electrical appliances, heating, hot water and kitchen has enough 9.2 kilowatts. To need 15 kilowatts, you have to own a chasplon, with a heated pool, something that as a small consumer has very little. Perhaps this request is intended, Mrs Novoa, for that sector of the "Cayetanos" which has so much weight on your party. [[Applause]] The most curious thing about all of this is that the new tariff only affects those who want to accept the voluntary price, the small consumer; a system currently hosted by some 11 million users, leaving out of this system about 18 million, who are in a flat rate mode that has a multitude of operators. I mean, 38 percent of the 29 million domestic consumers in this country are affected, which, if they think this system does not benefit them, they can always opt for a flat rate. In addition, when we talk about the change in the rate, we have to say that this is 30% of the total electricity bill, since the rest of the price depends on the market and also on the tax side. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know that this amendment is determined by the requirements of the directives of the European Parliament and of the European Council, so this decree was made which establishes the division of powers between the National Commission on Markets and Competition and the Government of Spain. In this division, the Commission is responsible for regulating the share of the fees -- i.e. the regulated parts of transport and distribution of electricity -- and the Government, regulating charges -- i.e. the costs associated with energy policies -- such as renewables premiums, cost in non-pensular territories, cogeneration and waste and the deficit of past exercises. It is also important to note that the unregulated part, that is, the cost of energy, is regulated by the market itself; it is not established by the Government -- nor by this government, nor was it established by the previous one -- nor is it solved by a Greek public company either. This must be added to the taxing part. What do you want with the new bill? Well, basically, encourage the transfer of electrical consumption from hours of maximum demand, called "point hours", in which distribution and transport networks are saturated, to other "vale" in which they are not. This is by way of three hourly tranches: "valle, plain and tip." And it is also established for the first time the ability to hire two different powers in the "value and point" period to facilitate a loss of the bill for the highest power needs in the "value" period. With these changes it is possible that the weight of the energy we consume is heavier than the fixed part of the bill, also promoting self-consumption, which can be essential for reducing consumption in certain economic activities. The new tariff is accompanied by more information for the consumer -- you think this is a joke -- since it will inform the real power demanded about consumption in each of the last three periods of the last 14 months, and it also includes a QR code for easy access to a comparison of energy offers -- even as you did, Mrs. Novova!-- With this new format the consumer can adjust the power, accompany consumption in different periods and access possible new offers. Just as the People's Party did! The new bill is an opportunity for consumers who want to be more efficient and improve their energy spending. This new system is a decrease of 2.7 of the regulated cost. According to many specialist journals and companies in the sector, in the coming years the cost of electricity in the wholesale market will be lower than in countries such as France and Germany, resulting from the measures being carried out by the current Government, although we are now going through a fatal moment for the costs of CO2 and possible abuse by companies in the sector, which has been asked to be investigated by the regulator in the light of the new measures of the Government, which wants to act against the privileges of energy with which they call "descendous benefits from the sky", which can account for more than one billion for energy companies and which are seeking to affect users' bills. The government is working on new measures to reduce the bill. The sum of the National Electric System Sustainability Fund Bill and the draft CO2 Mitigation Bill will, with its implementation, reduce up to 15% of the electricity bill in domestic and industrial consumers, and, as stated earlier, the Government has already started the processing of this draft law to share the benefit of CO2 cost among all consumers and thus reduce the bill. Power generation on non-CO2 stations generates less costs because they do not have to internalize the price of CO2. However, the operation of the market causes them to be paid at the price of the latest technology entering the system, which is usually gas, which is incorporated in the price of CO2. This differential is received by non-stations, getting this "fall benefit from the sky". This rule will reduce this benefit and distribute it among all consumers. It is estimated that the measure will result in a decrease in the price of electricity bill of around 4,8 % for domestic consumers and 1.5 % for large industry. The objective of the proposal is that part of the carbon dividend can benefit all consumers, reducing the cost of the energy transition. This mechanism, compatible with the national and Community regulatory framework, will promote decarbonisation by promoting the electrification of the economy through the decrease in the price of the invoice, and will help protect the most vulnerable groups. It also approved the Council of Ministers for referral to Congress of the draft law on the creation of the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, a measure with which the Government intends to continue to move forward in the implementation of renewable energies in our country, balancing the system and also contributing to reducing the bill of light for consumers and businesses. It is estimated that, when fully operational within five years, it will reduce the invoice by 13 %. Throughout this time of government -- which you talk about as if nothing had been done -- measures have also been developed to protect the most vulnerable consumers. I'd like to know what you did in the 2009 crisis, Mrs. Novoa, rather than triple the price of electricity without looking at the most vulnerable. This government has created the thermal social bond, the expansion of the electric social bond, as well as extraordinary actions to cushion the impact of curfew-19, especially on vulnerable consumers, the prohibition of cuts and supplies, the automatic extension of the electric social bond, the freezing of the maximum prices of butane candy and the rate of last resource of natural gas, or the extension of the social bonus right to self-employed persons who cease their activity or see their invoicing reduced by the covid-19. This is social policy, Mrs. Novoa. Since the Socialist Group, we have asked the Government of the Socialist Socialist Group to set up new mechanisms and advisory advisory campaigns to support consumers through the implementation of the new electric invoice invoice in the face of the emergence of possible cases of fraud and abuse on the part of some electricity-powered energy traders in Galicia, in line with the skills in consumer and user protection skills of Galicia set by Galicia set out in Article 30 of our Autonomy Statute; to request the Government of the State to continue to continue to reform an inherited system of the People's Party which has systematically fuelled the electricity bill, systematically exacerbated by the electric charge, focusing on fixed concepts and act against climate change; to encourage the State-led strategy against energy poverty, energy-based poverty, energy-saving 2019-2024; to reduce the cost of a tariff which should be simpler, and adapt to real consumption; to continue to prioritize the Government of the Government of the State; to continue to give priority to self-consumption and strengthen its key consumption and to the key of consumption, strengthen its key indicators of poverty by using energy, by means, by using force, by means, by means, by using force, by force, by using strategy, by force, by force, by strategy; to implement, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, the national change; encourage, encourage, the national strategy; encourage, the national strategy; promote the national strategy, the national strategy, the national strategy, the national strategy against climate against climate against climate against climate, the national, the national change, the national change, the national, and energy, and energy, and energy, and energy strategy strategy, and energy, by the national, and energy strategy, and energy, and energy, and energy, by the national poverty strategy and energy strategy and energy, and energy, and energy, the national policy; promote the national, the national, the national, by the national policy strategy, and energy strategy and energy strategy strategy strategy, and energy strategy strategy strategy, and energy, the national, the national, the national, the national, by the national strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy, and energy, the national poverty strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy strategy and energy, and energy, and energy, and energy, and energy, and energy, the national poverty,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u146	...in domestic and industrial consumers. This is what the Government is, while you're unique and exclusively confronting. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Novoa, I, listening to you, thought of what those and the journalists said that the reader had no memory. Because you came here and did a scene that seems that the People's Party has just been born on the planet, that never ruled, that they have not ruled in times of economic crisis, that they have not designed the two state laws of the electricity sector that the Spanish State had and even it seems that when the People's Party ruled three quarters of the bill they were not taxed. They must have been unicorns, Mrs. Novoa. It is true that the reader has no memory, and the Members of the People's Party, because sometimes they don't know very well if they have scruples, because, really... Then they accuse others of washing their hands. [[Applause]] You came here to exercise collective amnesia, even forgetting that this initiative has already been taken to the Commission and that we have also tabled an amendment to improve it from the Galician Nationalist Block -- because when they took it to the Commission it was already timeless and insufficient -- They rejected BNG's amendment, they didn't even want to negotiate the least, and yet we supported their initiative. You came here dramatizing how the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on this issue was neither expected nor put forward initiatives on the price of electricity. Unfortunately about 50 minutes ago we were debating an initiative by the Galician Nationalist Block on the price of electricity! Because whoever hears it is isolated because, of course, it will have a different composition than reality. [[Applause]] But nothing, you have an absolute majority, and you decide what reality is, what truth is, and you're supposed to shut up. But, finally, let me nuance some of the questions. Here is the underlying problem -- and perhaps that's why you came so full of reason -- is that, as I said in the previous debate, the energy policy of the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the State is exactly the same and that the problems arising from it are the same. Now, what's the matter? That you are in opposition to the Government of the State and therefore have to use this Parliament not to discuss other matters, but to try to launch initiatives to see if they do so against Mr Sánchez. Well, at those points where we agree, we're going to vote with you, don't worry. But there are a number of questions about this matter that you have to put on the table, because, in the end, what you've come to expose here so vehemently seems one thing and what your initiative says is another. Because, in the end, in their self-amendment, of course, as they shouldn't be allowed to demand a specific discount on VVI, they come to say generalities and say "review." And so, well, because it's all bona fide intentions statements, because in the end, you know that if they were ruling, they would do the same. So, look, the snoring and blowing can't be. In any case, on the concrete initiative, of course, we have a problem with the price of energy that we should take seriously from this Parliament. And there is a problem: the measures that the Central Government is not taking and the measures it is taking and that are actually causing an important problem in our country. There are factors -- I've said it before -- like that evolution of the price of CO2, which is already a stable issue, a recurring problem and which, therefore, cannot be expected to be solved by magic art. We're seeing that basically this is happening because it's the big electrics that are designing that energy transition framework, which is not being fair or transition or anything like that. And now, above all, they still want to use the resilience funds to enrich their arks. Well, in the face of this question, we insist that there should be a major and complex reform of the charging system in the Spanish State. Obviously, there are technologies that have already amortized their production costs and which would therefore have to be based on CNMC's recognized costs, but which does not happen like now, which are the most expensive technologies that influence the pricing price. And so it happens with many other issues in which we would have to intervene. Obviously, in that sense, we once again appeal to those voices that are increasingly demanding from this country that, as producers, logically, we should have some kind of compensation, because we are the ones who have the social and environmental impact. So, Mrs. Novoa, they read Laxe, they also read the "opinologists" of La Voz de Galicia and see if that's how it would affect them a bit. Because lately you're so excited about this opposition to the central government that I don't lose hope. The truth is, when I see your self-amendment, I'm aware that it doesn't stop being a "doer they do", but at the bottom we're still having some hope from the Galician Nationalist Block that at some point, beyond the stage, if you go a little out of their hands and really stand up for the interests of this country. Indeed, this reform for us is not positive, nor is it positive for Galicia or for the majority of society, because as a priori concept it could be based on a good intention, but in concretion it has important sectors of our damaged society. In addition, the approach is fascinating, because instead of going to for greater energy efficiency, it's not interested in lower consumption, it's consumed at other times. The market controls and the small consumer needs to adapt. But the question is that in application there are collateral damage that we cannot afford as a country -- and less in a moment of economic crisis -- On the one hand, it is the case of domestic consumption, particularly those previously attached to what was known as "time discrimination." We're talking about homes that have heating, hot water and electric cooking -- in Galicia there's more than half a million -- that they're going to have to see how their bill exceeds more than 30% of the total. It's not that these people have case deals, but they have their domestic economy accommodated to a tariff system that was consolidated and now changes. It is also the case of the impact on certain activities, such as agribusiness, which is one of the activities that has strong implementation in our country and in which we know that high energy consumption times coincide with the most expensive periods. I don't really know if Mrs. Teresa Ribera also has any idea what the best times are for muttering cows, but, of course, she hasn't spoken to the owners of this country in making this design, which will have an increase of more than 40%. In Galicia -- I think I remember -- there are over 10,000 farms that are going to be affected by these changes. We also see sectors highly affected by the cowardice on which it is ironic that, on the one hand, we are talking about trying to reduce the VAT of certain economic activities and that, on the other hand, if we apply this tariff to these sectors, like many pemes -- singularly, housing -- which will be damaged. So since the BNG we insist that this is a bad order and that, in addition, it has been a clumsy procedure -- it has remained due to the eruption of the pandemic, but then, despite the continuation of the pandemic, it continued the process and without a sufficient procedure-- So we agree that we should review it and that, if it's a bad order in general, for Galicia, by the weight of these sectors, even more so. And it's also because of the industrial situation, because we're seeing how the result of that electro-intensive status, of course, was a fiasco. The demands from Galicia have not been taken into account and, of course, it now anticipates an increase -- even today the country's industry is going out -- of 40%. So, let's go for a joke. And the biggest nonsense is that a country that specializes in electricity production will now see how everything is over-costed in pemes, domestic consumers, in the primary sector and in the industrial sector. And, of course, this is unbearable. We therefore share the merits, regardless of the intrinsic inconsistencies of the People's Party and regardless of the vehemence in certain exaggerated arguments that raise other issues that would be avoided by the debate. But, of course, we insist that the alternative being presented should be serious. That's why we understand that it would be better to accept our amendment, to open a new process for these tariffs, that there is a more global change, which in that sense progresses in the technologies that must be removed from the invoice account, that progresses on the issue of VAT -- towards an over-reduced VAT -- and that that that special electricity tax is eliminated and the most harmful aspects of our tariff are eliminated. But we also -- we don't cheat -- we understand that in the long term we have to use the position of this country and that it would not be too much for us to sit down to give a rational debate in two directions. On the one hand, it is necessary to bet on the public control of the energy sector. There's no one here saying that the creation of a public enterprise reduces the prices of the bill by magic art, but it does help to intervene in the market, it does help to plan and it helps to avoid these fraudulent practices -- which, of course, the central government does not want to investigate through regulators -- that make energy prices inflate. That would help. And, on the other hand -- as we've already insisted on the beginning of the debate -- it doesn't stop being dramatic that this country, which generates so much electricity, cannot afford to pay the bill by the end of the month. So these are the issues that we wanted to put on the table, because, regardless of the process of selective amnesia that practice each other, this is, of course, a topic that for BNG is a country issue. And we will not stop insisting that more and more people and political and social agents are aware that we should take advantage of the opportunities that give us our strategic position instead of just waiting for them to govern each other to use this issue as a social aeriality and instead of trying to seek a solution in the medium and long term. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u150	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Mrs. Presas, amnesia is yours, because in this plenary, in the past legislate, we lived almost every commission an initiative of energy poverty. For amnesia, yours! Don't come here disguised as a lamb, because, the truth is, you're the wolf with the lamb's skin, Your Honor. No, look...! [[Applause]] You tabled an amendment. [[Murmurs.]] Amnesia also has it, because it's the one that introduced an amendment that says, "Remove electricity tax and review the type of value added tax." [[Murmurs.]] You're the one with amnesia! Look, of course I'm proud of the reforms in the electricity sector that Rajoy's government and the previous ones did, because they came to put order and, above all, create surpluses. Not like you, who create a deficit in the electricity sector that we have to pay all for... how many years? For twenty years, Mrs. Presas? Well, the truth is, you have to have some smell. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos denied with her head.]] Mr. Seco, the truth is you're obvious, but the electric social bond reformed it by the Rajoy government -- and by the way, with the support of the Socialist Party -- He reformed it because it didn't work. When you created it, the electric social bond didn't work, and you had to reformulate Rajoy, Mr. Seco. And from 10.35 kilowatts it goes to 10 kilowatts; hence, out of the electric social bond. And that power has many families in Spain. Look, what is demonstrated by this change of rates, ladies and gentlemen, is that the central government or does not know the reality of energy consumption in Spain -- which is in the morning and in the afternoon, starting at half an afternoon -- or, what's worse, that they do know and take us all for fools, gentlemen. They take us all for fools. Self-employed people who re-registrate cafes, restaurants, hairdressers or workshops don't open at three in the morning to work. The Spaniards and the Spaniards don't put the washing machine on or on the oven or in the morning glass-ceramics, because at that time they're sleeping to rest and be able to work for the day. So we ask them here to check the steps and lower the bill and not raise it. They've been ruling for three years and proving total lack of energy planning. In industrial matters, they drown our intensive industry, which pays, which has to suffer, a price of energy 30 euros above France or Germany. They shut down the power stations without an alternative, they approve a law of climate change to electrify the economy, but they want to shut down the entire marine industry, and now they're adopting tariffs starting at a price of light 40% higher than a year ago, and it turns out that they cause most of the day, the more energy we consume by work and because of need, we pay the greater -- sure -- 30% more, plus that 40%. Yesterday, 82 euros or megavatio/hour. The reality is that the only thing they want to achieve with this, ladies and gentlemen, is to hug the Spaniards and then waste, and, worst of all, then to blame all consumers, because then, when they raise the light rate, they'll say, "Hey, it's their fault, they didn't put the washing machine, the vitroceramics at night, and they didn't work at night!" They work at night! It's your fault I'm gonna pay them the fee! A little respect, Mr. Seco! And that, listen, we'll gladly pay for it because it governs us a social and progressive government, then, because no demonstrations. [[Applause]] The shirt's off. I'd take her in the morning and take her away now. All right? [[Murmurs.]] No demonstrations. Look, don't say here that you can't compensate for costs per collection, because the CO2 tax doubles that of previous years. Well, you can make up for discounts on the bill now, and don't expect to say ads here like the minister announces... for how many years he's going to lower the bill of light? By the way, what we'll see, we'll see what happens to that tax that's going to put on nuclear and hydraulic. Let's see if it doesn't happen like thermals. They announce the closure of nuclear power, but then we'll see how we have backup energy, Mr. Seco. It's just a plan... it's deplanation. It's not energy planning. They've closed the thermals without an alternative, and now they want to close the nuclears, too. You'll get them to close the nuclear sooner, gentlemen. Look, how will energy supply be guaranteed? It was already in January, which had to be activated by the Bridges, because, if not, there was an electric blackout in Spain. But we didn't say anything about that. Look, the reality is that those who would never let the light rise us to the Spaniards and who would stand firm to the electricians are all hiding today and disavowing what they said when they were in the opposition. And, well, BNG comes here as a savior. A little less hypocrisy, Mrs Presas!, because he did it on the previous initiative and he continues to do it now. He ruled with the Socialist Party where they lost, where they lost; and in Madrid they supported Mr. Sánchez. They don't smell to come here and ask for that! I'd be ashamed of myself, really. If I had voted in Madrid Mr. Sánchez and now come here asking for a light bill discount for all consumers... a little stink! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, if you do not support this initiative as we have tabled -- and I stand on the amendments, Mr President; of course, we will not accept your amendments -- which seeks to reduce the bill of light of all consumers imminently, they will be once again portrayed in their worship to the Government of Mr Sánchez, who, for the moment, has achieved these three years of government, is that the light has so far risen by 44%. Let's see in the following bills what happens from this June due to the increase in these new rates. For my part, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Borja Verea Fraiz and six other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the design and official presentation of the National Tourist Plan Xacobeo 2021-2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u152	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr Verea Fraiz has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u153	Thank you, President. Last March, the Minister of Industry called at a meeting of all autonomous representatives with competences in tourism; a meeting that was, at least, peculiar or unusual. The same call was hurried and surprising for such an important topic as the announcement of the National Tourism Plan for Xacobeo, and there was no possibility of having prior action, of analyzing the documentation... the very development of the meeting was also peculiar, unusual. They were not allowed to speak to autonomous representatives and therefore consisted of a monologue, an outline of a document that was finally empty, without real commitments and, of course, without any economic commitment. This was a new disappointment throughout the sector. A sector, the tourist, the hoster, the cultural, that has been observing the central government's performances. And in aspects like direct aid, the central government was not present. If you've activated useful tools, such as ERTE or ICO, but you haven't completed it with those direct aids that would serve to make an efficient economic policy action during the economic crisis. If you did it to the Galician Union through these rescue plans and so on, you have to say, some local administrations. We also called for the arrival of the tourist VAT and there was no response from the central government. The minister only answered through this famous interview in the ABC newspaper, where she said she didn't go down the tourist VE because it would only benefit the hotel and the tourist sector. They were surprised because, precisely, what we wanted with the arrival of the tourist VAT was to reactivate sectors that were collapsed at that time. Neither is the Central Government in the help of the Jacobobeo, which is also being seen in the whole sector. The state's general budgets didn't have one specific match for Xacobeo, zero euros for Xacobeo. And the document we just mentioned, as we say, is a non-investment document, a non-chronology document, and therefore an empty document, as I said before, has as its greatest merit its title and its propaganda. This contrasts with the commitment of the Galician Union; a political and institutional commitment from the very first moment with Xacobeo and which, in addition, has its economic consequence, with these 85 million euros which are planned for the year 2021 and which affect different aspects, such as the issue of security, which will be fundamental in the future post-pandemic. The safety variable will be one of the first aspects that the tourist consumer will value. And this is also understood in the opposite sense: if a destination is unsafely, it's going to have a lot of problems to reactivate. One of the main missions of this Xacobeo budget is to shield that security. There will also be investments in infrastructure, cultural heritage, improved landscape, promoted -- which is logical in such a competitive environment -- and programming investments; a programming that has to be flexible, dynamic and that has to be constantly adapted to health circumstances. What we ask of the central government is precisely a political and institutional commitment and, at the same time, an economic commitment. The central government is also the Government of all the Greeks, the central government also has responsibility for Xacobeo as a national tourist event and with international projection. And what we see is that there are no concrete economic commitments, but neither is that institutional commitment nor that political commitment. So, what we have right now is a promise, a promise that it took to take the Central Government itself from political pressure and from the pressure of the sector itself as a result of this failure with the presentation of the National Plan, and that there will be a presentation of the National Plan with specific shares, with concrete actions and with investments before the summer. We have no doubt that this promise will be fulfilled in the coming days and in the coming weeks, but we understand that it will be late. It's late, and besides, what's sadder, it's too late. It's late because if there was no expansion of Xacobeo, there would be virtually no state funding for Xacobeo anymore. And we understand that, in addition, it is obliged by what we have just said, because, following this failed presentation of the National Plan, the sector and political pressure have forced this commitment. As we said, this parliamentary group wants the support of the Central Government for Xacobeo. The Xacobeo needs the central government. It'll be a better Xacobeo if we all participate: the local administrations, the Galician Union, of course, but also the Central Administration. And in that context, President Núñez Feijóo asked President Pedro Sánchez to leave EUR 100 million in two major blocs: 70 million for rehabilitation and development of all the cultural interests that are along the roads, and those 30 million that we have already discussed on some occasion for programming, which, of course, will have to be flexible and adaptable to health restrictions. In any case, it is a new opportunity to achieve unanimity, to move a solid message, a powerful message, that in Galicia we want the central government to participate in our Xacobeo; an opportunity we lost a few months ago and that we bring back to this plenary session to try to achieve that unanimity. In addition -- and I insist -- we trust the Government to keep its word and that before summer -- that is, in the next few days -- we present this national plan with specific games and concrete actions. Therefore, we also ask to be able to participate in that elaboration, in the design of that plan, and of course -- because political actions are also important -- we hope that you will accept the invitation you have been offered for the presentation of that national plan to take place in Galicia. Just insist on getting that unanimity to send a single message, and I'd like to move that it'll be a better Xacobeo if it's a Xacobeo of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Gallego Sanromán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u155	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Isaura, I know you're here with us, and I know you're giving me encouragement, as always. Thank you, Isaura. [[Applause]] Well, now we're going to talk about Xacobeo and the Government of Spain. Well, the Government of Spain considers the celebration of the Xacobeo 2021-2022 as a very important event to promote and increase the knowledge and fame of the Santiago Way in international markets, so it will collaborate with the Council of Galicia in its celebration. The Government of Spain's commitment to Xacobeo for the next few years exceeds EUR 90 million. These are projects in which different ministries are involved and which allow to address the rehabilitation of buildings with architectural interest, as well as the restoration of works of cultural interest and the improvement of the infrastructures found in numerous municipalities along the different paths of Santiago. In total, there are about one hundred and fifty actions in project and execution, with which the state reaches more than 60 municipalities throughout Galicia. By 2020, there were aid amounts of 20.5 million, and this year it provides government aid of 40.5 million. In total, 61 million euros to which Galician municipalities can host themselves to finance projects related to the Santiago Way. The Ministry of Transport, Sustainable Mobility and Urban Agenda commits an action plan on road safety on the Santiago Road, with a global investment of 12.5 million. As for the Architectural Rehabilitation Programme, also the Ministry of Transport, it includes actions such as the restoration of the stairway and the opening crypt of the cathedral of Santiago, which has a cost of 1.4 million, and is already running. One of the most involved ministries, no doubt, is that of Culture. This ministry will invest 30 million euros to have the best Xacobeo 2021-2022. The Xacobeo Program for the Conservation and Improvement of Cultural Property is an investment, between 2019 and 2022, of, as I said, 30 million euros, and consists of more than thirty actions. Projects worth EUR 3 million are under way under this initiative, most of which correspond to various performances in Santiago Cathedral. The Government of Spain, through different ministries, has invested 20 million euros in Santiago Cathedral in recent years. In December was produced one of the world's most important heritage recoverys, the rehabilitation of the basilica of Santiago Cathedral. The rehabilitation of Santiago's cathedral was doing it from the Government of Spain, from that government that says it doesn't do anything in Santiago, in James, or in the Way. Well, here's 20 million for Santiago's cathedral. [[Applause]] Moreover, on May 27, with the rehabilitation of the corner of the church of San Julian do Camiño, in Palas de Reis, the commitment of the Government of Spain to the Way of Santiago and to the Xacobeo was again strengthened; the initiative financed by the Ministry of Transport, with an investment of EUR 323,000. The Ministry of Culture also held the first Escape Room of the Way, which has been open for a few weeks in Kings Palaces, and plans to inaugurate another similar one in the coming dates in Sarria. The Secretariat of the State of Tourism, on the margins of the promotion that the Way of Santiago carries out with Tour España, in collaboration with the Junta de Galicia, created a working group in July 2019, under the supervision of the Sectoral Tourism Conference, which revolves around the collaboration of the Ministry of State of Tourism in Xacobeo. The so-called group, in which all the autonomous communities that pass through the Way of Santiago, met on July 16th, and later, on September 18th, in order to jointly re-evaluate initiatives and advocacy actions within the framework of the Xacobeo 2021-2022, after the crisis of coward 19th. At the various meetings held by this working group, on November 16th, the accessibility, signage and dissemination and promotion of different roads and routes were proposed and discussed. The established lines of work were: the inclusion of the Way in the Marketing Plan 2021; the creation of an APP on the Way of Santiago; the coordination of the Strategy for Promotion and Information on the Way of Santiago and Xacobeo 2021-2022 with the rest of the autonomous communities; the study and improvement of the signage of the various roads; expanding the field of action in Portugal; and working on the accessibility of the Way through the agreement signed with the Eleven. As you can see, autonomous communities are already participating in the Xacobeo, which is a request you had in your non-law proposal. The autonomous communities are already collaborating, opinionating and participating with the Central Government. In addition, on March 4, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism, Mrs. Reyes Maroto, participated in the meeting to prepare the Xacobeo National Tourism Plan 2021-2022, which aims to serve as a lever to reactivate this tourist destination and promote Santiago's Ways, generating a unique product. The minister explained the main actions that the plan will have, such as the rehabilitation of immovable property of the historical heritage with a tourist use to make it sustainable, tourist sustainability actions of destinations, measures to promote and prioritize plans in the destinations that form part of the Santiago Ways; and in addition, the model of the network of smart tourist destinations will be expanded and actions to promote the Xacobeo 2021-2022, both nationally and internationally. The Government of Spain currently has 103 shares associated with the promotion of the Way of Santiago and the Xacobeo 2021-2022. They highlight, for example, the photographic exhibition of the Way of Santiago scheduled in Oslo for the months of June and July, the presentation for the press on Xacobeo planned in Chicago, Xacobeo's specific presentations for agents scheduled in Rome, Paris and Lisbon, local campaigns in Italy, Ireland and Brazil, the formation of agents in Mexico and Russia, 36 international press trips and 21 travels of agents, two of them particularly oriented to accessible tourism in Dublin and Tokyo. And it must be mentioned, in particular, the conversion of the tourism office to Rome, located in the central square of Spain, into an interactive multimedia centre that includes a Xacobeo information point and which can be the setting of various activities directed at the press, agents and the general public. As you can see, there are a lot of investments and actions by the government of the state for the Way of Santiago and for the Jacobean. The Government of Spain is supporting, and will continue to support both the Way of Santiago and the Xacobeo. The involvement of the Government of Pedro Sánchez is total with the Xacobeo and the Way of Santiago. Although you repeat over and over again that the Government of Pedro Sanchez does absolutely nothing on either the Jacobean or the Way, here are all the things that are being done, and there will be more. I won't be tired of repeating all the performances that the central government is doing. Yes, we still don't know what's going to be done with the 85 million budget that the Government of Beaver has and they're asking for 100 million. It's incredible! It's really incredible that you don't know what you're going to do with the 85 million, because there's no programming, there's no programming today, and they're asking for more money. [[Applause]] It's amazing, really! All we know is there's 8 million for a giant promotional campaign and this weekend they said there would be concerts. Man, I hope there's something else, because 85 million looks like many million just for these things. So let's hope there's a schedule. I'd like someone, one day, to tell me what's going to consist of that programming, because we've been asking him several times, both in commission and in full. What's going to be done with those 85 million euros? Please, if anyone can answer me, I'd be delighted. The Government of Spain will continue to support Xacobeo with all the performances that are being carried out and that will be carried out throughout this year. And I'm telling you that we're going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal, because we're considering improving the future of tourism. We're thinking about improving society, not like others. We shall then vote in favour of this non-law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u156	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pérez López has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u157	President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The present PP initiative is a paradox. From the Parliamentary Group of the BNG -- and also from the PSOE, it is true -- we have since the beginning of the political course by presenting initiatives in which we request the agreement of the House groups to urge the Board to explain -- or to explain -- that it would consist of the indispensable reorientation of Xacobeo in the context of pandemic, and the response of the Board over and over during these months was to throw balloons out and, in this case, on some occasions, with greater or less elegance. Since the BNG we've already warned in September last year that this redefinition of Jacobo was essential. The Pandemic situation at the Greek, Spanish and international level advised, although it was only prudent, to give a tour to the traditional conception that the German Government has of the Xacobeo. This traditional conception has always betted by mass events, concentrated in Santiago de Compostela, of undeniable media repercussions, but also of a very high economic expenditure and an unknown economic return by the opacity of the Board's accounts. It's undeniable that Xacobeo has been and is overrated, from the budgetary point of view, by the board of Galicia. Even in a year of absolute uncertainty about the evolution of the pandemic, as was the year 2020, the Union has not changed its step in this direction. This event had an important budget start in 2020, 82 million; a year in which, due to the pandemic, it was almost impossible to develop virtually any activity. And what did he do to Junta with this budget? For the question of this group from the Vice-President, it has been pointed out that, in relation to budget cuts for Xacobeo, what was to be spent in 2020 and could not be spent on the pandemic would have prepared the paths of the Way of Santiago by the time the pilgrims arrived. That's it! When the worst was going through the tourist sector -- that for months, the toughest ones in the pandemic, where the restrictions of activity, of mobility, were higher; months in which they didn't have any help from either the Galician Union or the state --, from the vice-presidency they took off with such an assertion, and this statement, of course, was not elegant; but it was certainly censorable and irresponsible. That the Spanish Government does not comply is bad, but that the administration closest to the Greeks and the Greeks, as it is the Union, did not articulate direct help lines for nine months, as the sector demanded, and if he dedicated himself to the money of the Xacobeo to cover baches, it was, of course, to get colored. When the tourism sector in general, over the month of September, cried for help from all institutions, when we all saw the closure of hundreds of businesses that lived from tourism, the Greek Government maintained a Jacobean plan that had already been before the pandemic; an unserviceable and far-fetched plan from reality, taking into account the new reality marked by coward-19. What did I suppose? That they didn't spend a penny of that Xacobeo money on helping a sector that has been dying for months, and this is unjustifiable. Mr. Feijóo's Galician Board dedicated that budget departure from Xacobeo to preparing the Routes for the arrival of visitors in 2021 this year; it is now -- nine months after these glorious statements -- when timidly starting to notice the arrival of pilgrims -- almost all national, of course -- Hundreds of businesses associated with Xacobeo and tourism were left along the way. Part of that money was also devoted to an event of tremendous worldwide impact, with brutal economic feedback for all the Greeks. What's clear is that Xacobeo for PP is very important, so it's doped from the budgetary point of view. And because it is important for the PP, the Union has refused to carry out a necessary reformulation of Xacobeo during 2020, waiting for an improvement in the epidemiological situation that it has never arrived. And why is it so important to the People's Party? Because, traditionally in Jacob's Xacobeo, the PP-Junta autobomb campaigns mix in such a way that it's very complicated to know where they end up and where they start each other. There's a clear political instrumentalization of the Xacobeo, an instrumentalization which the PP and the Government of Galicia perform in a blatant manner. And it's also important because the Junta, in the current context, has done away with all the expectations of economic recovery to Xacobeo 2021 and has breathed relief when it reached that extension which I supposed to extend to the year 2022, from religious optics, and of course also economic. But the problem is that this immobilism and that absolute lack of seat belt of the Government of Greece to redirect the Jacobean have meant for the tourist sector to lose a lot of months; months in which they closed down a lot of businesses that depended on the activity generated by this event. When the evolution of the pandemic and the advance of the vaccination show us a little light, from Junta there was presented a roadside concert poster, "The Sound of the Way-Perseidas", a format that distributes a series of performances in three weeks of July and August and which, once again, is confined to a specific geographic location, in this case, the Mount of Gozo. Surely these actions will generate a certain movement in the city of Santiago de Compostela, but little more. In short, the action of the Union on Xacobeo during 2020 and what is next to the year 2021 has limited itself to conditioning the Way of Santiago for pilgrims, which is now when they start to count, as well as the promotional initiative "Field the Way". And a few days ago there was also an announcement of a promotional campaign to bring tourists to Galicia in the year 2021 and during 2022, endowed with nothing more and nothing less than 8 million euros, and for this reason they do not spare money. It is clear that promotion is important, but we are talking about EUR 8 million. A lot of announcement and promotion that shows what we've been reporting since BNG for months: that Xacobeo needs planning in his programming and clarity in his investments. You can't just be pure propaganda. So let's say again, Xacobeo is a great product, but it's not going to be the solution to tourism in a year as complicated as this is. It can help, but it won't be enough to achieve the reactivation of the sector, given that international tourism is still taking enough to activate itself. And so since June I had to bet on diversifying the offer to complement this event. But unfortunately, from the publication in the last few days, you can conclude that the Board's bet does not go through that much needed diversification; they repeat the model again. And the problem is that this PP Xacobeo model affects -- and repeats -- the same mistake: lack of planning and lack of tourism investment in fundamental issues for Galicia, such as nautical tourism, cultural, urban, thermal tourism, and even space management. The investments of Xacobeo should focus on issues that serve both the tourism sector and the local population -- we say it more often, and we will continue to insist -- not only on Santiago and the places the Way talks about, but also on the rest of the country, because there are many areas in the country that do not benefit from the Xacobeo, as the People's Party conceives. In order for Jacob to have an expansive and positive effect throughout our country, it would be necessary for investments destined for this event to generate more work opportunities, with decent jobs, stable and not precarious, and for those investments to improve the infrastructure for society and the standard of living for the local population in general, and not just for those who live near the different roads. And that can only be achieved by the diversification of the tourist offer, by distributing investments throughout the country and, above all, by changing the concept of pure propaganda that the People's Party has of Xacobeo. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this initiative is a paradox, because it asks the State what we have been asking for since the BNG for months ago from the Galician Union: planning and concretion of the actions of Xacobeo, and planning and concretion in the application of the economic resources destined for Xacobeo. In a synthetic way, with this initiative, the PP calls on the State to take into account the design of the tourist strategy of this national tourist plan Xacobeo 2021-2022 and to be given the floor to apply the economic resources that this plan will be destined for Galicia in the coming years. But for that it would be necessary to do a prior job at the institutional level and to have political weight in the decisions adopted by the State and reached by Galicia, which can only be achieved by sinking into self-government and assuming all the competences that legitimately correspond to our country; just what the PP has not done, that since the minute one of the legislation has been most busy in looking for the political confrontation and wear of the central government that in creating spaces of understanding that would facilitate measures to improve the serious situation in which many sectors of our country find themselves, and in particular the tourism sector. But it must also be said that two don't fight if you don't want one, and the government of the state has entered that sterile and indecent game at a time of crisis like what we live, taking harmful decisions for our country, such as the criteria for sharing European funds, which we have criticised again and again in a clear manner from the BNG. In spite of the fact that this initiative has to be marked once and for all in that connection, and once between the Central Government and the United States, what is really being asked is that the Greek Government may participate in the framework of that strategic plan, in the decisions of the Spanish Government affecting Galicia and in the management of the economic resources that may come from the State. That's why we will support it, and we will demand at its time of the Government of Greece that the economic resources that can reach -- if they arrive -- if they are destined for tourism investment in fundamental issues for Galicia, such as those we have already said, nautical tourism, cultural, urban or thermal tourism, which complement the Xacobeo and at the same time enable them to move forward in the diversification of tourism supply and in a more distributive and fair model for the whole of our territory. A sustainable tourist model and wealth generator for our country is that there is a plan for economic return. For BNG, tourism in general and Xacobeo in particular cannot be understood as a expense -- already finished, president -- there has to be an economic return planning that allows you to know how much will be collected for each euro invested. The rest will be propaganda and planning failure. There is not Galicia for propaganda, what the tourist sector needs at this critical moment are certain, not policies oriented to the promotion of PP and Mr Feijóo, whether here, in the country, in Madrid or in the Vatican. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u158	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Borja Verea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u159	Thank you, President. There's a question that keeps going over constantly when we look at the matter of Xacobeo, and it's: Why doesn't President Sánchez's socialist government support Xacobeo? Any political decision, by action or by default, has to have a motivation, you have to have a rational explanation, you have to have some argumentation. And I'm no longer saying administrative assumptions, summoning a grant, removing a resolution or adjudicating a work, which, by law, have to have that motivation, but strictly politics should also have a rational argument behind it. Even at the local level, if a local executive criticizes a mayor because he doesn't respond to the demands of a neighbor, there's an argument behind it, or when a political group defends a government's particular energy policy. What we find here is the question of why the Government of Pedro Sánchez does not support Jacob is that there is no answer, because, in addition, what there are promises that are not fulfilled. And as long as we don't have a rational explanation and these promises don't come true -- that, I insist, we trust that the next few days, as President Sánchez's Government promised, if you announce this national plan with specific games and concrete actions -- until that moment does not come, we only have the image of a prisoner government that continues to discriminate against Galicia and that, in addition, continues to look down on Xacobeo. We can ask ourselves another question: if Xacobeo were to take place in another city, or another autonomous community was the protagonist of a phenomenon such as Xacobeo, like a national tourist event and with this international projection, would we be facing the same passivity of the Central Government in participating, engaging and being part of this phenomenon of Xacobeo? Well, we don't know the answer, but we figured that it wouldn't be so passive and that it would have greater proactivity. Six months ago we couldn't achieve that unanimity, but those we bet on insisting on, on demanding this commitment to the central government, showed that we were right. I am grateful for the support of the Socialist Group's GNP. We're going to expect these promises to be fulfilled in facts, in concrete actions, in real investments, and that we get among all of us -- as we said before -- that the best Xacobeo, no doubt, is the best Xacobeo of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-08-DSPG039.u160	Thank you, Mr. Borja Verea. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
