ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u1	Good morning. We resume the session with agenda item 5, questions for the oral response of the President of Galicia. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, asked about the commitment of the Government of Greece to environmental and nature-care policies in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. "We socialists not only say we are socialists, we show with our life that we are." This was the headline, the main statement that our comrade Isaura Abelaira made in her last interview, and she wanted to start my intervention today in this plenary with a reminder to an optimistic, vitalist, committed and fighter woman who enjoyed much at this parliamentary stage and who fought a disease that gave her many difficulties and was an example of the ability to fight against adversity. Thank you, Isaura, for your commitment. [[Applause]] Let's get to the question of the agenda. Mr. Feijóo, there is on planet B -- there is no planet B -- and there is no Galicia B. The defense of the natural environment, of the environment, of sustainability, of biodiversity is a fundamental issue for Galicia of the present and for Galicia of the future. And that's why we need to protect Galicia A, true Galicia, green Galicia, real Galicia. Our land is a rich community in nature, but with you there is a clear deficit in environmental policies. A government unable and unwilling to assume a green agenda for our country. And we're talking about Galicia's present but above all we're talking about Galicia's future, the right to the future of Galicia's youth. Either Galicia defends the natural environment or it won't be Galicia. And Galicia cannot be Spain's last community in environmental policies. And you have to change your lack of environmental and ecological commitment because your government's action on this issue deserves a fraught suspension. If we speak of the Natura Network, we are the last of Spain by protected surface as Nature Network, 11% against 27% of the natural average. And we also have, according to WWF, the worst management plan of the Natura Network in Spain, its note is a clear suspension. If we talk about natural parks, the real conservation strategy of natural parks is lacking. And in two of the six natural parks there isn't even a management plan, which is mandatory by law; so it happens in the Straits of the Eume and in the Serra do Jurés. His note is a clear suspension. If we talk about threatened species of 200 threatened species in Galicia in wildlife and flora only 3 have recovery plans, 72 in danger of extinction do not have that plan which is also mandatory under the Biodiversity Act. Clear suspension of the Union Government. If we talk about the regeneration of rivers and rivers, of pollution, 21 years after the European Water Directive, there are still many areas in Galicia where pollution cannot be watered. His note is a clear suspension. If we're talking about Earth's ecosystems, forests, forest protection, there's a retreat in the native forests and the general care of forests -- a question that has a great deal to do with fires -- which means that you also have a clear suspension. If we talk about the recycling of the circular economy, recycling in Galicia does not reach 20%, when the European target is 50%. They've opted for incineration instead of recycling, their note is a clear suspension. And if we talk about energy, they went wrong in the model, they didn't hit the planning; they met the challenges of the coal model; they despised renewable energies for years, and now they go on aimlessly. A clear suspension. And if we talk about budgets, this year's budgets for the Galician Union are about 35% lower in the environment than those that were in the last year of progressive government in Galicia. A clear suspension. You have to choose, Mr. Feijóo, between being a change agent or a pollutant agent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u3	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u4	And we want to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that abandoning toxic policies and betting on a green Galician, because the right to the future of the Greeks and the Greeks is at stake, and you with those policies of environmental regression are a toxic government for the environment in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u5	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our first words must be of respect and remembrance for Mrs. Isaura Abelaras and also for a loving message from the Government and the majority group for her family -- which we have already done -- and for her political family, the Socialist Party of Galicia. Mr. Knight, I don't know exactly who asked you the question, but I remember some of the interventions of the previous spokesperson for the Tide, where I warned you that whoever asked them the question wasn't doing you any favors; on the contrary, you just described a country that, of course, has nothing to do with Galicia. We've been engaged to the green Galicia for 12 years, we've inherited and with Galicia now greener than we were when we arrived at the Government. We've been betting for a decade on biodiversity, natural spaces, climate change, rivers, rivers, landscapes. We passed 10 laws just to protect everything I just said; when you were in the government you passed zero. We approved park management tools and protected spaces. We actually have 6 and we approved 4; when you were in the government, zero. Your Honor, today is not 11% of the protected territory, 42% of the protected territory in Galicia. And the main exponent is the 2019 Natural Heritage Act. We have been investing 3,600 million euros in environmental policies in these 12 years. I'm saying I don't know who's doing his papers because the budget for the year 2021 in the environment is 373 million euros, 42% more than you used when you were ruling, that's right, with fictitious assumptions and 2,000 million euros to be owed. We approved the contaminated solid waste law, the circular economy strategy, the Galician climate change strategy... we are leading Spain -- including -- and Europe in climate change policies. Your Honor, in the first balance, in the Climate Change Strategy -- which, by the way, you didn't do anything, you didn't even have a department dedicated to this purpose -- we achieved objectives that we're still working on: climate neutrality, emission reductions, the clean energy model, and the improvement of energy efficiency. And I'm surprised you guys come here and say we're worse than the rest. Well, look, Your Honor, by issue, 23.8% of emission reductions; the rest of Spain, an increase of 8.5. We're 32 points below the national average on emissions, charging them still Meirama and The Bridges. In a renewable energy bet, 56.1% of Galicia's electricity generation is of renewable origin, twice as much as in the European Union and more than 20 points above the national average. And you come with your policies, what are your policies? Now I'm sure you'll tell me the Environment Council that you've been in the bipartite for four years, exactly what laws and parks have managed and what proposals have you built? Your Honor, EUR 1,100 million in hydraulic infrastructure. We found the laughs with awareness of the European Union, especially Vigo's. You guys don't even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u8	...set Vigo River Debugger Project. I'll give you three examples: the State Climate Change Act, which sucks in the entire community on the coast of Spain and very much in Galicia. The Waste Law, exclusively taxes, taxes, and taxes; talking about recycling when Sogama is a recycling model in the country and you are managing issues like Nostián, who don't even know where to take the garbage before recycling it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u10	But, with all due respect, to speak at this moment of an erratic policy; the erratic policy is the Agenda 2050, Your Honor, which is an amendment to the whole of Spain's gain policy and, consequently, Galicia's policy. And I don't say so, Agrarian Unions, the diet against Galicia of Agenda 2050 -- a union that I think you know --. So, Mr. Knight, more budget than ever, 42% more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u12	...more updated regulations than ever, 10 laws in 12 years. Pioneers in the circular economy strategy, climate change, emission reduction, and leading the bet on renewable energies. Mr. Knight, of course he is confused from country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u14	...this is Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u15	Thank you, President. Replica. Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm concerned, Mr. Feijóo, that you're keeping that toxic discourse for the environment and for the natural Galician of our country, that you're still ignoring reality and continuing in the policy of continuous deception trying to move a reality that derives from the potential of all the ecological in Galicia, but that it has setbacks because every time you approve a law, it's a trap for the environment. And we want to ask you to explain why if there are six natural parks that have to have a plan of use and management, there are two of them that don't have it. Why do the Eume Strawberries or the Surgeon Mountains still have no such plan of management and use? Why is there no real and effective conservation of useful tools in other natural parks? Why are there 72 species of wildlife and flora in danger of extinction that lack recovery plan? Why have the budgets of the Environment Board been reduced to 35% with respect to the budgets of 2009? Why don't you explain to Galicia that the People's Party has been a negationist of climate change for so long and that you have continued to opt for coal production as a way to generate energy? You have to remove the mask now, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Either we bet on a new kind of environmental policy or they'll continue to damage our natural wealth and our environment, and the Greeks of the future won't allow it and they won't forgive it. We have to bet on a big green pact that allows us to face an energy mixed motion. And you made a mistake because for years, Mr. Feijóo, your energy policy was to be the delegate of the major electricity companies, the delegate of Endesa. You kept saying a few weeks ago that you had to maintain energy production with coal, when it's a production model, Mr. Feijóo, that you know it implied that in Galicia we had some of the most polluting power stations in all of Spain and all of Europe. [[Applause]] And we have to move forward because you've been allowing toxic policies and bet on toxic policies for the environment because you're not able to do industrial policy, because you don't have the ability to generate jobs with renewable energy, with new production models, to generate a fair ecological and energy transition. And that's why they were out of the way, that even the big power stations were more environmentally friendly than you when you decided to take a step forward and, by maintaining the activity, they cut off certain production channels that were so polluting in CO2 gases that they implied a fall back. What progresses in Galicia in environmental matters is despite you, who even voted against the Climate Change Act in Congress of Deputies and the Senate, because you don't have a commitment to a Green Galicia, with a reality about the biodiversity and sustainability of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u18	I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, to make a complete amendment to the environmental policies of the Union. That having his hand to achieve a great green pact between all political forces to achieve a path to the future that does not involve us going back. Either they leave toxic policies or they're going to deny the Greeks and the Greeks of the future the possibility of enjoying a natural Galician. And for that, we have to rescind all the environmental policies of the Galician Union to have a clear commitment to biodiversity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u19	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u20	...with the sustainability, with the climate change, so that you'll no longer be the last of the list by hour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u21	Finish, please, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u22	...to work in the quality of the environment and green commitment. [[Applause]] We ask you to defend Galicia A...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u24	...because there's no Galicia B.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u25	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u26	Because there's no planet B and because you have to be agents of change and you don't have to be polluting agents with toxic policies for the natural environment in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u27	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u29	Thank you. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. He doesn't think that coming with a green tie you become a green deputy is different things. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] But the truth and the truth, Your Honor, is that it was time, Your Honor, for you to accept a reasonable proposal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm not worried about Mr. Errejón, Your Honor, I am Greek and work in Galicia, I live for this country and I defend this country; I don't come here with such questions as you believe you don't really know what the Government did when you had the opportunity to rule, your Government. [[Murmurs.]] We do not vote against the Climate Change Act, we abstain. You know why? Because we are in favour of the canteens, the debuggers, of the 5,000 traditional buildings of Galicia in the maritime-terrestrial zone,......because we are in favour of fishing, aquaculture, because we are in favour of traditional Galicia and Galicia that has always respected the maritime-terrestrial zone. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And by the way, we asked for the transfer of the maritime-terrestrial zone and asked for a "federal" party like the Socialist Party. The answer was "in no case." That's right, in Catalonia, as it is natural, there's a maritime-terrestrial zone and what they ask, Your Honor. But let's go to the facts because, in the end, you come here, you say what you want, and that's it. Look, about Nature Network, when we arrived at the government in 2009, the two-party government had not approved the Nature Network's Master Plan. Four years. We approved the Plan Director of the Natura Network in 2014. He didn't approve any management instruments, and today the Secretary General of the Socialist Party comes here saying that there isn't a single management tool for natural parks. [[Murmurs.]] In fact, when you were in the government, zero, zero, not a single management tool for natural parks. [[Murmurs.]] We approved the Atlantic-Cies National Park against you. And we approved of the remaining six parks 4, 70%. We'll keep working, I'm sure against you. And when we want to close the Strawberries of the Eume, the first one to protest against is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. They had an obsolete regulatory framework, they left all the laws of the Vigilant Fraga. The Nature Conservation Act of 2001, the Fisheries Act of 1992, the Hunting Act of 1997, the Animal Protection Act of 1993, zero laws. We approved a 2013 Hunting Act, a 2017 Animal Welfare Act, a 2019 Natural Heritage Act, a 2020 Continental Fisheries Act. This is the X-ray, Your Honor, of everyone's history. Not a single measure of climate change, they didn't even have unity. We approved the Strategy for Climate Change and Energy in 2019, approved the Strategy for the Circular Economy in 2019, and approved a new Waste Law in 2021. No measure concerning the circular economy, zero. They left behind President Fraga's Waste Management Plan 1988-2006. We approved a new urban waste management plan and PRIGA. Six wind farms, Your Honor, on Natura Network. That's your balance. Well, better said, the BNG. And now it turns out that, after approving 24 laws and strategic plans for 12 years, investing 1,100 million euros in hydraulic infrastructures, completely sanitizing Vigo's stream, being practically sanitizing Arousa's stream and being working in Pontevedra's stream and thus leaving all the rivers in the country, 16 laughs, do you come to lay down duties?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u32	Your Honor, we'll keep working. The Galician Union is committed to being a neutral carbon administration, we will continue to work and the Galician Union will be one of the first actors in achieving the zero-emission target. But, Mr. Caballero, Alu Iberica, Alcoa, the Bridges, Meirama, Gamesa, Ence, is your environmental commitment an economic desert? [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, to talk about Galicia's future, the first is to have a future. To talk about green jobs, first of all, it's to have jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u33	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u34	And that's why, Your Honor, I invite you to give a press tour of yourself and me at the Bridges.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u36	If it seems to you, if it seems ordered by the mayor of the Bridges who gives the floor to you and me to explain to the Bridges... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u37	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u38	...his energy policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u40	Your energy policy is to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u42	...which interests certain electricity companies that with little investment will earn much more than with less investment. And so, Your Honor, I am counting on any kind of transition, no doubt economic, planned and orderly. They're obsessed with associating the slogans of the Socialist Party with the green theme...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u43	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u44	Your Honor, for now the symbols of the Socialist Party are not working for a greener Spain, but for a poorer Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u45	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Council of Anne Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, asked about the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to curb the energy policy of Galicia and the environmental damage it caused
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me also make my first words of remembrance to Isaura and also to move our affections to his family and also to his socialist family. And going to the question, gentlemen, there are images worth more than a thousand words and today I want to bring two images that happened on the same stage. This is April 2009, here we see you, Mr. Feijóo, embraced with enthusiasm and fervor to the electric lobby. And we have another image that is last June 5th, World Environment Day, where thousands of people stood in front of the predatory wind model of their government, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] And you have to decide, will you continue to embrace the electric lobby or will you stand by the general interest of Galicia? We're an wind power and you have no right to turn that wealth into a ball or a free bar for the policy of our country's resources. Wind energy is a great opportunity for Galicia in the future, but you're determined to go on in the past, and it treats Galicia as a colony that brings raw materials so that a handful of multinationals will bury themselves here and leave us the crumbs. Take off the glasses of colonialism and let go to the green Galicia of the 21st century. We bear the environmental and social cost of producing electricity, but we pay more and more light and thousands of jobs are at risk precisely because of the price of energy. And we can't allow an opportunity for Galicia to stay in an electric winding ball, which is in business for the shareholders of Iberdrola, Endesa, Naturgy or Greenalia, who already know how they use the rotating doors that work for the Socialist Party and for the People's Party. Today we have 4,000 airlines in our country installed in 106 municipalities, all in rural. Councils that have been taking years, decades bearing environmental costs without seeing the advantages, because they're still losing population, losing jobs, losing services and quality of life. Town Councils with wind farms do not receive 5% of the profits and owners nor do they receive 2%. They lose the Welsh and the Welsh and win the electric lobbies. And you know why, Mr. Feijóo? Because the referee is bought, and that arbitrator is you. [[Applause]] And it's time to rectify and that's all we need is fair rules, pull out the electric lobby from the board of Galician Union and bet on a new wind model, thought from and to Galicia, right in social and environmental terms. That's what most of us want, and that's what we've proposed since BNG. A new wind model respectful of the rural environment and the people of the rural environment, respectful of the environment, with public participation in the benefits, a wind model linked to industrial projects that generate wealth and employment and undermine the bill of light. And that's why, Mr. Feijóo, today we asked you what you're going to do to end Galician wind police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the last control session, Your Honor, we warned you that you literally copied the speeches of your spokespersons, it is true that, as you were already a Member, you took notes of what the others said. Now copy again a picture that they took here from time to time. What you don't want to believe is that it turns out that this power company that came as a citizen to take possession of a democratic president... [[Laughter]] Don't I know what to laugh about, gentlemen? I understand that it bothers them to remember that in the 2009 wind competition that company took 1 megawatt, 1 megawatt. Can you believe a higher independence? 1 megawatt. We have no friends or enemies, Your Honor. We represent the Greeks and the Greeks, nothing more. And those are our commitments, and we have no other. Speaking of polio, look, Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, the only policy is what the Galego Nationalist Block, which wants us to policate Galicia's hopes of being a prosperous country. A prosperous country in automotive, a prosperous country in mining, a prosperous country in fishing, a prosperous country in energy sectors. You're going against all the projects in the country, from that freeway in the Atlantic until now they don't change. Colonialism, polio, polio, you leave the country at ease, that we are older, and we don't need the guardianship of a race nationalism, Your Honor. [[Applause]] The exclusive ideology of Greek nationalism is more important than Galicia, and for us there is nothing more important than Galicia. What's your model, Mrs. Pontón? You were here managing the Industry Council. What was your model? Remember? Look at what the Environment Council said about its wind competition: doubts about legal security in the proceedings. He didn't say it to the opposition, he said it to half the government that he saw as the model of the BNG was just a spolian. Your ladyship, your wind competition has been questioned by everyone. First of all, for the Advisory Council. An Advisory Council which presents 8 objections to the decree on the wind competition. And I read textually: It's not in accordance with the legal order because of the legal marks collected in consideration 7a. The Advisory Council tells the BNG and the Government that the wind competition is illegal. The government is exactly the same. He was questioned by the president of the Union by the members of the Socialist Party's Government. A serious risk to face millionaire compensation, 55 resources with heritage responsibility against that resource. And, of course, there is no guarantee in the Industrial Plan. Look, Your Honor, why did you give a broken company like Alfageme not only your property that harmed the Greeks for an amount of 32 million euros, but one of the main adjudicators of an wind competition in a broken company? Is this the model they're proposing to us, Your Honor? Is this what we need to learn? After the Nationalist Polio...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u50	...from the Greek wind will understand that this is not the model. The model is to comply with the law, the model is to apply environmental impact declarations rigorously, the model is to modify parks when they need to be modified and denied when they need to be denied. The model is to tell the central government not to parks that push without authorization and without the visa and pleasure of the Government of Galicia. The wind model of the Galician People's Party is the model of the law, it is the model of rigor, it is the model of environmental protection. And that's why, Your Honor, we have no way of believing that in 77% of the Greek territory, wind farms cannot be made, first question. And second, look, we've reported negatively 35 projects of wind farms authorized by the Central Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u52	The answer is: if it's legal, yes, if it's not legal, no, it falls down, Mrs. Pontón, even nationalistic proposals. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u54	Mr. Feijóo, I don't know why this subject makes you so nervous, the truth is that when there are no arguments, you have to come here... yes, making this nonsense remix. [[Murmurs.]] It's true that he's the king of escapism, but today he's carrying the palm. And I don't know if it's the best day for you to talk about environmental advisors looking at Beatriz Mato, repositioned with the rotation doors in Greenalia, a company that has authorized wind farms in this country as advisor. [[Applause]] The truth is, every time I hear it, the truth is, I don't know if the president of the board talks or talks about a trader from Endesa, Iberdrola or Greenalia, I have to tell you, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] And, look, of course we have to talk about model, and in this country there are two very different models. This is the model of the People's Party, which we've been enduring for decades, which is a model at the service of the electricians, and which is the heap of words to comply with the law. They change the laws according to the electrics and now they say it's the law that compels them to give these parks. It is that, Mr. Feijóo, is corruption in B, corruption in B of the People's Party, it is not only the headquarters of Genoa, it is also the corruption in A which is in the DOG in laws made according to electricity. [[Applause]] That, Mr. Feijóo, is the portrait of your Government. And, look, you come here to the usual, cheating with the bipartite, I suppose now in the counterreply, I don't know, you'll say that the fault of all the evils in this country is that of the BNG, we go up to the light, we destroy everything. That I suppose that's the argument he brought forward in his last intervention, in which we no longer have the right to reply. But of course there's a model difference. And the BNG set up a model in this country, and it has a model for the future, and that model is that we can't install parks on the Natura Network, so when we had responsibilities we paralyze 35 parks that were projected on the Natura Network. And for that reason, Mr. Feijóo, you've spent 12 years with the expansion of the frozen Nature Network, because the electric lobby claims it and you obey. [[Applause]] That's absolutely clear. [[Applause]] But it is more, the model that we defend for voluntary public participation; it bets, Mr Feijóo, why we have to link wind farms with industrial projects that generate jobs and wealth. Because so far what we're seeing is that wind energy is a round business for these multinationals. By the way, if there are public companies in Norway and Italy exploiting natural resources in our country, while here what we see is how rural areas are depopulated and we don't use energy as a good to develop our country. [[Applause]] Of course in the Nationalist Block we have very clear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u56	...you have to bet for using wind energy to develop Galicia. Unfortunately, what we see is the People's Party in its policy of always, using wind energy for a ballatzo for its friends. I suppose the rotating doors explain all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, history unfortunately believes what is the legitimacy of everyone to talk about wind issues. Look, when half the two-party government warned that what the nationalists were doing with wind was a great shock; when the president of the board himself had to find out by reading the website of the Wind Adjudication Industry Council, and I don't say so, said the nationalist vice president at that time; when the environmental officer, who from then on had not legislate for four years, had to warn himself at the recruitment table and get up from the recruitment table to say it was a real shock; when it turns out that they give him Alageme, a broken company, dozens of megawats without having any kind of muscle to build a single mill, he comes here to lecture urbi etorbi. But, Mrs. Pontón, "we don't authorize parks on Nature Network," huh? Your Honor, six parks on the Natura Network authorized by the BNG. In Abadín and Alfoz, 21 megawatts; in Viveiro, The Valadouro, Thursday, Brain, The Road, Silveda, Antas de Ulla, Agolada, Rodeiro, Mondoñedo, Viveiro, The Valadouro and Jupiter, and it turns out that these are not authorized wind farms on the Natura Network? Your Honor, the Government that prohibits wind farms on the Natura Network is what sits on these seats, Your Honor. That's what's sitting in these seats. [[Applause]] Come here talking about renewable energies and then build a mess every time there's a proposal, every time there's a project. Look, they're gonna be messing up before the project is even admitted to processing, they're gonna be messing up on projects that are already denied, and they're gonna be doing platforms because that's what you logically do since they've been set up as a group of political groups or parties together. Look, the windmill gives 7,000 jobs in the country, and it provides GDP with over 540 million euros. In taxes you pay EUR 130 million a year, and you develop a very powerful auxiliary sector; among other things, ask you about the 700 families of Navantia in Ferrol. But, look, let's stop talking, because this is for you about nationalist speeches and bullying and insults and plots, that's a good thing for you. But the truth is, they don't scare us, neither us nor most of the Greek people. We're talking about data: Mrs. Pontón, how many taxes did you collect by the wind farms in the country? Zero. How much tax has this Government charged since he came to take possession? 251 million euros, 23 million euros a year from the wind canon. In these times that we have taken from the Government to those electricians that you say we have paid 251 million euros, we have been denounced by sea, land and air, in disputes, in the higher courts and in the Supreme Court, and we have won. And right now, anyone who wants to put a wind farm in the country pays taxes with this government and with you no taxes. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, how many parks has BNG authorized on Nature Network? 6, this government 0. How many files have you opened the BNG in four years to the electricians? 9. How many files have we opened? More than 3,000. How many homes have had help for the payment... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u60	...of the electric price while ruling the BNG? Zero. How many of us have helped us? 25,000. Mrs. Pontón, I'm not saying that you are now to make an amendment to the whole of what the nationalists did when they were in the government on wind issues. But, look, honestly, you're ruthless against the electrics, that's right, on Twitter; we're not, sir; we charge taxes, we open files and we help people who have difficulties in the electricity tariff. And that's why, Your Honor, they had a lot more privileges with you than with us. With us the only privileges that exist are that of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u61	Thank you. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Paloma Castro Rey and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council in Galicia concerning the development of marine waste collection, recovery and recycling programmes An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of Mrs Rosana Pérez Fernández, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this non-law:Additional amendmentAdd two new points in the resolution that would become 4 and 5, with the following text: "4. Develop and implement a Plan to Eliminate Contaminate Contaminate, Agricultural, Urban and Industrial Vegetables, in the rivers of Greece, to protect the most delicate and richest areas of the rivers, financing it with own funds and with Next Generation Funds.5. Develop and implement a plan for the construction of separate sanitation networks in the towns and cities of the coastal region, improvement of EDARs with technical deficiencies and construction of new EDARs, financing it with own funds and with next generation funds."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u62	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Today we bring here an initiative by agreeing, and we intend to make it coincide, at the end of the day the agenda put it one day later, with World Ocean Day. World Ocean Day was declared in 2009 by the United Nations General Assembly on 8 June. This year the motto was "Ocean, life and means of subsistence." This theme chosen this year, if we analyze its content, the meaning of this sentence is much more or much more important in our territory, because we are the Greeks and the Greeks, for us the sea is essential. And it's essential both economically and culturally, because it's part of our identity, our essence and our natural heritage. It is currently estimated that more than 150 million tons of plastic accumulate in the world's oceans, while each year they add to these amounts between 4.6 and 12.7 million tons. According to recent studies, the annual flow of plastic debris in the ocean could almost triple to 2040, to 29 million metric tons per year. This is the equivalent of 50 kilos of plastic for every meter of coastline around the world, some amounts that sound scary. In Galicia we have 1,500 kilometers of coastline, which would mean 75 million pounds of plastics on our backs. This would be an environmental disaster, it is an environmental disaster not only regarding the serious threat to the health of our sea, but also what is going to happen at economic level, it will entail economic damage, loss of our coastal communities, our tourism, maritime transport or fishing. That is why we are proposing this initiative, because we understand that a global plan of action is necessary and urgent because the issue is serious and time is running out. On 25 March 2021 the European Union Parliament adopted a report by the Environment Committee calling for urgent measures in the Member States of the European Union to reduce marine waste. In this respect, it recommends that the Member States, as well as the regions that integrate them, implement their own plans and frameworks of action, in addition to collaboration or participation in European projects. In Galicia, a plan called the Clean Sea Plan has been developed a few years ago, which is marked within the European Maritime Fisheries Fund. This plan had a period of vigency between 2016 and 2020 and had as its objective to achieve a significant reduction in the marine waste on the Greek coasts by 2020; that's really what appears on the paper, but what was really only about individual and timely actions, and today, as early as 2021, we don't know and we don't know any evaluation that gives us an empirical sample of the degree of fulfilment of those objectives. My intention is not to criticise the concrete measures that have been carried out under this plan, which we understand are measures, in addition to those carried out by fishing or seafood confrereries, which I congratulate on because it is very important and we understand necessary and essential that people in the sector engage in this struggle. But what we criticize is the part that corresponds to the Government of the Union. Because we understand that the intention of this plan was a plan to save the furniture, and I mean that it is a plan to say yes, we have a plan and cannot be found that there is no initiative or environmental action in relation to the collection of waste from our backs. But it's a little ambitious plan, with a very limited performance and which, as I said, can be said, is short in relation to the dimension of the problem. From the PSdeG we believe that a new plan is needed, it is necessary to promote a new plan, a more global plan that reaches the whole of the Galician coast, because individual actions in specific areas, as I said earlier, do not serve to achieve the solution that affects our entire coast. That's why we're asking for a more ambitious plan, which has a special fund, a special game to clean the seas. We call for a concrete budgetary start to finance measures such as waste collection programmes at sea, which continue to involve the sea sector in this fight, we believe that it is very important, and, of course, of economic benefits, but reaching our entire cost with control and coordination by the Administration. We understand that it is necessary to install appropriate waste storage structures on board; to finance waste treatment costs, such as staff necessary for the operation of these programmes in order to avoid an increase in costs for these fishermen or seafarers or seafarers who participate in them on a voluntary basis. We also understand that investments in ports must be carried out, so that appropriate reception and storage facilities can be offered for lost fishing gear and sea debris collected. And without forgetting what we think is essential, which is awareness, awareness of our citizenship. Because I think this sensitization creates a change in behavior, especially among younger people; sensitization has to be an integral part, for us, of any significant strategy. It is necessary to reflect on the citizenship that prevention is the only long-term solution to pollution and that the contribution of all, according to each one's competences and abilities, is necessary. This challenge is complicated, it's not easy, but it's possible; years ago we couldn't imagine a coffee shop free of tobacco smoke, and today no one is going to light a drink in a public place and less closed. That's why we have to be aware, we have to raise awareness among ourselves because, now, I was talking about smoke, because a few days ago, a report came out of an international agency that established that the beaches are at the head where the cabyches on the beaches of the pebbles are within the top ten elements worldwide, and that one single caby takes 12 years to degrade and contains about 4,000 chemical substances. They also kept that for every cabbage that ended in the oceans, for each one of them they contaminated 500 liters of water. For things like this, it's why we have to focus on sensitization. And on the other hand, I believe that in addition to raising awareness, prevention is also crucial. We understand that it is important to do, after taking these programmes, these marine waste collection measures, and I think it is necessary and very important to make an annual assessment of the waste that is collected, because the collection of these data could be very effective in combating marine pollution. A transparent management in addition to this data, even if it can be contrasted with other data from the nearest territories, can be very effective in developing the prevention and awareness-raising actions that I was talking about earlier, as well as in strengthening and guiding waste collection campaigns. I think we have no more time to waste, the Greeks and the Greeks historically we realize our commitment to the environment, we set a clear example when it was the Prestige disaster, when we all went out in crowds cleaning our backs, and therefore I hope the support of the rest of the groups, because, although much remains to be done on this land, time passes and the consequences, as I have already done in my intervention, will be disastrous to all. Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u64	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you very much, good morning to all and to all. The truth is, after listening to the president of the Union, it seems that we had to have some noise to talk about these environmental issues because he had given the impression that in this country our great work by Mr Feijóo and his Government were all environmental problems solved. You have to listen here to a president of the Union who has been ruling twelve years bragging, bragging with all the letters, of the very many taxes that pay the electricity in our country, when it turns out that income from the wind canon itself is 0.5% about what the electrics get, it's really to laugh if it wasn't really worth it, if it wasn't really to cry. [[Applause]] And well, when we came into the sea, we also heard today Mr. President of the Galician Union nothing more and nothing less than saying that they were about to be completely healed -- because this word of integrally now in this new modernity is worth everything -- Arousa's laugh, and that Vigo's laugh is already completely healed. Anyway. We must have the courage to come and say this in front of the people of Greece and in front of the fishing and seafood sector of the Arousa River and the Vigo River, which is that they have no problems precisely because of the lack of debugging or the problems of debugging in the big towns and coastal cities. It must be worth a lot! Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Castro, indeed yesterday we celebrated or celebrated World Ocean Day, a day that was established at its time in 2008 by the United Nations Assembly itself, and that this year 2021 has a theme, it has a very clear motto, which is "The Living and Medium-Sustaining Ocean." And this just seems like a motto isn't because really the seas, the oceans, occupy more than three quarters of this planet's space and are actually a source of life for millions of people on our planet. In particular, in our country we have not only an economic importance, but that the sea is intrinsic to our own idiosyncrasy and, of course, is not being by the action of the protected Greek Government as it should be. Despite the importance of oceans and seas, the impact of human beings on them is being brutal, as you have said, Mrs. Castro. And the Galician Union, like the Spanish State itself, comes back late in the application of measures to reduce the presence of marine waste on our coast; and the resources that governments generally devote to this task, although they grow progressively, remain far from what would be necessary and from what is desirable. In fact, the programmes currently under way -- I'm speaking in Galicia, of course -- are funded by GEF funds, by European funds, and amount to only 1.5 million euros in three years. There are insufficient amounts, from our point of view, to try to solve these problems that we have, but yet the fundamental problem for us is not so much the amount, but the key is in the distribution of those games and also in the continuity of the actions. As far as distribution is concerned, we could discuss the objectives and effectiveness of active fishing measures, because at the moment there are few people who think that getting seafarers to collect and fish marine garbage instead of fishing fish and seafood, because at the end, when a large part of this waste comes from other activities other than fishing, it is not the objective that should be the priority. That is why the importance of training and awareness of the sector itself, but of citizenship in general, on this issue, with concrete measures that should be taken and which have already begun to be taken to implement in the exploitation plans themselves. These awareness measures, of course, must be transversal, should cover other collectives and other areas of society as well. Finally, the measures, as I said before, these measures that are currently being implemented by the Galician Union, require more budgeting, that they are effectively complemented by their own resources, but also require continuity in time, and they need above all to maintain or create, because we do think that there are currently no synergies and coordination with other policies, for example with the management of solid urban wastes, with the management of debuggers, etc. And also, as I said before, with other collectives. The board's orders now include two possibilities. First, that of the passive cleaning, referred to the garbage that can be found in the daily work, in the normal work of the sector, and which contemplates the payment of the containers for the collection of waste, and that of the active cleaning in which a specific waste is removed and which contemplates the payment to the seams; by course, according to the same calculation per day of work that was done for the aid for the compensations per stop by Covid, that is, absolutely ridiculous from our point of view. Finally, in this case, in the case of active cleaning, it's the confrereries themselves, their technical assistance, those that have to carry out the project and control the work from the hiring of containers to the control of their withdrawal. Also the classification of the heavy waste, and also the bureaucratic part, that all of this is equipped. That is, it means a significant increase in work for the technical assistance of the confrereries without this receiving any compensation in return. And indeed, we have not until now, as long as we have several seasons, let's say, fishing and seafood, or for several years with these programmes, we have no evaluation of them, the evaluation of their operation. And, of course, this is an ejaculation, it's a big ejaculation because, to find out how it works, we should start studying and evaluating it to have the data and correct what's needed. In any case, Mrs Castro, the BNG has tabled an amendment to its initiative because, as we have just said, we understand that marine pollution is not unique and exclusively from the sea itself or from the sea sector itself, but rather comes from a much more important quantity, it comes from the activities being carried out on land. And for us there would be no valid programs to start attacking the marine waste problem if they didn't complement them with programs on the ground. Of course, these programs would obviously be very quantitative, they would affect a lot, not to mention all the coastal localities of this country, but we believe they are hyper-necessary so that there is some effectiveness in the measures being taken. On the one hand, we believe that we need to put in place a plan for the elimination of polluting greens, from the farmers to the urban and industrial ones in the rivers of Greece, which are largely those which subsequently pollute rivers and the sea in general of our coasts, and which should be financed from their own funds, and also from the European funds, the Next Generation funds, to put in place actions, which really in many cases are infrastructure or infrastructure repair and are expensive. And finally, we also propose adding another point where we talk about developing and implementing a plan to build separate sanitation networks in the towns and cities of shore, to improve EDARs with technical deficiencies and to build new EDARs. And here we're doing a lot of fincapé -- it's not absolutely explicit here, but I'm saying right now -- yes we're doing a lot of fincapé that we have to take advantage of the money from the Next Generation funds to really apply it to basic deficiencies that exist in the vast majority of our councils about separate networks, about their own sanitation, and about the deficiencies and in many cases the absence of debuggers. Of course, while all these programs that are now very fashionable and are taking a lot of pictures in the press, aren't they? collected from marine garbage, which is not exactly marine, because we believe that parallelly we have to implement all of this with far more quiet measures, much more cost and that would ultimately have an impact on the progressive cleaning of our rivers and our seas. In that sense, Mrs Castro, if you accept our amendment, we fully agree with your initiative and vote in favour. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u66	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the next day of the World Oceans Day, this initiative, Mrs. Castro, has come close, but, look, the conscious Greek Government is very active with the marine waste problem as well. When I really read your initiative, what I wasn't so sure about is whether you were aware of what I was saying in your original proposal, because it urges the Galician Board to do something that I was already doing in the matter of marine waste, and at least it's surprising. But I'm still surprised when you present this self-amendment of whitening of your initiative, whenever you were much shorter than the German Government is doing. And I'm still surprised that your self-amendment is still short. But don't worry, I'll explain to you what the work the Galician Union is doing on this issue. You quoted Greenpeace on your initiative, but last March the European Parliament -- which also referred to in that Report on the Impact of Marine Waste on Fisheries -- is a document that qualifies these waste as one of the main environmental and social challenges in the restoration of the marine ecosystem, but also as an economic challenge to that impact that marine waste has on fishing. We're talking about between 1 and 5% of the total income from this activity. And this report had a goal, which was to know what waste and what effects it is talking about, because both the solutions and the sources -- as Mrs Pérez said -- are not only at sea, but also at land. And so far, I think we all agree, because this People's Parliamentary Group unanimously joined Parliament's plenary in July 2019 to ask the Galician Council to take action -- including training and awareness -- to reduce the presence of marine waste. That is why also in the Committee on the Environment, which was held in December of that same year, an initiative was adopted with an amendment by the People's Group calling for waste collection programmes with financial incentives for the marine sector, recycling plans and awareness-raising campaigns. And you asked for it, Mrs. Castro, but as you can see, they didn't follow up on the subject because, if not, they wouldn't bring this initiative here today. You were asked by the German Government to get to work on this issue and that's what you did to Junta, to get involved, Mrs. Castro; to get involved but not again because this commitment had already come from an old age. The Sea Council promoted active participation in the prevention, follow-up, reduction of marine waste, training of professionals in the fisheries sector, awareness-raising of society. So, either directly, through Fecmar or Intemar, several programs have been launched, since the issue has different approaches. And not only did you refer to the Clean Sea Program, that's why I told you to stay short. Look, the Observatory of the Sea, funded by the Biodiversity Foundation, to analyze the recycling potential of the main inorganic waste generated around the harbour. Nothing on the edge, the first experience ten years ago in collaboration with the fishing and port sector for the collection and characterization of waste. Pescal, Mrs. Castro, with regard to the passive collection and active with special attention to the abandoned and lost nets you referred to. Project 3R-Fish, funded by the European LIFE Project, to study the recovery management of the rest of networks, polyethylene, batteries... And I can go on. Project ML-Style, funded by Index, with the participation of the port authorities of Vigo and Marín, ten confrries of the rivers of Vigo and Pontevedra, and the fresh fishing producers of the port and the river of Marín. With four fundamental objectives, that ships bring to port all the garbage they collect passively; to install together with Galician ports, containers for these wastes; to analyze the garbage to know its nature and origin; and to study the reuse of polyethylene networks and remnants as textile raw material. And I still do, because there are two programmes with European recognition, ladies and gentlemen: the Clean Atlantic Project, funded by the Interreg Programme, based in Vigo and involving 19 partners from Ireland, France, Spain and Portugal. And for what? For the prevention, follow-up, reduction and awareness of marine waste. And the Clean Sea Programme -- which you referred to -- in this programme, the Sea Council published in February 2020 an order of aid with six projects; three of Cedeira, Girl and Vigo seafooders, who went out exclusively to remove waste (39 tons in 2020). And two of these projects that will end this year, focusing mainly on the protection and recovery of biodiversity and especially on fishing and seafood activities. In addition, all these projects of this order of aid included actions of environmental awareness and environmental training. In 2021, within the framework of the Clean Plan, a new aid order was called again on 3 February, with an amount close to EUR million; 9 projects, Mrs Castro, 8 of active waste collection. This is a sample of the degree of involvement of the sector in the protection and recovery of the marine ecosystem. And I still want to make one more point, which I can probably send you a message about Mr. Sánchez's Government: the shellfish management plans approved in the Maritime Exploitation Plan 2021-2023 include an ecological objective. What is it? The collection of the marine trash. Thus, more than 60% of these plans envisage the removal of waste. I insist, those same plans that Mr. Sánchez's Government intends to fall. But I haven't finished yet, ladies and gentlemen, so far here the Councillory of the Sea, but it also has to say the Environmental Councillory. And now, for example, with Project Upcycling the Oceans, driven in 2018 to collaborate with the fisheries sector, a circular economy project that demonstrates that marine waste can have a new life. But we continue, the "Bye, Bye, Plastic" campaign of September 2020 -- last year -- in coordination with the Council of the Sea and starred -- when you were referring to the younger -- children and girls to visualize the excessive consumption of plastic and its arrival at sea. The Free Project, created by SEO/BirdLife together with Ecoembes, mobilizes citizenship to end garbage. He then collaborated with the Environmental Council in another 38 waste collection actions on rivers and beaches. He recently participated in a large gathering in March 2021. Next June 12th, "A square meter by nature." And it has other training and awareness-raising actions in its portfolio; for example, incorporate the reduction of marine waste into the 2010-2020 Urban Waste General Plan as a strategic objective; or in the Waste and Contaminated Soil Act, where it is referred to as a ban on the marketing of plastic with a huge presence in marine waste. Also the Welsh Strategy of circular economy 2020-2030, which expressly cites this collection and integrated management of marine waste and its use of materials. But one more point: last June 3 -- a few days ago -- the Environmental and Sea Council signed an agreement to promote the activity of the Galician Coast Observatory, which will play a key role in preventive actions. I assure you, Mrs. Castro, I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, it has not been easy to summarize all the programs and actions put in place -- not just the clean Sea, Mrs. Castro -- by the Galician Council to fight marine waste. What's still to be done? Of course I do. How sure is Galicia not going to stop doing it? Of course. What do we agree that this is a great challenge for public administrations and society? That's absolutely clear! And above all also the gratitude that this group wants to send to the sector for its collaboration. And what are we going to do with your proposal, Mrs. Castro? So at first we're going to vote in favour, and I'm going to explain it. How are we not going to vote in favour of the development of waste collection and recovery programmes at sea with incentives to the sector if the German Government is already doing so? How are we not going to support or vote in favour of information and awareness-raising campaigns? I only invite you to meet the "Bye, Bye, Plastic," not only the Clean Sea, Mrs. Castro. And how are we not going to vote in favour of a specific recycling plan if all waste extracted and processed is treated by an authorised manager or the usual waste recovery and treatment system? And, look, many of the incentives to the sector can fall if Mr. Sánchez's government drops the shellfish plans. Then the ones we are going to ask and ask for responsibilities are going to be this group, the People's Parliamentary Group. And how are we not going to vote in favour of the fourth point of your self-amendment if we don't stop talking, or did I stop talking about these minutes of prevention, classification, accounting of waste? Works that can well be seen to be done with a simple search in the media. And here they brought only a few, just so they could see that they existed. And I'm just going to mention, Mrs Castro, the amendment of addition made by the Nationalist Group to add these two points. To quote that the Galician Union -- as the president has said -- has invested more than 1,100 million euros, it hardly weighs you, Mrs Pérez, in hydraulic works and especially in the sanitation of rivers, resulting from 2009 to the present a substantial improvement in the quality of water, and above all in 32 areas of production of bivalve molluscs. And to clarify your last point, if you don't remember, that the skills of supply, sanitation and purification are the competence of the municipalities, and one thing is to collaborate and another very different thing is to assume it. And also, at the last point of its addition amendment, they are far less ambitious about the fate of European funds in this area than the Union has planned until 2030. So, Mrs. Castro, this group's position is in favour of its initiative with its self-amendment and in no case the addition points of the Nationalist Group. If they are accepted by the group, we would ask for a point vote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u68	Thank you, President. Mrs. Díaz, I don't know how to start telling you... it seems that from your speech and from Mr. Feijóo's speech, it seems that in Galicia we live in an oasis in the middle of the desert. We're talking about a global problem, the worst problem facing our planet, which is climate change, but in Galicia we're close to it. We're in a bubble, we're not going to suffer because we have an environmental policy that makes a sustainable territory, the difference from the rest of the world. That's what happens. And you were talking about programs, a lot of plans and a lot of programs, but you forgot to say that all these programs aren't with your own funds, they're programs with private funds or some participation in programs with European funds. But they're not programmes with own funds, except for small, timely grants to certain specific and timely activities. So, I was asking you to follow up on the recommendation you made in the report we referred to earlier on 25 March of the European Parliament. This report calls on the Member States and their regions to be involved, and it calls for, in addition to participating in programmes with private initiatives or participating in European fund programmes, to take action with their own funds and carry out their own programmes to intensify this fight against marine waste because we are facing a serious problem. But, well -- I say again -- both your speech and Mr. Feijóo's -- we continue to maintain the same political line of artificial fires of the People's Party. They always follow the same scheme: press rounds with rich presentations, well-documented plans or programs, with graphics, colors, which also collect very ambitious targets; but then, what's left?, the course of time, even the vigil course of these plans or programs. It's all smoke, it's all smoke. [[Applause]] I don't come from green today. I don't come from green or from blue, but I can tell you -- and from brown and black -- that this government's commitment to the environment is a pure posture. It's been forever and it's still a pure posture, and I'm going to give you several examples. I don't think we can deny -- as the Galego Nationalist Bloc said -- that much of the problem with these marine disasters is the result of mismanagement of waste on earth. And we have a Waste Law that we approved this year in 2021, but this Waste Law was drafted in 2018 three years ago, which might not be very scandalous in dealing with another matter, but it is when in 2019 there was a European directive that refused to adapt. Therefore, in the Galician Law they left Galicia behind on waste, as other autonomous communities did not. In addition, a very ambitious European regulation which imposes new requirements on the management of the use of plastic products. [[Applause]] And besides it marks a clear strategy to advance towards the plastic sector, a more circular sector, and to fight mainly against marine pollution derived from these plastics. We don't understand and we still don't understand how they could leave out of this regulation the matter of the plastics we're asking for in our amendments to the law. And like in Galicia, it's a place where we have great marine wealth and where the sea is part of our essence and our culture and our natural heritage. And I can give you more examples of this posture, I can tell you that they also left out this Waste Law, and taking into account the reality in which we face Covid-19, any kind of regulation in this sense. Especially in view of the new waves of marine pollution due to the mismanagement of Covid-derived waste, desposable waste, and I refer to surgical masks or gloves. And I can continue to speak and share what Mrs BNG said about the need to fight on land, because most of the waste comes from the land, from the waste of the sea, and I can tell you about waste water, from the mismanagement, of the fines of the European Union's Court of Justice in 2018 for the misuse of waste water; I can talk about the 11 points of zone C for marine areas on our Greek coast; and I can tell you about the first warning, which was in 2014, after seven years we have no comprehensive law on river regeneration, no comprehensive plan. I can tell you about the Galician Natural Heritage Act of 2019, which does not take into account marine ecosystems as protected natural spaces; or the Ence's report on the mercury that Elnosa was dumping, which was growing progressively and that they hid in a drawer and that they did nothing for months until it went out in the press. Or I can tell you about the Welsh strategy of climate change, which is also all smoke, we still don't know the degree of compliance with those lines of action. Or can I tell you about the Next Generation projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u70	How important is the environment if not even the environmental advisor was on that committee of experts who will regulate the next generation funds? [[Applause]] I believe that we must continue to focus on the importance of the environment, on the importance of the environment in these projects, because it will be a great opportunity to generate jobs. The situation is critical and I think Galicia has to get on the line of Europe, on the line of the rest of the autonomous communities. The existing environmental situation requires it, time is running out, we can't afford more makeup or facial washing and we need a more global plan with economic resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. About the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u72	We will accept the amendment of the BNG and we will also accept the vote by points and thank you for the position in favour of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u73	Thank you. After we have finished the debates on non-law proposals, we proceed to the vote on them. Voting of non-legislative proposals We started by voting on that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, initiative by Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the start by the Government of Greece in the last quarter of 2020 of the debate for the update of the local Pact of Galicia within the Galician Commission of Local Corporation. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and to the People's Parliamentary Group are accepted as an addition. We vote. Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't accept. Well, then it's voided by the acceptance of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We vote. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the start by the Government of Galicia, in the last quarter of 2020, of the debate for the updating of the local Pact of Galicia within the Galician Commission for Local Cooperation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego's non-legislative proposal, on the initiative of Mrs Nora Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the demand by the German Government for the central government for the reduction of 4% of VAT on electricity The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego's non-legislative proposal, on the initiative of Ms Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to improve the working and salary conditions of Sergas staff The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We are now voting for the People's Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Marta Novoa. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block are not accepted. Vote of the motion for a non-law of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Marta Nóvoa Iglesias and six other Members, on the request of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for attention to the allegations submitted by the Council of Galicia regarding the draft order establishing the prices of the charges of the electrical system and of the capacity payments resulting from application from 1 June 2021 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Borja Verea's initiative. Vote of the motion for a non-law of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Borja Verea Fraiz and six other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the design and official presentation of the national tourism plan Xacobeo 2021-2022 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paloma Castro Rey's initiative. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the point-by-point vote is accepted. Vote of points 1 to 4 of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Socialist Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Paloma Castro Rey and three other Members, on the action to be taken by the Council in Galicia on the development of programmes for the collection, recovery and recycling of marine waste The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. These four points were therefore adopted. We now vote on the rest of the points of the non-law proposition. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Ms Paloma Castro Rey and three other Members, on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia on the development of marine waste collection, recovery and recycling programmes, with the exception of points 1 to 4, which have already been voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u74	They have finished the voting and we will continue on the agenda, in this case we move to the point of inquiry. [[Pause.]] Julio, maybe you'll go now. Julio, I think it's up to you now. Yes. Yes, because we substance... there's a change in order... we have a change in the agenda, we're going to commit first... -- I think it's already more or less if I talked to the groups --...we're going to commit... Well, I think they communicated to me, if we didn't talk, I was just communicating with them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're waiting for an adaptation, I was told they might be talking to you. I don't know. Now we would substance a change in the agenda and I would tell you later how this goes, but first of all it would be Mr. Torrado's appeal to the Health Counsellor, then we would substantiation to the questions of the Government and we would value the last interpelerations if we could substance them or not. This is the agenda and the change I propose. [[The second Vice-President pronounces words which are not perceived.]] Well, it seems, they're commenting on me -- I, of course, that's the way --...the staff of the group that's notified. Group staff. I can't verify this, I don't know. I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why there's no inconvenience, if it takes five minutes now before you subsituate the interpellation, there's no problem. Mr. Torrado, do you want... do you need five minutes? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then we put the question into practice. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, by G. P. Socialist of Galicia, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the management of human resources in the Galego Health Service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u75	Hey! [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, don't be so clever... [...] I'll warn you as I'm having news, it's enough. And, therefore, I appreciate this collaboration, it's such unexpected things that happen and we're trying to adapt the order of the day. I'm asking for an effort on this, I don't think it's such a complicated matter. Communication may not have circulated properly as it should have circulated, but it's things that are surprising at a given time and we're not exempt from this being able to happen at any time. Then, therefore, what I ask is a bit of collaboration; in this case it happened so. So, well, you're a member of a lot of board, and I suppose this matter now won't cost you an interpellation; besides, I'm sure you've already brought it into your head perfectly designed. [[Murmurs.]] Then, whenever you want, you can start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. It's very good to do it in a joke tone, but changing the order of Parliament's day has its own questions, and at least I would have liked to know something more than 30 seconds before and not to be listening to any further now some impropriety on the side of the People's Party when I'm doing an interpellation that was planned for within an hour and a half by facilitating the agenda. So at least keep a little respect. At least keep a little respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u77	Excuse me, just a moment. I don't think anyone had made a comment in that negative sense. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u78	Well, you don't believe it, but I know you do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u79	Besides, in any case, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u80	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u81	So, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, we're talking about an issue that's not the first time we've talked about, it's certainly not the second and it won't be the last, and that we're all worried about. It has to do with this interpellation with a structural situation that takes place in the health system, which has been taking place for a long time, but which is also getting worse sometimes when from this government they intend to do some demerit or some attack on professionals by the fact that they claim their work. The last Mr. Feijóo a few days ago, saying that the professionals should forget a little more their working conditions, that they should not be asking for them all day long, that they should focus on other things, which is a contempt to the deep professionals, from our meritorious point of view of an apology. It has to do with a tendency that this Government has, Mr. Feijóo mainly, to attack health professionals when they say, say or support, or protest for some questions that you don't like. You know that when there is a position of health professionals that you like because you have positions, from your point of view, you don't follow political parties, when you have something that Mr. Feijóo likes, he says, let's pay attention to professionals. In the case of the Clinical Committee it's very good because they listen to it, but they announce the decisions two days before. Well, not long ago, speaking a lot about substitution issues in health centers, Mr. Feijóo said it was impossible to make an organization when there were 17% casualties in a health center. It's seen as this debate that 17% in that case was a drop of 6 professionals, a drop of 6 professionals. And the other day he said that the labor claims had to stay a little close. And today we have a debate on working conditions and human resources in Sergas. Why? Because the human resources policy in Sergas is probably the central axis of those issues that we believe are not working in this system. This system works thanks to professionals, fully dependent on their good doing, and despite their leaders, who especially in terms of human resources have a policy that we do not share, which is that of absolute precariousness. Why would we say that? Because we have two problems and the two of us, having some difficulties with being fixed, having some difficulties at the moment we understand that human resources don't appear under the stones, they don't have to do with a decision today that ends tomorrow, they don't have to do with a circumstance that can be solved in any way and without planning, but it's true that some of the deficits can be planned. And I say it has to do with two axes. The first of them is a professional deficit; it's not a numerical deficit because we don't have medical professionals or other existing specialties to be able to hire. A recent OPE in nursing posed in very global terms something like 800 squares and there were 8,000 people presented. There's no shortage of nurses, which is a recruitment deficit. We don't have a general deficit in general terms in doctors and doctors, it can be adjustable in some data, but it doesn't exist. What's the matter? That we may have some problems in terms of specialties, and there's some deficit that the system must be able to correct or should correct. We have a plan, a possibility to plan about the volume of retirements, because today's data lets us know how many people are going to retire today, next year, within two years or in five. And yet in recent years it has been felt that the Government of the Union has been improvising some reaction to human resources, improvising in the sense that decisions have been made, such as the variation of retirement (first rose, then came down, went up again, went down again), that in the end what they have done is to prove that it is advice that is dancing with the decisions depending on the moment. And human resources is a matter that deserves a lot of planning. This council in the last twelve years has lost to convene a huge number of MIR-enabled squares for family and community medicine professionals, 150 calculated, which could be convened and not convened. I mean, it doesn't seem like it was gonna be necessary and they weren't aware they'd need it now. Finally, we have seen a deficit problem in recruitment. There is another problem that is associated with this, which is the working conditions and the precariousness of professionals who are already or those who are entering the system or with access possibilities. Why? Because the working conditions we offer in Galicia are probably the worst in the state. And this also has to do with the deficit of professionals, because where we have professional deficits, there are other autonomous communities, other countries, which also have their deficits but less, to a far lesser extent. What's wrong with that? That in the end -- I give you the fact that I think we've already shared many times -- when a professional finishes his training, his MIR training in Galicia, five years after that data, five years later, in Galicia, they deal roughly in a stable way between 15 and 20 %, at most 20% depending on the specialty. There are 80 percent of professional graduates trained in Galicia, specialists with enormous training quality, as we have in this country, recognized worldwide, who are not hired in a stable way in Sergas. Why? Because at the end of other countries, where other autonomous communities are offering continuity contracts at two or three years, here we offer them to one at a time. Because in other countries, in other autonomous communities where they offer more stable and more geographically focused contracts, we offer them here without knowing where they're going to work, without knowing where they're going to have to work the next day, and probably in many cases, without knowing whether the next day they're going to have to work or not, what makes it difficult for them to reconcile normal life that, at the end, when a person is 28, 29 years old, 30 years old, one can pretend to assume them for the will to be on your land, with your people, but it's also true that, when you want to put things in the long term, either father or mother, or form a family, or stabilize yourself, or have some vital ambitions, obviously legitimate, nobody can do it within the system of Sergas because the structural planning of Sergas's human resources is the worst ETT in Galicia. And, therefore, we are faced with a situation that makes it very difficult, in addition to our ability to be a resolution system beyond what we are. The problem is, we could be much better, and we're not because we tend to be scars in human resources policy. And from there comes what we thought about what Mr. Feijóo said, who said that professionals should abandon their claim on labour issues, or not have them so present. Labour conditions determine the quality of our system, you're conscious. You are aware many times that I disagreed with Mr. Feijó many times and then they have to call him in order and you end up taking over the dominant position. But we know that, with the possibility of convincing him, we might as well be able to convince him to transfer him to Mr. Feijóo that he does not say those barbarians. Why? Because although the prevailing conditions, the working conditions are dominant with respect to the quality of care, because it's not the same quality of care as a nurse has to work today in emergencies, tomorrow in newborns, last morning in an ICU plant and the next day she doesn't know whether to work, because they can't fit her work and they can't be able to take the habits, the automations of the plants themselves in a hospital. Because it's not possible to have a full or absolute guarantee of all health quality when we transfer it, as you move these days, who want to grant eight or ten minutes per patient in primary care, which is commendable, the famous ten minutes that the family doctors ask for. What's the matter? We've been saying this for a long time, I've been telling you in the press lately, many collectives, even today in some media, some professionals, that the problem is not going to give ten minutes per patient, that's fine, the problem is that you can't give ten minutes when professionals still have 50 patients a day, because that's at the end of ten minutes for 50 patients, which is 500 minutes, it's more than eight hours in a row. Which, if you already want to think about making home visits, telephone calls to renew an appointment or to renew a prescription or to do, you do what such a strange job claim thing, a fifteen-minute break; or you make such a strange job claim as going to the bathroom, you can't because then you'd be going far beyond eight hours and probably more than nine hours a day or ten hours a day, that many professionals end up doing by will but that we can't demand it as an obligation, because it's good to appeal to the solidarity and will of professionals and their moral commitment, that they already have, but on the basis of that they don't eat. And we are in favour of saying that professionals should abandon their job demands is not to understand the system or understand that people should be slaves to someone's system or desires. Because that's what conditions as well, conditions that many people have to have on average four or five minutes with their primary professional, and you're probably aware that many people with four or five minutes can't be treated properly; many people with mobility difficulty, older people, who, if they go to primary professional in their health center, take four minutes to remove a garment so they can observe it, and it's impossible. If we put 50 patients a day, which is what they have, there's no way, there's no way to solve the system. And these are labor claims. Because it's not possible to assume -- we told the example recently in a debate -- that, having put about 250 working days a year, there are professionals in this country, who exist today last year, last year, this year, who are signing 270 employment contracts a year, which evidence is that they're working many more days than they should or are making more than one contract a day, and that's not an assumption. It's not assumed that someone ends up signing contracts for years for the same job concaterating contracts when it was obvious a structural necessity and they do it eventually. And it is so obvious that the judges say from their councillor, Mr. Counsellor, from their councillor, that he hires in a tortured and fraudulent manner. I wouldn't like to be told about my management. What we ask him is, do you think that's worthy of that advice? We want to know. The former advisor, with whom we had many debates, said at the time in a very well-known journalistic interview: "That's what there is, we've all been through it." I think it's a brief way of saying that the demands for progress and progress must not go anywhere. Anyway, we want to know if you're from the policy of "what's there" or if you think you're not worthy. If there's an intermediate position, they transmit it, but we think it's not worthy. Finally, let's move that working conditions are precisely the axis that can improve the ability of the best talent and what we have in the system, which is the professional work. And we demand that Sergas' human resources policy put the batteries, stop being a bad ETT, the worst of all in Galicia, and we can defend the best we have in the system, which are the professionals, that right now, and we don't just tell him, standing him constantly, they don't think they're being treated well at work, and so we're reducing our ability to be efficient because they have pretty good working conditions and pretty good jobs for what they deserve. Because at the end of applause you can applaud anyone, but when you manage and get on the table, it makes you feel like you're looking somewhere else and you start applauding somewhere else, but health professionals aren't applauding you. Lots of bitches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u84	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Let me also say my first words today also go to the memory of Isaura Abelaras, with whom I had the opportunity to share some concerns and some specific cases when I was in Vigo's health area and even being in the council. A grip on his family and, of course, on the Socialist Group. Having said this, I will begin to answer this question by thanking, of course, the professionals of the Galician Health Service for their work. Then I think it'll be the only one I'm going to match with you, Mr. Torrado, because the description you made today of Sergas is as if it were the worst place to work in health care. I understand that, of course, I do not share at all practically any of your claims. I think we must continue to recognize the professionals all the work they are doing in this situation, and of course always in the Galician Health Service. And I have to tell you that Sergas is the biggest employer in all of Galicia, with 42,000 middle-aged people hired in May. It's 6,000 more than when I ruled in this autonomous community the Party to which you belong. 1,000 more, for example, in the field of nursing. And I'm saying that because we've been hearing for weeks that what we have to do is hire more staff. Yeah, like I say, 6,000 more people. We reached this figure after the convening of 8,112 squares from the year 2012, from 2008 to 2021 about 4,000 nursing staff professionals, a total of 3,847, were incorporated as Sergas' regular staff. By the year 2021 we increased the staff chapter to 154 million euros, an 8.5 more than last year. We continue with the creation of squares linked on the one hand to the Primary Care Plan, 161 new parasites in the budget of this year 2021; 15 squares in the Home Hospitalization Plan; or 120 squares in the Mental Health Plan. A total of 296 people who join stable jobs this year. They're not promises that don't run, as you'll probably say, but they're squares, as I say, stable this same year. In addition, we increased the number of staff in training to 125. I suppose you won't know, Mr. Torrado, but the teaching ability of primary care centers we've always tried to exhaust it at the top, it was this year's first year we got it, because as you suppose you know and, if you don't, I tell you, it depends primarily on teaching and accreditation units and tutors. At the moment that we could and had the tutors' visas to increase these squares, we went to the top of the ones we have believed right now. All of this, which I'm commenting on, is an investment only in the year 2021 of 11.9 million euros in structural expenditure. Even so, in May, the payroll of 13,480 professionals of Sergas was dropped the amount corresponding to the recognition of the professional career with the second formalized call in the year of the pandemic. This is an investment of 10 million euros in 2021 and 10 million euros in 2022. The recognition of the race, for example, means that for a two-degree nurse there is an average increase of 14% in her four-year-old payroll. In addition, we have the creation of the Covid Continent Fund, with EUR 115 million, which has allowed us to maintain staff reinforcement contracts and meet the new needs of resources that have imposed the pandemic, including staff hired for the Vaccination Plan. Thanks to the agreement reached with the trade union organizations, in this case the Workers' Commission, CESIC and SATSE, we have launched the Covid-19 Human Resources Continence Plan, with 17 staff averages, and thanks to which we were able to hire sufficient staff during the pandemic, in addition to recognizing the efforts of the professionals who carry out their work in the first line with, for example, 41,000 authorized Covid permits. Only in the month of February, and due to the third wave, we added more than 3,000 professionals engaged in functions related to Covid and vaccination. Under this plan, we created the contract form "Possible Health Emergency Name", which allowed you to offer greater stability in employment -- you speak of stability, because this is a concrete measure of stability --, as I said, allowed greater stability to the staff hired in this case to strengthen the system in front of the pandemic and, although its initial address was planned for six months, 65% of the contracts for "Posssible Health Emergency Appointment" were extended up to one year in order to better meet the demand. Basically today we focus on vaccination in large enclosures this staff, as well as on performing PCR, Covid-auto tests, maintaining Covid circuits in emergencies, ICU, laboratory reinforcements to be able to carry out the pooling system for example, or strengthening in health centers, among other things related to Covid and assignees. I repeat that it's one year contract for the Covid emergency. In addition, it should be noted that from 1 April 2021 199 links have been made as optional specialists to the MIRs who finished the specialty in May 2020, which I remind you have stayed with us all this time. Here, I would like to make a parenthesis, because last week there was debate in this Parliament about an initiative to ensure the transparent choice process for health training squares, to ensure that Galicia did not have vacant squares, and you and the BNG say, by the way, that they went through this initiative. Training in Galicia is essential for these professionals to be able to become part of the health system once they complete their training period and thus improve the provision of human resources especially in health levels where we have significant professional deficits, such as primary care. Finally, the Continence Plan has enabled a large number of professionals to stabilize, improving working conditions, ensuring availability in time of human resources to provide essential response to, in this case, new waves and, even so, allowed the possibility of deploying additional operational resources within a short period of time. At the beginning of 2019, we agreed with the unions, even if you don't like them, the possible appointment of continuity. You said here that it lasted only a year, that they didn't set geographical boundaries. Well, it's wrong, Mr. Torrado, it's up to three years and it's a geographic limit. Well, well, then if you want to give him the details of the contracts that are, the duration and the territory. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, there's a commitment from the health areas that 80% of the continuity contract schedule is known the previous month. If you don't know this, I'll give you the data, but that's it. He said that this contract, designed for family medicine and also nursing staff, allowed or allowed for greater job stability to professionals, faithful available human resources, encourage care continuity in the relationship between professional users and health services, and ensure greater quality of care for the population. This continuity appointment, with a three-year contract -- I insist --, ensures in the case of the optional family, a remuneration above 60,000 euros a year, and more than 3,000 for nursing. If you call this precariousness, well, I suppose you might run another type of contract, of course this is no precariousness for us: 60,000 euros a year and, in this case, connected to 7-hour days and with two guards a month in the case of the optional ones. And contrary to what you always find, they have, as I say, anticipated calendars. There are currently 252 continuity contracts, 115 with the title of square square square at the end of their vigil, which is another characteristic of these contracts. After these three years, if that square is justified, there's a commitment by the Galician Union to turn them into structural squares in that area where they are located. Then I guess you'll explain to me what part you don't understand. With this appointment, he said, staff stability was promoted with links that avoid successive contracts and ensure the finalization of appointments, once three years have passed. Sergas, I repeat, evaluated this creation of structural squares over the last three years if the convenience of these contracts in that particular area is confirmed. In addition to the duration of three years and the good working conditions, these contracts also count on stability, while remaining at the edge of the OPE and the transfer contests during the duration of the contract, which is also important, because -- neither did you logically comment on it -- in Sergas we take care not only of those who enter but of those who are. Sergas has an open and permanent contest through which anyone with a place on property at any health center has an option every year -- each year -- to choose a different place that is vacant and moving. This leads to difficulties, probably first to citizens, also to realization, but above all we think it's a good way for professionals to be where they want to be. Well, I repeat, these continuity contracts are not open, these squares are not open either to the open and permanent competition or to the OPE. But, I repeat, the best way to achieve greater staff stability is to call OPE. So, in this legislation, of which no more than nine months have passed, we have already made two offers: 985 squares of graduates, health technicians and other categories in 2020, which many are summoned and that the exams will begin around the summer; and 1,215 in the 2021 offer, half of which are to stabilize with fixed nursing staff. And we'd like to be able to convene more squares, because the only way to stabilize staff is this. And that's why we've been complaining to the central government -- of their own party, by the way -- that allows us to eliminate the already famous rate of rest, but, far from that, what we're told is that they're going to end temporality. It doesn't seem consistent, I won't let you call any more squares and you can't make temporary contracts either. For the Socialist Party, it seems best not to count on the staff needed to provide optimal health care. We want to be able to offer all the places that require assistance and not just the vacancies generated by retirements. If the State Administration had definitively eliminated the replacement rates in the Galego Health Service, they could offer about 3,000 squares for the stabilization of the Welsh public health professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u86	...would be the best public job offer since 2001, able to retain and attract new professionals, especially those categories that have staff availability. We're still waiting for the Central Government in this case. As for the eventuality, we must take into account the labor rights, Mr. Torrado, of the workers and workers, since it cannot be obvious that an agency with thousands, 42,000 staff professionals, permits, IT situations, conciliation licenses and vacations are generated. Inevitably, eventualities will always be required in a Sergas size service administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u87	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u88	...to be able to cover the absences necessary due to all these labor circumstances that motivate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u89	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor on his replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u90	Thank you, President. I see you owe -- as it's logical because you're busy with other things -- to lose the MIR debate the other day, because I can remind you that you were in favor of the mechanism used for selecting MIR squares. Statements, specialized press, intercommitted, interviews... Please! Please! You can find him. Medical Writing, May 19, for example, with statements from the board. But, finally, we're not gonna lose... If you don't even know what they say one day in the media, it's okay. Recognition of professionals is fine, but what is it basically? Admit the professionals, what is it? Because the paper supports everything, which if eventuality is necessary but is controlled, if stability, if planning... the paper supports everything. Look, the replenishment rate, you've spent 7 years ruling in Madrid, matching a government here, they haven't pronounced that term, they haven't pronounced it! I haven't -- and I've been asking you for three years, uh -- to teach me what that letter is that you tell me that they sent you to the ministry to ask for it, that I want to see it. I've already been able to be told that it existed. Please, with your entry log and these things. Continuity contracts, if the paper supports everything!, the contracts say from one to three years, now, not at first, uh, now they've rectified, when they've seen the way it was, and now they say they have a... geographic. But that's not the reality. Of course we can, we can bring all the people -- they're not so many -- they've taken on a continuity contract and asked them if their contract is one year, two or three. Let's do that statistic. We brought them in. Because they're almost all a year old. You've done between one and three years of continuity contract offer, and we've done here between one and three, because you're going to put them all out of one. No, no, how we're gonna do that! All of them. If they're predictable, for cigarettes. The training squares, but 150 community family medicine squares, recognized by their Government, were not asked at the time. They justified why, we don't agree, they've justified, you don't tell me now that they've reached the top of the possibilities. No, they never came to the top of the possibilities except these two years, which also have the greatest offer of training squares that the state has ever called to you in history, which, by the way, could tell after what we heard here. That's why the paper supports everything, is that we have a good number inside other specialties. I've been listening here a lot of times to tell you that we have a great pediatric system, which we have because we have great professionals. Sure, I do. And that we can't criticize the pediatric system because primary square coverage is 88%. But it's just that Asturias is 98%; Castile and Lion 99%; La Rioxa, 99%; Cantabria, 96%... Of course, we have to take a little perspective. If we have the third worst rate of doctors per resident throughout Spain, medical schools in Spain. It's not data I gave. What is our rate of per capita nursing in the public health system? The worst of Spain, which is already a country that has little respect for Europe, because we have many specialties that also cover some other squares, but still weak. And we have Spain's worst. To come here to say this is good is easy, but reality is different, and we're not telling you, as we said from the beginning, that at least I know that my fellows and since I'm a health spokesman, we know that it's not one thing from day to day, but we've known a few years since it's not one day to another. Not from year to year, from year to year. And, look, finally, it's not all money, I know it's a very liberal position to understand that everything is money and that everything is bought. You can't argue here, as you really do, that I say that I think they're wrong in the human plane, tell people that they can't claim stability because they pay a lot. It's not all money, because it's not a market where people can freely choose between worthless objects. Stability also means knowing if after a year, which is not stability, they'll be able to continue to be hired here or not. Because we're not talking about a timely need, this is a system that fortunately has a very broad structural capacity, but we can make long-term forecasts. It's not all the money, it's not about saying that they charge 60,000 euros and they charge a lot. Because I think they deserve it, because wage debate is dangerous, I think they deserve it, of course they deserve it! And, as they deserve, you can't tell them that it's a lot, because they deserve them, and what we say is that they deserve this year and also what comes, because we need them, and therefore say that they're going to charge 60,000 euros a year and they can't protest, and we'll see next year, that's instability, and that's if it's precarious, too, because it's not just a matter of euros, it's not just. That's why I'm saying it also has to do with the paper that supports everything, that you say now they work 7 hours a week. So tell us how it's done, that you're going to do 10 minutes per primary care consultation, with professionals who work 7 hours a day; 10 minutes per consultation having 7 hours of work doesn't give for the average of patients we have, and much less for most of them who care for more than 50.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u92	...because in the end the paper supports everything here, and the paper supports everything here too, but you have to understand that the system is complex and you have to combine the two wills. It's not all money or it's all talk; data says we're bad in working conditions, that we have great professionals who support them, but that we can improve them, and that's what we're defending, it's not anything so revolutionary either. And more so, I'm sure that you in your role as advisor does the role you have to do, but in your real knowledge you know, that some reason we have, because the judges say it, that you hire in a tortured and fraudulent way and that you haven't told me anything yet, probably because it's true.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u94	Thank you very much, President. Well, Mr. Torrado, I'm going to insist on the subject of continuity contracts, because I repeat that you seem unclear. The contracts were initially always between one and three years old, it wasn't something that was added later, I remember perfectly when it was approved at the sectoral table and when it touched us implementing it. It was from three years to three years, the reason to put it from one to three years, and even after being able to become a structural square, it was because initially they had no territorial location in this case and it was pending if that structural square would shut -- said in some way -- in that health center or in that area. But I can tell you that all those who have consolidated, the contracts that started for a year have expanded; and the commitment of the council is to stretch them to three years, and -- it also seems that it doesn't matter -- to make them structural, Mr. Torrado, into structural. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, but then we can't... we can agree on what they needed before, but since this measure is set up in 2019 we're going to try to add... do you think this is a correct measure? If you think it's right, support it, don't say it's a measure that doesn't work and say it's a year. I'm not a year old, Mr. Torrado, they're between one and three, and they become structural, I can't tell you more clearly. I talked about the salary of these collectives because you talked about precariousness. I think a doctor just finished his specialty, that's a completely decent salary, and I think it's not precarious him, so I use the amount. He didn't listen to this counselor, and I think that no one in the government, talk about doctors charging a lot or taking a little, charge what they deserve. Besides, by the way, in the line of what is charged throughout the Spanish state, they are neither the first nor the last of the queue in pay. And, in case it was little -- I repeat -- in the pandemic year this government approved the two levels of career; that -- I repeat -- 10 million euros this year, 10 million euros next year. This doesn't seem like anything to you, either. And when he talks about precariousness and conditions and, well, he uses that expression, which I certainly don't like anything and I can't assume at all, that Sergas is an ETT, look, we also have to respect not only the professionals who work in the field of care, but the people who work in the field of human resources: the administrative, the technicians, the group heads, even the directors of those health care. Galicia has been an example throughout the state, you can go to those communities that you talked about and ask them what they have to perceive about the number of OPs that are being done in Galicia, that they have not stopped doing all this time; and compare with the OPs that are being done in other autonomous communities or those that are -- which he was commenting on right now -- in force right now. It's an unprovoked effort, first of the people who attend the courts -- which I want to take advantage of here to thank you for the work you're doing, for example, in the constitution of the opposition courts that will be there after summer, the huge work that they do to be able to collaborate in that this OP is going exactly as well as all the previous ones -- and then, of course, all the people who organize these processes, and all the people who then make the corresponding contracts. So -- I repeat -- a minimum of respect for all these people who are working every day precisely so that the Galician Health Service is an example of stability. I've been telling you for a while that with 42,000 people hired in Sergas the number of incidences of all kinds -- vacations, unpaid permits, IT, congresses -- it's so wide that, of course, we can't stop having that eventuality. But, however -- as I told you before, too -- we're working to reduce them to the minimum essential. There are figures that are covered by our regulations -- pacts, by the way, at the sectoral table -- which are envisaged to make these substitutions. I speak, for example, of the pull, the famous pull, which is a condition that is established, has very strict rules and is used normally. And then, of course, all the people who are going to cover an absence, of course they're going to be possible, they went through that eventuality, and I too, of course -- and there'll still be possible to cover those absences which, of course, as I say, are innate to the structural work of the owners that -- as I say -- have their permissions. I want to insist on enhancing all processes in the field of human resources of counseling in recent years, which encourage workers to be in the best possible conditions; for example, I insist again on the open and permanent competition. And you were also talking about improvisation with retirements. Look, there's no improvisation, the Galego Health Service in 2010-2011 established a Human Resources Management Plan -- which, by the way, was the trend in all autonomous communities at that time -- to establish compulsory retirement at the age of 65; I can give you the example of Asturias and Catalonia, before. And a few years later, in 2015, in view, on the one hand, of the situation of certain specialties and also of what professionals themselves transferred to us, adapted and made a more lax interpretation of that plan; and from then on there was no change, from 2015 to now, 2021, retirement is not fixed in the 65s, but every year the professional asks for his continuity and is going on. It's true that we don't know how many people are going to retire at 65, so there are people who can retire before, and we don't have that automation that we could have on the theme of the 65. But, of course, I think it's a positive measure that's favoring professionals who still didn't want to stop working with us. They're still here with us. As for the MIR call you said, I really don't know what statements you're talking about. This council -- and in fact moved it on three occasions in the Interterritorial Council -- asked by the MIR selection system. You might refer to what the board said that the problem wasn't that it was either telematics or not telematics, the problem was in the options that MIRs have when they have to choose; that's what this advisor said and what he passed on to the Health Minister... well, I'll have to be a slave to my words not yours. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So we're still insisting -- well, it's going to count later --...in that it's a critical moment for the MIRs and we hope that the Ministry of Health will rectify and allow the Greek and non-Greek MIRs to choose in the same conditions as they're coming up to the present; especially for them, first of all, for our system, and also because we don't have the squares of those that you've been commenting on unmet vacancies, which is the greatest risk we've got right now. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Finally, Mr. Torrado, I believe that the Galego Health Service and the council work for the defense of their professionals, firstly, for the defense of patients, of course; secondly, for the defence of professionals; and thirdly, for giving the best possible attention, which is not feasible without the professionals being in the best conditions. I would like to stress again in this order that we have now established and signed these days and agreed unanimously on a sectoral table to collect these new forms of procurement, to collect causality. We believe that an effort must be made to reduce eventuality, we believe that an effort must be made to adjust contracts to the causes that generate them; we have been working on this for many years, Mr. Torrado. Of course, with all the contracts that are made every day, I'm not saying there can be any mistake -- that there has been it and for that are the internal and external resource mechanisms when they don't work -- but, of course, our intention is to improve stability, improve recruitment and, ultimately, improve the working conditions of the professionals and thus improve the attention we give our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u95	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next point, questions to the Government. Let's start with the first one, but if it seems to you, as the counselor was entering the car in the Chamber, the result of this change, we suspended 2 minutes per session and we took back the questions to the Government in 2 minutes. Thank you very much for your understanding. The session is suspended for 2 minutes. The session is resumed. We resumed the session where we left it and then we started with the first question to the Government. Question by Juan Carlos Rivera, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons for the delay in the allocation to self-government and self-government and to the small and medium-sized companies of the funds received pursuant to Royal Decree Law 5/2011 of 12 March, in support of business solvency To put the question, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u96	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. After 15 months of pandemic with a situation known to everyone, a situation in the field of public health and in the very complex and very complicated economic environment; the year 2020, a dramatic year in health terms and, of course, also in economic terms; a year 2021 which finally allows to visualize a certain level of hope and expectation that things will go much better as a result of the vaccination strategy -- put in doubt at the time by Mr Feijóo -- and that it will allow an important group vaccination that the economy will recover with more speed as well. In the face of this situation, we have the question that we have to ask you basically is that you're making Junta in relation to the autonomous and the pemes. And I explain this because, in fact, from the state through 2020 and during 2021, important efforts have been made also with the autonomous community, transferring funds from the state to the autonomous community, precisely to alleviate the effects of the pandemic, to address all the economic complexity that has brought the pandemic. In 2020 -- to cite accounts -- 735 million of the Covid Fund, 17 million of the Covid Social Fund, social benefits paid by the State here in the autonomous community, to EUR 10,596 million, ICO loans, EUR 5 billion that benefited from the acquisition and financing of more than 36,500 companies in the country. In the year 2021, an actual budget of the Galician Union, which is very expansive, 1,500 million extra expenditure, of higher spending capacity than the year 2019; part of them, 685 million from a transfer from the state, and 430 million from the React funds. And now in March, with the approval of the Royal Decree of Business solvency, the Galician Union received 234 million euros just to help the self-employed and the pemes. And in view of this situation, the reaction of the Union is absolutely slow, ineffective and ineffective. That's why we ask you what are you waiting for to put into the hands of the self-sufficient and pemmy 234 million people who have been received from the state 50 days ago? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u97	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Response from Employment and Equality Advisor. [[Applause]] Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Well, first of all, if I'd like to say that in March, no third-party rescue plan fund was transferred to Join, but in May. In March the actual state decree was passed. Then I think you have to do well the calculation of the days. Galicia if it has launched these 234 million transfers by the Central Government through Royal Decree 5/2021, it has already done so at last's board, where the corresponding order was approved, and the next Friday, on 11th, will be issued the order in the CEO. With the approval of this third rescue plan, Junta will have made available to self-employed people and businesses in Galicia more than 560 million euros in just 8 months. The government of the state has been more than a year without making a single comeback to provide liquidity to self-government and businesses. It's late, it's wrong, it's trailing, it's done with excessive bureaucracy, it's done with a series of requirements that are frankly very difficult to meet by most of the autonomous. It distributes Galicia 234 million euros, i.e. 3.34% of the 7 billion euros in total transferred to communities. Restrictions on 95 economic activities of a total of 629 existing in the CNAE catalogue, i.e. only 15% of business tissue. And, above all, it obliges aid recipients to have payment debts at the time they apply for help so they can be beneficiaries. What's the Galician Union doing and what's it been doing since the Royal Decree came out? Try to establish as flexible a mechanism as possible for autonomy. We set up aid for any autonomous, for any business of any economic activity affected by the pandemic whenever it shows a fall in the volume of operations. We set up and reserve 85% of these funds for self-employed and microenterprises, which is 97% of the productive tissue in Galicia. We minimized bureaucracy. 100% in advance of the amount of aid with a declaration responsible for the autonomous or the company. I repeat, the State has taken more than a year to establish this aid mechanism; therefore it is quite surreal that the Socialist Party asks the Greek Government for help. I ask you: did you ask for explanations in Madrid to your socialist ministries why Galicia accounts for 3.34% of these 7 billion euros? Have you asked why, in fact, you have to justify autonomous debts pending at the time when the application for aid is submitted? Finally, they asked for explanations of why a mechanism is set up that the autonomous themselves -- look today at the press -- UPTA Association of Autonomouss, states that 40% of the 7 billion euros will not reach the autonomouss or companies by the requirements set out in the mechanism of the real state decree. Nothing else for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u99	Thank you, Counselor. [[Laughter]] Well, I'm glad you reacted in time. [[Laughter]] Replica, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u100	Yes, thank you, President. Counsellor, you have been installed for a long time in propaganda, in constant and permanent advertising, and basically in confrontation with the Government of the State, a work that effectively does wear out quite effectively through the media that are attached to them, and also through some even those who are not so close to them. A wear job that doesn't hide the data, and it's the amount of help that the Galician Union has to offer to self-employed people and pemes: 150 million in two years. I gave him exactly data on the transfers that the Spanish State, which the Government of the Spanish State made to Galicia in 2020: 735 million of the Covid fund, 17 million of the Covid social fund, plus the benefits they paid and those that were made in the year 2021, 685 million. That, of that volume of transfers you alone and exclusively devoted 150 million to aid to self-government and pemes. And now you have EUR 234 million, here was a debate two months ago where Mr. Tellado, spokesperson for the People's Party, called for the immediate payment of these EUR 234 million to the Galician board, which happened at the end of April; you have been spending 45 days with the money deposited in the accounts and have not yet been able to publish the order, Counsellor, beyond the announcements you made in the press in May and beyond the announcements that Mr. Feijóo made last week at the board of directors. [[Applause]] Self-employed people are going through a dramatic situation and what they need is liquidity, liquidity that you don't contribute, but that provides the state and you have in your accounts. They're paid once. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u101	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Close the question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u102	Thank you, President. This third plan is not an announcement made by the president of the board, the Council of the Council of Galicia has approved the plan, which I think to talk about when I'm telling you that it's approved at the board of directors and that it's going to be published next Friday, I don't know what you think we're announcing. The third plan follows what the Government is doing, which is not the million of what you're talking about; it's 182 million from the Employment and Equality Council directly in liquidity to the self-employed and another 145 million from the different sectoral councils directly also for each sector. The bonus tourism, the help to rent, nightlife, etc. From the plans of the Galician Union, the rescue plans of the Galician Union for giving it a data, the sector that had the most health restrictions, which was the hospitality sector, received EUR 87 million; they received aid from 21,000 beneficiaries. We're talking about 90% of the bars and restaurants and hotels in the autonomous community have received direct help with funds from the Galician Union. So we're talking about what at least more than 4,000 euros went to the archives of these hotels, restaurants and self-funding bars while we were hoping that the state would transfer funds to autonomous communities. In eight months we're going to take 416 million euros distributed in 126,500 aids. I mean, the General Employment Directorate is going to process and manage more budget in 8 months than the entire Employment and Equality Council in the initial budget, 355 million. As I tell you, 416 million plus 145 are managed through other departments, 560 million euros to sectors and economic activities affected by the pandemic. It seems from what you say you haven't read the real state decree, because if you don't, it's impossible that you're really saying what you're saying here. The rescue plan established by the State establishes a series of bureaucratic obstacles almost impossible to comply with. It sets a budget with a maximum aid of 200,000 euros per autonomous. If we divided the amount of money corresponding to the Autonomous Community of Galicia between that aid, we would say that aid would reach 1,000 companies, when there are 250,000 companies in Galicia. So we're going to get an order this Friday that allows self-employed and businesses, all of them especially affected, to access the aid; we prioritize and reserve that 85% of the budget to the small company to reach 97% of the productive fabric in Galicia and, above all, guarantee the greatest possible agility, the least possible bureaucracy, with that 100% advance of the aid with a responsible statement from the beneficiary. We will therefore try to keep the money in Galicia, to get the money to the autonomous and not to come back again, which seems to be what the State wants, to the Ministry of State Affairs. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u103	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and six other Members, by Mr P. Popular de Galicia, on the management carried out by the Government of Galicia to defend Galicia's financial autonomy and to try to reverse the amendment to Article 36 of the Income Tax Act for natural persons which provides for the draft law on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today's question concerns the successive covenants provided for in Galicia's own right, in Galicia's civil right, a matter in which unfortunately it rains on wet. And allow me, Counsellor, to remind you that in 2014, following the persistent action of the State Tax Agency in Galicia, which treated the heirs who received goods from their parents through the successor pacts, if they were constantly inspected by the Tax Agency, some of them resorted to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that persistently told them they were exercising a right provided for in the Greek legal order, and therefore calling upon them to cancel the actions of the Tax Agency, which even reached the Supreme Court, which once again gave reason to the taxpayers in this case. In that process I had the honour to defend in this House a non-law proposal in which the Tax Agency was asked to respect the judgments that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia was ruling, which was adopted, by the way, unanimously by all present, except for a group that is not in the House today, which has abstained. Interestingly, after the ruling of the Supreme Court, the Tax Agency has ceased to act, but it seems not very convinced by this legal defeat it is introduced in a law that is being dealt with in Congress, the Anti-Fraud Law, which we applaud, because we consider that everything that is fighting tax fraud is positive for society and for the country, but they put there a clause by which any heir, beneficiary of a covenant in life, which possesses the immovable property that inherits by this way, will be treated, without any possibility of proof contrary, as a fraudster in the sense that he is actually making a sale which implies a capital gain which is taxed by the IRPF, which obviously causes enormous damage to the contributor and, secondly, clearly distorts the figure of civil law, to the other consequences that we could look at in the fiscal field or, without going further, in the field of financial autonomy bearing in mind that the tax on successions is transferred to autonomous communities. That's why in 2020 we brought a new non-law proposal, this time unfortunately it was not supported by all the House groups that were present and voted on in 2014, and in it it was urged to take action on the possibility of, in the process of amendments to the Anti-Fraud Law, deleting that clause that clearly distorts the content of the covenants in life which provides for our own right of Galicia. And that's why, Counselor, we asked you, considering what you just passed from Congress to the Senate without change, which were the managements that the Government did about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u105	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Reply by the Conseilante de affaira e Administración Pública.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u106	Mr. President. Your Honor, on the defence of Galicia's financial autonomy, three questions. First, this is a matter that is generating enormous concern among citizens, since, as most of you know it, Galicia has its own civil right, and one of its main institutions is the possibility of formalizing successor pacts with which life may be transmitted in the same conditions as deadly transmissions. In fact, the roots and importance of this figure are just one data: since 2016 there have been more than 160,000 of the Greeks and Greeks who have embraced this modality. The second question is that, as the German Government, we reject the amendment that drives the PSOE coalition government. We are empowered by Article 36 of the IRPF Act, which is provided for in the draft law on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud. Because with the change we want to introduce, we are facing a new threat from the Central Government, in this case against our self-government, against our ability to have our own civil rights institutions and against our financial autonomy. And it's already raining on wet because this attack is not an isolated fact. And the third question is to express to you the assurance that the Greek Government has done, does and will do everything possible to reverse this attack against our self-government. Madam, almost everyone remembers that on this issue we have already spoken in this Parliament on 27 January, where the Union was urged to address the Government of Spain -- and I quote from the text -- that it respects the financial autonomy and the regulatory capacity in tax matters that the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government and the laws recognise Galicia, by the way, without any vote against. I myself have sent a letter to the Minister of Finance not only to transfer this claim to him, but to explain to him often the unfair consequences that it would have for the Greeks if the reform that would be approved would prosper. And unfortunately, more than four months later, I received no answer. In addition, last week the German Government called on the High Commission for the Study and Development of Civil Rights in Wales to discuss this issue, and its pronouncement was also to reject this change of taxation in successor pacts. So once again since the German Government, as we have done on other occasions, we will act with institutional loyalty, but with total firmness. Institutional loyalty because, despite the lack of response from the Central Government, the Galician Union remains open to any consultation or negotiation to reverse the desired change. And full firmness, because just like we've done with the 2017 EVI monthly held by the central government and the courts just gave Galicia the reason...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u107	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u108	...in this case we will also use all political and legal channels...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u109	Thank you, Counselor, time's up. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u110	Thank you very much, Counselor. Indeed, the social impact is obvious, and also bad at this time when many young people can capitalize on and start an activity, or have less financial burdens when they are independent of their parents thanks to those help from their parents that is perfectly legitimate according to our civil rights and that, if this goes ahead, because unfortunately they will be very poor. I regret the Government's lack of response, but I would like to tell the House and the councillor that we are still in time, we are in time because it's in the Senate and simply with which the Welsh political forces make the Senate see the importance of this and the possible economic consequences that it could have, but also the legal consequences it might have, we're still in time to change. It was many who shared this opinion, I don't want to see this as a confrontation with the Government, which seems that whenever someone complains of something it seems to be confronting the Government. Because the opinion is very broad, there is an article that has published, as the honourable Member says, the fellow of the Block, the newspaper written in the press of greatest roll of Galicia, the mayor of Ares, my colleague of faculty, socialist mayor Julio Iglesias, who clearly says that this is a hit on Galician civil law, and we believe that we must all jump in the same direction. I, too, have registered an initiative that goes on this line, in supporting everything, if unfortunately this ends so in the Senate we'll have to look for legal formulas to run it, but I think we're in time, as I said, to prevent it from raining on wet as we need to recall again the esctolological phrase of Castile on rain when it rains in Galicia. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u111	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Close this question, Conseilante de affaira e Administración Pública.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u112	Your Honor, I've already told you in my first speech, we're not in the face of an isolated fact, and the German Government will be respected as we have done with the 2017 IVE monthly. Today all the Greeks and the Greeks know perfectly what the position of the Greek socialists and of Podemos on this matter was. Curiously, now that the courts have just given us reason, it seems they want to give us a 180 degree turn. The Greeks do not forget that they did not support this claim, as we do not forget that in the only budgets approved by this coalition government at the central level, the level of investment for Galicia is at the levels of fifteen years ago. Nor do we forget the allocation of funds to deal with the 2020-2021 pandemic, which with the criteria of the autonomic financing system we would have to count on 660 million more. I think this is a bad type of institutional loyalty that the Central Government is having towards Galicia. Now we are faced with a new, totally unnecessary challenge, which aims to turn by legal disposition a perfectly valid legal business into tax fraud without the taxpayer being able to discuss it and without the Tax Agency having to do anything. The most important thing is that we cannot accept in any way that the proposed rule enables all beneficiaries to treat as fraudrs, because they assume fraudulent behavior that does not support proof on the contrary, creating a genuine legal fiction, legal fiction that on these matters the Constitutional Court itself has already pronounced itself recognizing the unconstitutionality of these types of figures by violating the principles of economic capacity and effective judicial protection. Bigger words, then. He's also paying attention to the principle of equality. Even so, it goes against the principle of neutrality of the tax system and it does generate legal insecurity by not providing for a transitional period. Finally, the reform promoted by the Central Government and its partners on the legacy of life goes against our financial autonomy, attacks our ability to have own civil law institutions and violates our rights recognized both in the Constitution and in the Statute and in the laws. For all this, I already told you in the first intervention: total institutional loyalty, but total firmness in our positions because we have no other intention but to reverse what is intended with this reform which penalises the inheritances living in Galicia. And I've already told you that, in the event of this proposal coming forward, the Council of Galicia is already studying and we have a very advanced legal route to defend before the courts the rights and interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, as we always do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u113	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and six other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the progress in the expansion of the network of integrated vocational training centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u114	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. The momentum given to vocational training has been materialized in many different actions and measures from a normative and organizational point of view. The closer and closer relationship between the demand of the Greek production sectors and the formative contents of the different cycles, both medium and higher grades, as well as the performance of practices in the company, is attractive to many students. The formative, theoretical and practical nature of vocational training continues to arouse the interest of young people, as they are aware that it contributes to improving their opportunities for access to a job. In fact, students who choose this type of training get a job entry in the first year after they hold around 86%, a figure that increases almost to 90% if we talk about dual vocational training, a job insertion that has increased over the past four years by more than 30 points. These are figures that really deserve a reflection about the push of this training offer that each time counts with a better social perception and that there is time that has ceased to be the poor sister of our education to have more and more students and training specialties, even specialties very adjusted to the times, such as the superior cycle of aircraft maintenance with turbine engines or strengthening professional families such as energy and water, or offering cycles very attached to the reality of each territory, such as dual FP in thermalism and well-being or footwear and supplements. In this respect, the Education and Culture Commission, a few months ago, adopted the agreement that the German Parliament had urged the Greek Government to expand the network of integrated vocational training centres in Galicia through the incorporation of new centres to improve the supply of cycles and specialties of FP, with the aim of advancing the training and acquisition of attitudes and skills of the student in Galicia. For all this, Mr Counsellor, we would like you to explain in more detail how the work of expanding this network of integrated vocational training centres has evolved, which, in addition, agrees with an initiative approved in this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u115	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As you know, vocational training in Galicia is a strategic bet of this Government, a strategic bet that we make it from the conviction that it is good for the student and is good for the productive sectors, and ultimately good for Galicia. We have done and advanced in different areas with a good follow-up, with a good impact on the student, because we are sure that the lessons taught in this teaching system are useful, useful for access to the labour market and ultimately useful for the people who study them. There's data that evaluates this bet; in fact, if we compare 9 students (about 34,700) to current students (more than 56,000), we have a 62% increase in enrolment. So if we see the employability rates, which you've mentioned, we've met with an average of around 85-90%, in some case 100%. I think the improvement of FP in Galicia was a real one, it's a true silent revolution that is based on many aspects. And one of them is important, very important, because it is the consolidation and development of integrated vocational training centres, the so-called ICFP. We now have 20, this course start to work to see the possibility that in certain IES we could jump to their conversion to CIFP. In fact, initially we're only thinking in three cases, which are the ones I quote below. In Ferrol, the old IES Leixa will be the CIFP Leixa; here we will have an increase of more than 250 new FP squares with new training cycles, actually six, and with innovative proposals very related to the labour market. At Pontedeme, the CIFP Fraga do Eume, 80 new squares, two new cycles, and at Culleredo in the old Labor, at the Labor University, we will increase the offer in 245 squares with seven new cycles, one of them dual FP. I think we're in a tremendously positive dynamic, we're expanding the supply in those cycles with higher demands, we're going to start this course, so 23 new CIFP initially because of course we'll keep working on this line. And we do so with the conviction that empowerment and the value of vocational training is good, it's good for the student, because it's used, it's used directly in contact with the productive sectors, but it's also very good with companies and productive sectors, which have more and better trained their human resources and therefore have more competitive capacity, greater ability to maintain themselves in a competitive market and therefore greater job creation capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u117	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rodeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor for the answer. This parliamentary group also believes in the many possibilities offered by vocational training in our community. And we are aware of the effort made by the Galician board in recent years to increase the number of cycles and also the number of students following this type of educational offer. As you have just moved us, in just ten years, the number of pupils and students of the different specialties of Galician vocational training has increased in that 62% of enrolment. The truth is that it is a firm commitment to vocational training that the Greeks and the Greeks today view this training offer as a guarantee of both future and quality employment, with training that adapts to the characteristics of the productive fabric and ensures the realization of professional practices that bring the student closer to the reality and life of businesses. Even by intensifying its collaboration with the Galician Confederation of Entrepreneurs to improve supply, taking into account market demands, as well as the socio-economic reality, which will certainly make it easier to improve the employment of students. With this objective in mind to bring training closer to the needs of companies, because we would like to know in more detail what role the so-called Masters of FP will play, and also why this future new Centre for Innovation and Vocational Training, and also, if you have time, if you can expand the activity of these 20 existing integrated centres that are currently running. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u119	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, the ICFP, the integrated centers began to develop in Galicia about a decade ago. I remember in this House passionate debates about their relevance or not. The People's Party and the Galician Union have always defended against other political options the strategic importance of integrated vocational training centres to ensure employability, to ensure connection with the world of work and to have an innovative education in the field of vocational training that opens the doors of the labour market to people studying these studies. We currently have 20 integrated vocational training centres, we will have for the next course 23. About 45% of the enrolment of vocational training students in these 20 centres, obviously with the three new ones, will increase. We have to wait until we close the registration that was published on Monday precisely to really know how many students will run FP in the next course. But we aspire to the fact that about 50% of the pupils who do vocational training in Galicia are doing it in an ICFP, they do it in integrated vocational training centres that they create, they have a network located in the main cities and villages of the country from which coverage is given to the whole of the territory of Galicia, with a conviction that they will undoubtedly contribute to adapting training in the field of vocational training to the needs of pupils and businesses. There must be a direct connection between the business world, between the productive sectors and the education sector in the field of vocational training. As for the masters you cited, last year in the ICFP itself, there were pilot experiences, and we developed 5 pilot experiences of 5 masters. We obviously aspire to the fact that in the next offer of masters that we will do in a very few days we have a much higher number of masters, that what they are giving and doing is creating a training specialization in key areas demanded by the labour market so that students can be trained in the best advances, both technological and innovation, so that they can be useful. In this case, to encourage companies to have more competitive capacity. And, of course, that they have, that students have more opportunities to use in the world of work. We also have a link, there will be a very strong link with the Galician Innovation Center in Vocational Training, which is about to end in Ourense. This is an absolutely innovative centre, which bets on innovation, which bets on future professions, which bets on entrepreneurship, and which will generate a network functioning of the different FP centers, which will enable students and also teachers there to study and develop projects together with companies, along with productive sectors, and at this center have a greater capacity to generate this very necessary synergy between the company and the educational world. Finally, we want a modern, dynamic, innovative vocational training...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u121	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. Thank you, thank you. Question from Mercedes Queixas Zas, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the measures envisaged by the Galician Union concerning the conservation and placing in value of the cultural interest asset of the Teodomiro Tower, in the municipality of Aranga
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u122	You have the word of Mrs. Complaines Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u123	Congratulations, President. Counsellor, as you well know, six projects of wind farms are currently being processed in less than 5 kilometres on the Cat Mountain, which is located in the province of Coruña between the municipalities of Oza-Cesuras, Aranga and Coirós. A more example of a split wind macropark to avoid a global assessment of the entire project, as well as of the demanding guarantees, presenting in its default an individual environmental impact study for each project, and of those which are certainly still pending to publish the evacuation lines and their consequences on the territory. These studies are presented incompletely, inaccurately, as justified by the hundreds and hundreds of allegations made. Studies lacking rigor and credibility therefore, in addition to being uncontextualized between themselves because of the lack of that comprehensive study that we have already demanded in committee and which has not been accepted by the votes against the People's Party. The allocation to the cultural heritage is evident, because on the Cat's mountain there is a large megalytic necropolis, consisting of 29 cataloged mammas and two petrogliphs, of which, as one of the studies confirms, declare 24 affected heritage elements, 24 of 29. 17 with a severe impact and 5 moderate. However, the heritage catalog of the PXOM, of the Town Hall of Aranga, collected that in the parish of San Vicente de Fervenzas, in the Cat Mountain, there is a BIC, an asset of cultural interest. It catalogues the Teodomiro tower, which is neither included in the tourist impact annex nor in the cultural heritage impact annex, nor in the environmental impact study itself. We're talking about a typical fortress of the Middle Ages, in the kingdom of Sweden, which consists of an ellipsoidal wall and probably a central body. An outstanding monument within the region, collected in the historical bibliography and of what has so far not been determined its precise location. At this point this BIC is already geolocalized by a team specialized in archaeology, the prospecting project is already presented that allows the perimeter delimitation of good, as well as the corresponding permission to the General Direction of Cultural Heritage by the neighbouring association of the parish of Fervenzas. So far they haven't had any official answers yet, and there's the solvent and objective neighboring concern about a possible application for disqualification by the company. That's why we bring this question to this plenary session that moves us to the community of Fervenzas: is there a request for the decatalogation of this good of cultural interest? What measures are you taking at the Cunta de Galicia to ensure the conservation and placement in value of the tower of Theodomiro as BIC?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam, you tell us about a project of an wind farm, and plant it and link it to a heritage asset in this case, which you know perfectly well that it is not physically located in the territory. I think it is difficult to question this government's commitment to the protection of our heritage and, of course, to the heritage wealth we have in Galicia spread by the whole of our space. We have a record, too, that you just said here, that there is the idea, that there is the memory of this castle. There is bibliography; for example, the Chronicles of the history of the city of Betanzos of 1892, and we have historical documentary sources that tell us about the existence of this good. There is, as you also said, no physical remains until the moment that you can believe your location within the territory. You also know that this is a BIC, it is a generic BIC, which was declared in 1949 in a decree, in this case signed by the Franco dictator, just like all the castles in Spain, whatever their state of conservation. As I've already said, it's not located so far, there's some evidence that we're told that they might presumably be an archeological remnant of this tower, and it's true that there's a request for the development of a technical project. You can convey without any doubt to the neighboring group by responding to this concern, that the jobs are authorized, we authorize the jobs that seek to clear the doubts if there exists or there is no such good where you are intentionally saying you might be. We are talking about hypothetical issues, which obviously have to be certified from the historical, archaeological perspective, from the obviously necessary rigor and from the implications that from the urban perspective and from the different conditions in the different uses of the territory may or may not have the location and physical location concrete of this good. In any case, I can also announce to you, Madam President, that if this finding is confirmed, as in any other case, we will obviously take all the measures necessary for its preservation, for its research, for its preservation and for the implementation of the measures that are recorded in the various legal frameworks. And obviously, first of all, we will confirm that there is, and secondly, measures will be taken from there and it will be protected as any archaeological deposit that is worthy of a....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u126	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up, thank you. Replica, Mrs. Complaints:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u127	Thank you, President. Well, as you well say, Mr. Counselor, there is a BIC; indeed, there is a BIC because there is much more than evidence, because there are documentations that so bear witness, although at this moment it is not visually discernible. What has to be clear is whether there really exists the government's commitment to action, because that's what society certainly does not have at all clear, rather the opposite after the answer it has reached from the General Heritage Directorate itself, of course orally. If you say they're authorized, then why did you ask for that application and that permission doesn't know? Why didn't you get that answer in writing? That's what you have to explain to the people responsible for that project, to those who have applied for that permit of prospecting and, of course, to the neighbouring community that has also dealt with it. Tell you, and tell you above all in the most important and rigorous way, which is in writing, that indeed this good will be protected and that you will not look elsewhere. If you, as you say, are about to defend and shield the natural, environmental heritage, and the cultural heritage of this area, please act and protect it immediately as what it is, an area of the Biosphere Reserve of the Coruñas and Lands of Mandeo, and also extend the demand of the Nature Network as a demand for the European Union precisely for this outline. The Union has to be clearly positioned if in this case, as in others, it is either with Greenalia, authorizing what is a clearly harmful work, because it even ignores the cultural heritage from this fragmented and fraudulent proposal, and since the lack of credibility of an environmental impact study that doesn't even collect elements like a BIC, like the tower of Theodomiro. Or you have to say, if you actually -- and prove it with facts -- is with the protection of the collective cultural heritage, which defends the people, immediately authorizing, and yes in writing and communicating to the parties that request...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Time's up. Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u129	Thank you very much. Your Honor, there's a BIC, no doubt there are historical sources, the question is where, that's what you're investigating, and that's what you've given permission by the Galician Board to know where, because depending on where you are, you have different conditions and consequences. That's obvious. That's pure urban legislation. In any case, the work is authorized. It will come, I'm sure immediately to the collective who asked for it, I don't have the slightest doubt, that's an administrative procedure. What are you going to do? We're going to examine on the field foot the possible remains of the building, we're going to check the toponymous evidence and we're going to see everything that has to do with the documentation on the road network. You'll obviously have to wait for the results. I know the Block usually has two words that he likes very much, one is not and the other is already. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. This will be done as it has to be, with the archaeological rigour it has to do and, if you actually check the precise location, there will be the development of all the heritage protection figures that a BIC has and will act absolutely accordingly, but obviously let the technical teams that have to fix where each point is. With which the truth is that I have no doubt that, when the location is confirmed, there will be a heritage protection, a heritage condition associated with BIC legislation. That's absolutely obvious, because not doing so would be illegal. And I can also tell you that any intervention that is made around this finding when it is consolidated, if it is consolidated, because it has to be subject to archaeological control, with which it can be absolutely certain that we are going to act with all the existing legal tools, and that we couldn't do it in any other way, we couldn't do it either with or with. We have to do it the way we have to do it, because it's also our responsibility, but we also need to be aware that heritage protection instruments have very specific purposes. It cannot be used in a torturing manner for other purposes, with which, if you locate, if you locate, if you confirm the location of this BIC that is in the historical sources, obviously the heritage protection force that has the BIC figure will apply with all its consequences. There's no doubt about it. With which, the truth is, in this theme at the bottom, we're basically saying the same thing: that it is located, it is located, it is protected and it is followed up with it. We say the same thing, I don't understand to some extent why these doubts are posed as mistrust of the heritage protection action being done in this BIC as in any other BIC that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u130	Thanks, time's up. Thank you, thank you. Question by Mr Martín Seco García, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the actions of the Greek Government regarding the forecasts to obtain the approval of the Path of the Lights as a route of great journey
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u131	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, five months ago we unanimously approved an initiative submitted by the Socialist Group asking the Galician Council to set up a multilateral work table in order to achieve the approval of the Path of the Lights, an approval which has been paralysed and pending for two years by a Greek Government that seems to be an initiative of success such as this path of hiking for the Bergantinos and Costa da Morte districts does not concern you. With this approved proposal, we called upon the Galician Council to set up a working table, in which, in addition to the Greek Executive, the Deputy of the Crown, the mayors of the nine municipalities for which the said road passes, the Association of Costa da Morte Tourism, the Association of the Path of the Lights, the Galician Mountaineering Federation and those other bodies and collectives that the table itself considered convenient. The aim of this table is to obtain approval and plan for the future of an activity that mobilizes up to 20,000 annual visits to the Bergantiños Death Coast. From the Socialist Group we also continue to bet on a Path of Lights as it is currently configured, and not steal its name from it or dilute it into another type of project that uses large consultants for mere economic use and leaving in the cunet the really important. It is necessary to save the hatches, especially the environment, with the ownership of the tracks as well, or the percentage of asphalt presented by the proposal, by discussing the changes proposed by the Association of the Paths of the Lights, the promoter of the project, and others that were placed on the table. These days ago, the Federación Camiño dos Faros had a meeting with the European Federation of Mountaineering because the Path of Lights could have the label Leading Quality Trails, the only one in Spain, something that is clear in the European federation but which continues to be misunderstood by the Council of Galicia, which does not comply with the agreement of December 2020, since until today they haven't even contacted the mayors concerned to see how to start doing the meetings of that table to get the said approval. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop fooling the citizens of Berganginos and Costa da Morte, stop letting them see that their government is concerned about the Path of the Lights. And listen to what I said the other day to the highest tourism manager in Galicia, Mrs Nava Castro, who doesn't have time or can join the table that was approved five months ago, but has time to go do other tourist promotions. And he said the reason why the Path of the Lights is not approved today is that the Union is involved in bringing forward its Path of the Lights throughout Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have to tell the citizens the truth from Malpica to Fisterra, telling them that the Galician Union wants to steal a worldwide successful initiative developed by a group of friends called Trasnos to dilute it in a general project across Galicia endangering the future of this route. That's why we ask you what you're waiting for the Government of Greece to set up the work table to obtain the said approval as a route of great journey after this agreement that dates back five months ago. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u132	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u133	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Seco, I believe that we want to steal a successful initiative and that we want to put people's efforts at risk... listen, nothing further. I believe that at the end we agree, at least it is the position of the most clear Galician Union, in which the Path of the Lights has tremendous value and must therefore be promoted without any doubt. It's almost 200 kilometers, a road that's practically stuck to the sea, very stuck to the sea in all its trajectory; and therefore it's very worthwhile, and it represents many of the things that we want to promote since the Galician Union in tourism: landscape beauty, contact with nature... at last, many things that need to be enhanced. So there was no doubt in him, we want to promote this Path of the Lights in all directions and at all levels. It's a destiny of a sustainable nature and therefore very potential interests and also serves to raise awareness and defend a stretch of the Coast of Death; and therefore that this whole area is always free of speculation and that you can enjoy as it is up to now and improve it if it can be -- that's why we're also interested --. And also, therefore, there was no doubt in him that we wanted to inspire, encourage, apply, go ahead with any initiative. And that's why you said you're trying to stop the effort; on the contrary, any public, business initiative, the effort of the municipalities, the effort of entrepreneurs that contribute to dynamizing this path and, therefore, the whole area that it is going through; that's right, with maximum transparency and maximum efficiency. I'm saying that because you know what lies behind all this... I don't want to call it a problem, right now it's a process that has to come to an end if we all agree to work in that direction. You know that here we're talking about the need to type a route, it's a great route, it's a GR route, and therefore, and I think that for a route to go forward to approval it's fundamental -- and in this it coincides a lot of people --. You also know that everything that has to do with GR brands, PR and SL brands; ultimately, all that is signaling trails is registered in the Spanish Patent and Brand Office, in the Spanish Mountaineering and Climbing Sports Federation, which has it here -- I have it in all autonomous communities -- delegate to the Galician Mountaineering Federation. So, what we have to do is to approve at the end, because it may seem a lot more administrative term, and you yourself said it in your explanatory statement and everyone who is talking about this subject has to be guaranteed security for those who go around, you have to guarantee sustainability; therefore, there are areas with special environmental protection that should be taken into account when marking the plot, ultimately, and there is a question of ownership of raisins -- you also say it in your explanatory statement --. All of this has to be taken into account in order to be able to make that type of approval and to give entity to this path, yes, within a coastal path that runs from The Guard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u134	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u135	...to the entire coast of the north.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u137	That's all we want to do, but we're working on it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u138	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u139	Yes, Counsellor, do you know how you can protect security and the environment, with approval; without it it is completely impossible. Stop fading the partridge, stop lying to the citizenry of the Coast of Death. Tell them why they've been paralyzing an environmental impact report for over two years, Counselor. Tell them what their real intentions are with respect to the Path of the Lights. You have to tell the citizenship that you really want to do a project initiated by a group of friends who formed the Association Path of the Lighthouses and tell them how they want to renounce the current project and dilute it in the name of their tourism manager their Path of the Lighthouses throughout Galicia. It's not wrong, Counselor; they work to consolidate a successful project for an area that needs so much of the tourist promotion for its economy. They don't take an initiative on the ground that even stands out in publications like Forbes or in Washington Post -- where it's been carried on -- by the more than 20,000 citizens who travel this route every year. And all of this is currently supported by an association of friends and the support of the nine municipalities that are part of the road. The problems that arise for approval know that they are lifesaving, that the solutions have to deal with them at this work table with local administrations, the Path Association of the Lighthouses and the Federation of Mountaineering. Stop blocking the environmental impact report and facilitate the dialogue between association and federation. Anyone who knows the Path of the Lights knows about their potentials, the need to bet on this project, what it means for the hospitality and trade of the municipalities by what they speak, the need to put all creativity and promotion from the Administration to promote an initiative that fosters a great deal of wealth. And what's also very important: how they manifest ecological organizations like the Petón do Lobo; we need regulation to respect our environment and our diversity. Counsellor, without regulation, there is no signaling, no cleaning protocol, no trade unionist safety, no protection from our natural environment and our diversity; only with one type-approval can we be able to build on this important route to Galicia and the Coast of Death.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u140	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. Close the question. Mr President-in-Office, President-in-Office of the Council, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Seco, with all the cordiality, of course, if you read the question to me but also read the answer to me, and you don't care what I tell you when I'm answering the question because then it's clear that you don't care what I tell you here. Because, of course, you read the answer -- I had it written -- so, if I tell you it's about approval and the problem is that you have to type it, and tell me that the solution is the approval. Well, indeed, that's what I was telling you in the question; therefore, you know that approval is the matter of the Galician Mountain Federation, which is working on this. So let's agree, what's the problem with homologating or not homologating? The problem is, with approval we want potential or the problem is what I had written in your answer already, I say, regardless of what I told you about dilution and I don't know how many... Let's really work. Look, if you, like your leader, take a picture there one day with the socialist representatives of the area, whether that's working or boosting the road, well, it's going to be a long way to discuss. If working is to meet like we met with all the mayors... well, you say no, of course your mayors don't give you information, you should worry because they don't tell you that there have been meetings with the representative of the geodestiny in that area and with the Sustainable Galicia Federation, which is responsible for doing the entire coastline and therefore also what has to do with the Path of the Lights to talk about a lot of things. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Those meetings were held, Mr. Seco, which contain them, which write them in the answer you just read to me too, because if it is not impossible to agree on this. Look, at that meeting, what was going on was at work sessions that had already taken place, which they wanted to facilitate a tool to provide information to trace. Two-three weeks later they came to work on that plot that was proposed to the technicians of the Sustainable Galicia Foundation. And then another session to close the consensual trace. Then there comes the Galician Mountaineering Federation, the approval that you claimed and which seems so important -- and in that we agreed -- to try after all that was said at those previous meetings because, that, to consent to a trace that can be approved to provide security. You yourself knew it, there's security issues, and it's also said in many places that don't get too close to the cliffs that are dangerous. All this will have to be signaled, I think that for a route to be attractive it has to be done safely and that's why it's going to be approved, so the Galeg Federation enters at these meetings. Then another joint meeting with the Town Councils took place. Then it's when this web tool and the geographic viewer are made available so that you can work and close a layout permanently, that's all you're doing. Look, would you like me to tell you the dates of the meetings? On April 27, Laxe and Vimianzo Town Councils; May 4th, Mujía Town Councils, Camarines and Pontiff. Man, some of these should inform you -- I say -- I see you didn't. May 13th, the counties of Fistra and Cee; and May 20th, the municipalities of Laracha and Malpica. These meetings have already taken place. We talked about all that and I can give you the records, because you have raised the record of those meetings, of what you have done, of what you have remembered, how you are working, the good disposition the mayors have in front of what you come here without much grounds. And now you can do that work table within the coastline and give entity to the Path of the Lighthouses, that's yes, sustainable, safe and in the future as you do. As a political struggle, so we don't go anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u142	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Mercedes Queixas Zas and D. Manuel Lourenzo Sobral, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the expansion of the stay of young people with disabilities in special education centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u143	Thank you, President. The urgent nature of our question to the Government is determined by the fact that we are only 15 days away from the closure of the present school course and the families of students enrolled in special education centres have not yet received a response to their demands from the Education Council. The ANPA platform of special education centres in Galicia has been moving even in writing for 2 years at the request of amendment of Decree 229/2011, which has as its object regular attention to the diversity of students in order to facilitate their personal and social development and their learning potential, facilitating them the acquisition of skills and the achievement of the general objectives set out in the Education Act. Well, article 20 of this decree that regulates schooling in special education centers limits the student's permanence in these educational centers to 21 years of age, putting an end -- to our seeing that of families -- abruptly and prematurely to the process of adapting personal, intellectual, social and emotional development that enables them to achieve the maximum possible performance of their abilities. The exceptional nature of this course further hampered the adapted development of this process of teaching-learning, closing of classes, total elimination of extra-school complementary activities, or even irregular or intermittent schooling in some cases due to health prevention derived from student pathologies. It justifies as an urgent and compensatory measure towards the next course the expansion of the schooling of the student who is 21 years old or older and who has not finished his training, an exceptionality which would continue the course already taken for this course. However, beyond this resolution that would be immediate and timely for course 2021-2022, it takes -- in our view -- to amend Decree 229/2011 to set the possibility of remaining educated in special education centres the student who exceeds 21 years enrolled in basic vocational training programs. That's why we move here, Counsellor, to this demand of families that have already done to the board directly: Is Junta willing to make the regulatory change necessary to allow the continuity of the student with disabilities in special education centres beyond the age of 21 to complete his academic training?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, the truth is that when we talk about people with special needs, special education, we must be very respectful, we must have a serene tone and we must not fail the truth. And you are failing the truth when you say this is a matter that is regulated in Decree 229/2011, the decree of attention to diversity. It is not this decree which sets a 21-year-old framework for pupils, persons with disabilities to be in special education centres, education centres, or social policy centres. That's not what a UN decree says, that's an organic law of the State of 2006, the LOE, which hasn't been recently modified in LOMLOE, that if you're so worried you've had occasion, would have had the opportunity to propose this amendment in the recent parliamentary debate that was held in the Congress of Deputies and you haven't done so. With which I believe you cannot fail the truth nor can you deny the commitment of this council to special education. I believe that we make it absolutely convinced that it is necessary, firstly, for social justice and, secondly, for supporting those who need it most. And the data, don't trust me, don't listen to me, just look at Galicia's comparative reports, of course, at the Spanish level and internationally. And you will realize that all reports say that the autonomous community is more inclusive from the educational perspective is Galicia. And you can't confuse the focus, you can't try to transfer to the Galician Union a responsibility that isn't from the Galician Union, which is set in an organic law of 2006 and which is the one that sets the age of 21 years for a person with disabilities to be integrated or attended from the educational perspective to the 21st, and then moves on to the social policy perspective from 21. I think that's the way it is, you can't deny it, it's obvious how much effort is made since the Galician Union, which is never enough. We've made remarkable progress, but there's still a lot left to do. But of course, you, as a serious and rigorous Member who is, should not try to transfer a responsibility for a state-owned organic legislation, which you have had the opportunity to modify and have not, to a decree by the Galician Council that can only develop within the legal framework actions or proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u146	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u147	...which brings up an organic law in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u148	Thank you, Counselor; thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u150	Replica, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u151	Yes. Thank you, President. Well, if there is any kind of incompatibility or conflict between Decree 229 and Decree 107, there will obviously have to be a solution and I think it must not be me or at least tell you that the competences in education are transferred to the board of Galicia; therefore, what has this council done to resolve this conflict and what is in any case the roadmap that you set out and commit here to transfer to the ANPA, to the ANPA Platform of special education centres in Galicia? That's the big question. From then on, Decree 107 allows education in educational programs up to the age of 26. So there's obviously an inconsistencies and an inconsistencies that we don't understand why the Education Council has either put the solution in or it's not working for it. Well, I can tell you that nothing happens if in this case we're not the first. Whether we're seconds or third parties, it's important to do it and do it well and be able to even learn from who did it before. For example, you have a precedent in the Community of Castile and León, which already committed this change by the end of 2019, this regulatory change to meet this demand which, of course, from our parliamentary group we understand that it is absolutely necessary. And, of course, we perceive it and receive it with the utmost seriousness and the maximum empathy for these families. What you have to demonstrate now is the Government of Galician Union and this Education Council which is also so attentive to them. I would also like to remind you of the recommendations of the Council of the European Union relating precisely to the need to reduce school dropout without having achieved this average qualification to ensure fair training. Because, as the European Union says, you know perfectly well that this collective, along with others, is vulnerable and can be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u153	...conditioned to social exclusion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u154	Thank you, thank you... time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u155	So, uh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u156	Thank you, thank you, thank you, time's up, you know how this is going. You know how it goes, time's up. [[Applause]] Close the question, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u157	Thank you very much. Madam, do not insist; you are talking about Galicia and talking about the European Union, but you are not talking about what you have to talk about. The regulation regarding the age of a student or a person may be either under guardianship or under educational service, or under the service of social policy is set out in an organic law that is LOE. You'll understand that Galicia, like the Autonomous Community of Castile and León, can't stand above the LOE, can't do it legally. With which to try to transfer that idea to people who have hope, no doubt, and that it is very positive that they want to continue to be in the educational system, to some extent it is not to tell you the truth or use that necessity or that vital requirement to try to extract a political revenue that I sincerely believe has no meaning in trying to develop that action. Because look, we know, special education centers have, we have a responsibility up to an age, up to 21, fixed in an organic law. It is also fixed by technical matters. Learning processes have a moment and social integration processes, and even labour integration have other moments, so the scope of social policy is broader in that sense than the purely educational field. Let's not get confused. So I think what you're proposing is part of a weakness, and it's just that you don't contemplate this organic framework in which the laws and decrees that develop them have to be developed. With which we don't have false expectations, we don't go into generating an expectation that is alibi or is fixed by an organic regulatory framework that -- I insist -- the BNG had the opportunity to modify and it didn't, it supported the law. LOMLOE you supported the law with your abstention. I mean, he doesn't care, he doesn't care. [[Murmurs.]] When someone abstains, it's so much to me. With which, their political concern why they didn't express it to the Government that they purposely support and that is to their partners, where they rule exactly everywhere they can do it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And why are they trying to transfer that responsibility in this case to the People's Party, to the Galician Union? They're wrong. They're wrong. They're wrong. If this can't be done it's for your partners, so they sit with you in the deputies, in the municipalities, everywhere. And if you try to confuse yourself, look, the truth is, it doesn't make much more sense. In any case, there's a very clear legal framework...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u159	...there's a clear responsibility of the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u160	Thank you, thank you, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u161	...clear in the issue of special education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u162	Thank you, Counselor, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u163	...and really playing confusing at the end...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u164	Thank you, it's over. The thing was clear. [[Applause]] Question by Da María del Carmen Aira Díaz and three other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to resolve the problem generated by the precarious facilities of the Emergency Service at the Comarcal Hospital in Monforte
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u165	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, in March 2020 the Monforte CAP for practical purposes has closed and mixed with hospital emergencies, competing for the same physical space. The non-sanitary staff of the CAP were installed with the administrative staff of the emergencies in a tiny enclosure that barely complies with the minimum safety and health measures. The health personnel to work occupied 2 boxes of the 5 that tell the hospital emergency. This was an interim emergency measure derived from Covid because of the need to establish the double circuit to avoid contamination. The Monforte Hospital has not implemented Manchester's triage, but the CAP's administrative staff have been bringing patients and deciding why circuits send them fairly insecurity legal to them, from our point of view. The waiting room of both emergencies also deserves me to stop because it is a space of 10 or 12 square meters, with a high and horizontal window which in winter had to remain closed. It has many transactions canceled, in fact it only has 7 operations, but in that space they seem excessive. Part of the CAP's dependencies in the face of the lack of boxing consist of a room without a window and no exploration area, and in front of the staff living room that accesses the night rest rooms, which are at various levels of the floor and give to a courtyard of light, do not contain emergency exits, so before a fire in the room the solution would be to pull out the window from an unrecommendable height. The CAP shares a cure room with hospital emergencies, which makes it more difficult to care for both emergency patients with agility. This happened more than a year ago without it being solved. What do you intend to do about it and, above all, when? Because there were many promises but few results Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Aira. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u167	Good morning, President; gentlemen. Mrs. Aira, the coronovirus has brought with it many changes in our lives, but one of the most significant has actually occurred in the management and organization of health; changes are all fundamental to ensure not only the safety of patients, but also that of professionals since the first time they faced the virus. For this, in both primary and hospital care, it was necessary, as you well said, to create double circuits to ensure security. It was necessary to establish separate areas for respiratory or suspected outbreak patients, and for patients with other pathologies with the objective of providing safe health care. Thus, within the framework of the health area continence plan in this case of Lugo, Monforte and Burela, alternatives were evaluated for the follow-up of patients who access the Emergency Service of the Hospital of Monforte and the CAP. After analyzing all the options, it was considered that it was best to create a Covid zone in the CAP installation for several reasons, including their accessibility, their ability to count on boxes that allowed individualised treatment, in addition to a self-sustaining and independent waiting room for this type of patients, as I said, with symptoms compatible with coronovirus infection. The other circuit, that of non-respiratory patients, would be located at the Emergency Service facilities and it also has an independent waiting room. All patients with respiratory pathology have been asked to consult in the corresponding circuit by the volunteers and the Emergency Service staff assigned to this task. In the non-respiratory circuit, the CAP patients were treated and sent to the CAP patients for the CAP's optionals, and the Emergency Service patients for the Emergency Service. For this, 3 boxes were assigned to the CAP, 3 to the emergency room so that the CAP professionals could consult. This layout has been maintained this way from the beginning of the pandemic. For this purpose, the organization was presented jointly by the Department of the Monforte Hospital and the Primary Care Directorate of the area and communicated, and talked and agreed with the professionals of the two care services: Emergency Service and CAP. And, therefore, it was -- I repeat -- consensual and accepted before its start. This double-circuits provision persisted during this pandemic period in which patients had to be cared for at times when very high numbers of infections were reached, and it was precisely this organization that allowed them to work safely with respiratory and suspected patients of Covid, and non-respiratory patients. In the face of a pandemic like the one we live in, we had to adapt and look for the best solutions, in addition to consensuals with professionals, which allowed all patients with the lowest possible risk to their health as well as those of the workers who provide the services both at the Monforte CAP and in hospital emergencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u168	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Aira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u169	Thank you. Counselor, you only told me generically and only told me about virtues, and I asked you about the precariousness of the facilities and how they're going to solve it. Of course, with the staff none of this is consensual; if they told him that, he was deceived. So far the only thing that was done to solve the situation was to double medical staff on Saturday morning. We don't know what motivated this, because there's a need all week and afternoon and night, not only on Saturday mornings, which caused half of the team to move to the Monforte Health Center, with which the patients complain because they're up and down and they don't know where to go. I mean, treatment has to be the same for all the people who come, it doesn't have to turn around more than another and it doesn't have to justify it. From BNG we consider this not to be a receipt and besides it's not something due to the safe harbor, because what's supposed to be more wear-out for the precarious health services of that district, before area, as you know. It's been cardiology, it's been a lot of things. The extension of the hospital is sufficient to house the CAP in worthy conditions, it would be a sign of respect for the population, but also for the staff. You are fully aware of the inability -- and subtle -- of the inability of the Monforte district to set up professionals; for something will be. The staff are clear that they don't take these conditions, and in fact there are several people who have already asked for a transfer. You get out of the district, with precariousness, especially optional staff, and this results in the precariousness of health care for the population. So far, as the facts show, there has been no serious commitment to providing the CAP with decent and safe facilities and we don't know if it's going to change from today on or it's going to continue exactly the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Aira. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u171	Thank you, President. Mrs. Aira, call me attention as you can twist and talk about a reorganization of circuits in a global pandemic and arrive at precariousness and even talk about the area and district. Look, I think you've done a right, repeat, consensual performance with the professionals, perhaps not as you told yourself about the problems you have now, which is of course respect, but you've agreed with the professionals, you've looked for a solution that, by the way, I think in my modest opinion that benefits the workers of the CAP, because in most of the CAP they've had to attend the respiratory circuit. At the Monforte CAP, the respiratory circuit responded to the hospital's emergencies, without this being either good or bad, simply being there. The working conditions of the CAP unfortunately with respect to other CAPs during the pandemic were improved. Obviously, when you adapt circuits to an exception like this, it's not all perfect, because if you were perfect, you wouldn't have to adapt them. If you tell me that the warders' dormitories have no emergency exit in case there's a fire, don't worry we'll review them and give them all the emergency exits that the guards' dormitories need. And if you tell me that Saturdays tomorrow strengthens the template, I don't know where the problem is, but we're also going to look at the dramatic consequences that make work in the Monforte CAP precarious and people run away from Monforte. I think it has to be a little serious, we have to value the opinions of professionals, I think we've been looking for in that CAP and in all the CAP and all the comarcas hospitals at the best solution to address something that has suddenly come to us. I repeat, I value the effort of the professionals to adapt to the situation, by the value of the work and the perception that the citizens have of that region, that at no time have caused any kind of problem for this attention, on the other hand, we were congratulated by the ordering of the Monforte emergencies, which, of course, went through very complicated moments during the pandemic. And I really think it's surprising that you now intend that a circuit organization in the CAP that, I repeat, went out quite frankly and improves the attention of the local patients to talk to me about the health area, about cardiology, I don't know what else. Look, the wager for the Monforte hospital is clear, 15 million euros in a master plan that's being executed right now. If we have a choice to improve some emergency issues, of course we'll improve them, but please be serious, we're talking about pandemics, circuits and patient and professional safety. Nothing else. [[Applause]] Question by Da María Encarnación Amigo Díaz and six other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the evaluation of the outcomes of the integrated care process for lateral amiotrophic sclerosis (ELA), launched in 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u172	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counsellor, today we have come to bring you a question about lateral amyotrophic sclerosis, a central nervous system disease characterized by progressive degeneration of brain cortex neurons, brain stem and marrow. This is about the third neurodegenerative disease in incidence after dementia and Parkinson's disease. This is, along with their variants, the disease of the most frequent motor neuron in adults. Now there is no possibility to offer a cure for the disease, but what we can offer the men and women who suffer from ELA is to try to improve their quality of life and accompany them in this hard process of adapting to that new reality and also to their families, through a model of care that becomes a paradigm of the quality of care they receive. The organization of single-act consultations in Galician hospitals, or the commitment to agitating treatment in the assessment of disability to patients with ALS so that their resolution is issued within a minimum period from the time of application are two examples of these new organizational designs. A disease that, in addition to the neurology service, is involved in other services, such as rehabilitation, physical therapists, speech therapists, occupational therapists or psychologists, who need coordination and effort from all professionals involved to achieve the best results. By the Galego Health Service, a great effort was made for the early diagnosis of this disease, both in the hospital and in the primary care area, and for the coordination that all these services involved in the treatment of these patients was possible. Galicia was the first autonomy of the eleven that signed the agreement to address the signed agreement between the Union through the health and social policy councils with the Francisco Luzon Foundation with a clinical and socio-assistanceal approach to obtain a better quality of life in patients with ALA. Today, as you said, Counsellor, since the People's Party Parliamentary Group, we are interested in knowing that the evaluation of the outcomes of the integrated care process for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis started in 2018. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u173	Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u174	Good morning, President; gentlemen. Mrs. Friend. In fact, Galicia was one of the first autonomous communities that over three years ago signed this partnership agreement with the Luzón Foundation and that the signing of that agreement followed an intense work both in the Health Council and in Social Policy to put in place several aspects. Basically the most prominent would be the launching of the integrated social process of lateral amiotrophic sclerosis, which was the first in Spain approved more than two years ago. Having this integrated care process, I assumed that I could have a socio-health route for the best integral care for patients affected by ELA, a disease without healing treatment, as you well said, enormously invalidating and with a very limited life expectancy. Among the objectives set out in the integrated and already met care process, one side was to define a clinical pathway of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in each health area that ensured that the person suspected of ELA had a first consultation in the neurology services for at least the following 15 days. In this case in Galicia we reduced in 45 days the two months recommended by the Ministry of Health for that. The maximum recommended time was also set for carrying out diagnostic tests in relation to the ALA that allowed to reduce the distress that is expected to be expected for such a diagnosis. Also, the adjudication of double A card for people with ELA offers preferential care within the Galician Health Service to these patients. And also the organization of the health system around the patient with ALS by establishing hospital consultations of single multidisciplinary act so that in one session you can move forward in diagnostic or treatment aspects. Galicia was also the first autonomous community in Spain to provide eye readers with the neurology services of our hospitals, in order to ensure the personal autonomy of patients by improving their communication. It must be borne in mind that, before the IAP was launched, the only hospital in Galicia with a single-act consultation for patients with ELA was the Santiago University Hospital Complex, the CHUS, so the implementation of the integrated process has brought about an improvement in the care that all the Greeks who suffer from this disease have in the face of any suspicion. In that line, we will continue to work, of course, in order to ensure better health care and a better quality of life for patients who suffer from this disease and, of course, also for their families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u175	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u176	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. It was fundamental, as you said, the start-up of that integrated care process that I put forward a great deal of progress towards improving the integral care of the people affected by ELA the first in our country, as you said. Processes such as the definition of this clinical pathway of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in each health area that ensures that people suspected of ALS contain with a first consultation in the neurology services early, organization of the service of that health system around the patients with ALS, establishing single-act hospital consultations or that establishment of maximum times or the adjudication of that A double-card for people with ALS by offering them preferential attention in the Galician Health Service to these patients. In addition to this good news that Galicia was again the first autonomous community throughout Spain to incorporate eye readers into neurology services in our hospitals in order to ensure the personal autonomy of patients by improving their coordination. They are all, undoubtedly, important improvements for patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis who will contribute exceptionally to improving the quality of life of these patients. Measures taken by a committed government, a responsible government with health care and, of course, people with a disease. On this second occasion, we would like you to give us an answer to how many readers are delivered, how many specific units or consultations of ELA are in our community. And finally, if you can tell us whether there are any lines of research already open in this sense for this pathology. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u178	Thank you very much. In fact, one of the most recent improvements and I also committed myself to this plenary at the beginning of the year was to make the patients of the eye readers available not to the neurology service in this case, but to their homes, in order to improve their quality of life and, of course, to facilitate communication around them. In order to carry out the purchase of the devices, an assessment of the needs in each territorial area was carried out by the health areas. The readers, having already been instructed to make provision effective, deliver these instructions to patients with neuromotor disorders in this severe case with severe impairment of both upper limbs and impossibility of oral communication or escitation. These are the indication criteria. Well, until now we've delivered four readers, to this day, and six are being evaluated by their respective health assessment committees, so a total of ten readers are now at the disposal of four and six readers, so Galicia has advanced in our commitment to ELA patients by putting all the resources available at its disposal. In fact, the Francisco Luzon Foundation has identified our autonomous community as one of the three in all Spain where it has a better model of attention. For this we also have three specific units of ELA in CHUAC, CHUS and Álvaro Cunqueiro, in addition to having a specific consultation of ELA in all health areas; therefore, seven specific units of ELA and three single multidisciplinary units of action, as we said before. In addition, we give specific psychological attention to people who suffer from this disease and we have a coordination protocol with social services and patient associations as well. Even so, since the publication of the PAI, responding to the question of research, an ELA research group was launched at the Santiago de Compostela Institute of Health Research in the IRIS; it is composed of more than 20 professionals, being one of the most numerous groups in Spain, along with those in Catalonia and Basque Country. So the implementation of the integrated care process has therefore put an important step forward in the attention of people with ELA, counting on the participation of patients and their families, who, together with their entities, will continue to mark the path towards a better quality of life for the Greeks who suffer from this disease. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u179	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral and two other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the German Government regarding the strengthening of the services of the Guard Health Centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u180	Good morning, Counselor. The public health of the Guard falls to pieces, and this one might think is just the imaginary term of a macabre metaphor because in the case of the Guard is the most dramaticly real term the neighborhood can bear. And it's certainly, in addition to a macabre metaphor, also an ironic macabre that is just this space where people go in search of health that becomes a risk by the abandonment of deterioration of a building that has been denounced to the Vigo Health Service for more than two years. But the problem, Mr. Comesaña, is that these eloquent images that we have just taught are but the reflection of a situation of public health of the Guard that goes far beyond. The Guard's health center is a health center that has eight recognized medical coupons but that these coupons have never been covered for a long time. Four doctors, half in the best of cases, three doctors, most of the time, are the reality with which they systematically find the neighborhood of the Guard seeking health care. But this situation is aggravated, Mr. Counsellor, by the case studies specific to the county of the Guard, a center that, by its own location, every time a doctor has to make a way out to meet an emergency, because it has a two-hour delay, the CAP also serves Oia and Rosal's council, as you know. A center that for its peripheral location with respect to the large nuclei of population because it is not a priority destination for many health professionals, it is a center, a municipality that during the summer triples its population. Counsellor, today, we have three of the eight doctors and seven of the nine nurses who are on staff; three doctors of eight, Mr. Counsellor, who had to attend yesterday 223 consultations. I repeat, Counsellor, 223 consultations, almost 75 medical consultations plus 33 emergencies. Is this a worthy situation for health care for the neighborhood of the Guard, Counsellor? And what is the role of the Galician Union in this situation? Announcing a reinforcement plan that in the best of the scenarios would provide the headquarters of 4 doctors, in a municipality that in summer -- we repeated -- triple its population. So, Counsellor, we, as you are doing the Guard's Public Health Defense Platform, have just come to ask you for solutions, to ask you not to review the RPT or the square meters, solutions. What are the solutions they put on the table to solve the problems of the Guard's citizenship, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u181	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u182	Thank you very much, President; gentlemen. Mr. Lourezo, the situation of the Guard doesn't escape anyone who's a bad situation, we're not going to say it's good, and I know it I think it's good. It's been like this for some time, and the truth is we can't get it to improve clearly. The Guard Square, as you well said, is a place that unfortunately is not well rated in the OPE; in the last OPE it was the last place to choose for the vacancies and in this OPE because it was also the last one. In any case, he is in a complicated situation throughout Galicia and throughout the state of lack of medical professionals, especially for recruitment. This center serves a population of 11,494 people, of whom 1,603 are in pediatric age. In addition, he works with the centre of Santa Maria de Oia, with the center of the Rosal, and the Guard Health Center itself as you said, has 8 optionals, and also has the CAP. At this moment, we have also concentrated that template, concentrated in the morning and we have both pediatricians also tomorrow, and above us we have the pediatrician of Oia, who is also concentrated there, as you well know. Well, as it becomes clear, what is planning, the template you call RPT, is well-sized for the situation and population of this municipality, but it's true that, for various reasons, we can name some: sick leave, maternity leave, paternity, lactation, and even professionals who take place in other autonomous communities recently and have to take possession of that square right there. We, from the Vigo Sanitary Area, and of course in the council, make every effort, for example, going to the question of a mouse, offering a continuity contract, offering a contract of up to 3 years in the Guard with a salary of 60,000 euros, and unfortunately we didn't get that any optional glue. So, we have to keep pulling the OPE, the adjudication process has just occurred, I can bring you forward, and of course to the Guard population that in the next few days, or on days 14 and 15, at least 3 more optionals will be incorporated into the Guard, with which we would switch to those 8 square 6 covered; 1 is still in IT, but it's going to be covered, as if they're covering for sure -- that this never says to you -- the absence of staff, we have several mechanisms for covering them. First, recruitment lists, and when there is no recourse to other mechanisms; in this case we add the continuity contract, which we also have no one who has occupied it, and therefore resorts to the inter-replacement and prolongation of the day. I want here to highlight and thank you, because no one does, the role of doctors who, in addition to doing their shift, are later paid but then are left to cover the absences of fellows. In that case, those two remaining squares to cover the eight will be covered in this case by the team itself and, in other cases, by extensions. So the good news is that in the next few days we believe that the situation will substantially improve, once the incorporation of the OPE has been completed, from which by course of the three parasites that went out to the Guard only one has been covered and two have demanded surplus and reconciliation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u183	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u184	We really, Counselor, thank you for a description of the situation, to which you have given much of your intervention, what happens is that from a Health Counsellor what is expected is solutions, not descriptions of this situation. And simply, Counselor, perhaps having applied a policy of strengthening primary care rather than reducing it to the slightest expression, the system would better tolerate the impact of the pandemic. Maybe even the system users wouldn't have to wait 15-20 days for an appointment. Maybe there wouldn't be so many people explaining their problem every day to a different face. Perhaps the peripheral or rural populations, such as the Guard, especially damaged, would not be seen. This, Counselor, is not something this BNG spokesperson says; this is something that they are publicly denouncing the optionals of the Guard Health Center. So it's very good that you thank your work here, the question that we all do, what happens is that what these optionals expect is not that you come here to thank you, is that you implement solutions for an absolutely limited situation. [[Applause]] So you said in an earlier intervention that they valued the opinions of health professionals. Take your glove, Counselor, value the attention of these health professionals and bring solutions that go beyond a patch where you come here saying that, at best possible scenarios for this summer, we would have 6 of the 8 professionals that we have in our template. And the question we make ourselves seems obvious. Here the People's Party has been ruling in this country for 28 of the last 31 years, until yesterday they were also ruling in the Government of the State, and the responsibility for what is happening in public health is always others, Counsellor? They assume responsibility. The state of public health of the Guard is absolutely limited, and requires immediate and silent solutions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u185	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u186	Thank you very much, President. Well, I think I started by apologizing to the Guard's citizenship for the situation that the health center is experiencing, is a situation, I repeat, which is neither this year nor two years ago, is an endemic situation and, I repeat, associated with the problem not of the Guard, but of all Galician and all the state, by the absence of professionals in this case of primary care. I'm not talking about patches, I'm talking about an OPE that has just incorporated three people in theory into this square, of which two have resigned, and I can't, a person who takes a square in an OPE, who makes a great effort, as I said before, to summon and tame it, and I can't make people who don't want to be in the Guard, despite taking the square, stay there. So Sergas put all the mechanisms at his disposal to try to secure with stability the squares in the Guard, but it's not possible, because he's not 100% in our hand, at least as far as a person is concerned that he takes the square in the Guard and asks for surpluses or of course exercises his freedom to ask for reconciliation. However, we continue to work and we will continue to work to offer, I said a moment ago, a contract of 60,000 euros a year, with two guards in the CAP, and it's available to anyone who wants to take it to the Guard. You can also say that if no one takes it, it's also our fault. Well, it's probably our fault too, I'm not saying no, but we'll keep trying. We'll keep trying to get somebody, some more professional to look at the Guard, and instead of six, it's the 8 that's in the template, because it's structural template and it's there. However, I repeat, we are making every effort to get these slots left, because nothing for minor things, also the fault of the Board, the IT, the paternity permit, because they are covered in this case with other professionals who voluntarily cover these hours of assistance. In any case, I repeat, this is a situation that is common to the whole area and, I repeat, that area, as you well said, is an area that is of difficult attraction to professionals; to professionals for various reasons it costs them to take squares there. In fact, as I have just said, a plaza on property renounces its occupation; and therefore, the Galician Health Service will continue to do everything necessary to equip these squares and that the 8 plazas that are in template may be equipped and the citizens of the Guard in this case and also those who can come in summer. In any case, and speaking of summer, that this is very mild, even though the population increases and triples, or if it is quintuple or the numbers you want, in summer, look at you, the patients in summer in the van of the health center, go to the CAP. For the Guard's CAP is perfectly equipped, yes, yes, say you, but it's perfectly equipped to attend to the average attention and summer peaks in the Guard. Obviously, when there are two emergencies and patients need to be transferred to the Cunqueiro Alvaro in this case, there's a moment when the CAP can be discovered, so we have a doctor in the afternoon to be able to take care of that. But the increase in population is referring to extraordinary care, not the ordinary health centres, which, I repeat, doesn't mean it's good. I just recognized that it's not good, that it's better and we keep working on it, but we don't mix in triple the population in the summer with ordinary attention at the CAP. I repeat, we continue to work with Vigo's health area to make this situation better and the citizens have the best attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u187	Thank you. Let's resume the agenda. Question by Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonso of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the policy of the German Government in relation to the automotive sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u188	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Among Galicia's productive sectors, automobiles occupy a very prominent place in virtually any way, by the number of companies, by the volume of employment, by the volume of exports, by their technological level, by the increased value of their operations, etc. In a general view, the automotive sector represented in the years prior to the pandemic, between 15% and 12% of the German GDP. During 2020, the sector hit the billing record, exceeding €10,000 million, 7.3% more than in 2019, and also increased vehicle exports by 16%, a sector representing 35% of Galician exports and occupied, during 2020, 25,000 people. A sector, therefore, strategic for our economy from any point of view, which in addition to being affected by profound changes that are common to the whole sector worldwide, such as so-called energy and digital transitions, in the particular case of our country, the sector has a particular characteristic of particular relevance, which is its total dependence on a single manufacturer, the PSA-Citroën group today Stellantis. It is true that around this manufacturer there is a whole network of companies, components and auxiliaries that, although they have other customers, even though they work to some extent for other factories, in some cases outside the Spanish state, their dependence on Stellantis is radical. The most obvious test is how it increases employment in all of them when it increases occupation in Stellantis, and vice versa, as a stop and an ERTE in Stellantis implies immediately stopped and ERTE across the entire network of supply and auxiliary companies. Today, ERTS are caused by a problem in the supply chain, specifically because of the global shortage of semiconductors, essential microchips for the manufacture of electronic products, produced almost exclusively in the Asian countries China, Taiwan and Korea, a global problem, which has affected all manufacturers, although in other European countries ERTE has not been applied. But there was also ERTE in December 2018 and throughout 2019 in PSA-Citroën, and then the lack of occupation did not have a global cause, but it was exclusively attributable to PSA's own management, to its internal dynamics, to its decisions on the distribution and adjudication of vehicles between the different factories and its plans to industrialize models. What we want to highlight, Mr. Vice-President, is that there are too many eggs in a single basket. A basket, as I said, is subject to deep pressure, such as energy and digital changes, problems in the supply chains of critical parts for production, as well as internal decisions on industrial planning of an increasingly large company's management, with more brands and more productive centers in more territories. In the BNG we have made it clear that the defence and consolidation of the automotive sector must be a priority of the German Government, the defence and consolidation of industrial activity and employment. That's why BNG has been demanding actions to diversify the sector for many years, to introduce new manufacturers and new activities. Today, with the decarbonization of mobility and the energy transition, we need more than ever from a government that cares about leading and protecting these processes in the sector, that we are concerned about ensuring that Galicia does not stay behind, that we are concerned about promoting diversification and that we are concerned about securing the supply chain. In short, there is concern about consolidating the sector and employment. But what we see, in order not to vary, is that the People's Party Board lacks a plan in this regard. It lacks initiative and foresight and remains simply a critical commentator of the political current. The last time we were able to check the junior role of the Union, in a matter of particular importance to the sector and to Galicia, took place on the occasion of the announcement made by the Spanish Government of its participation in a project to install in Barcelona what was announced as the first battery factory in the Spanish state. The Volkswagen group, which plans to install four battery factories in Europe -- it already has two running in Germany and Sweden -- one of these four will be installed in some southern European countries. The Government of the Spanish State -- in an acceleration, by the way, that will pass into history -- announced that this factory will be installed in Barcelona by the hand of a mixed initiative in which, in addition to the German group, the Spanish Government itself, Iberdrola and Telephonic, and left open the possibility for more partners to join. Shortly thereafter from Volkswagen, they shaded the announcement saying that the plant situation was not decided. They insisted that it would be somewhere in southern Europe letting them see that they would make the decision on the terms they offered. This project, specifically the fact that it was announced by the Government of Spain, also announcing its direct participation and commitment from European funds to its development, has led to a small revolution by governments of all autonomous communities that have manufacturers in their territory, including Galicia. But the position and demand of each of these autonomous communities is very different in this career from having a battery factory. In Aragon, for example, they demand Zaragoza to install this battery factory; they value the fact that they have a large Opel factory and its geographic situation halfway between the factories of other manufacturers in Euskadi, Nafarroa, Cataluña, Valencia, Madrid, Valladolid... only away from the Vigo factory. In Valencia they had a mature project they had been working on for two years with a technology partner, Power Electronics, and a manufacturer like Ford, a project that has received support demonstrations from some ministry and what they say would be compatible with the Barcelona plant. In Extremadura, where they have one of Europe's largest lithium reserves, they've been working on a project that involves the exploitation of these mining resources and the installation of two factories, one in Caceres and another in Badajoz, projects that would go beyond the manufacture of automobile batteries, including energy storage and network management systems. These projects already have several partners who are looking for funding on the edge of the Next Generation funds. By the way, in some publications they actually say that this project will be included in the same PERT as the project participated in by the Government of Spain with Volkswagen. In Euskadi, the Industry Adviser, in response to a question from the People's Party Parliamentary Group, explained that the Basquevolt project for a battery factory in Victoria has an budget of 707 million euros, of which 375 would come from European funds to support innovation, 276 from the private initiative, 20 from the Spanish Government and 8 from the Basque Government. Private partners include the energy tank, the Basque Government itself, Iberdrola, Petronor, Enagas, MCC, Irize, Ingetin, Ormazabal, Cie Automotive and Solarpack. In other words, in Euskadi, in Valencia or in Extremes, they don't compete with the government-led factory for Barcelona, they have their own more or less mature projects, more or less dependent on European funds, but all of them with the possibility of going out ahead, especially that of Euskadi, which already has budgets of firm commitments. The contrast to all these moves is Galician Unity. In Galicia we have no project, there was no one who had something going on, something drawn up like -- I insist -- in Extremadura, Valencia or Euskadi. The automotive sector could not be an exception to the lack of industrial policy, lack of initiative and lack of foresight from the People's Party's Union which seems to be determined to make Galicia a eucalyptal truffled with windmills. What we had -- that's yes -- were angry reactions to the announcement by the Spanish Government of the project to Barcelona; we saw you, Mr. Vice-President, tearing your clothes off because of lack of transparency and the fact that the Government had made a decision without counting on the autonomous communities without a public summons to be able to compete on equal terms. That's right, at an own-initiative hearing he also announced that the Union would support any project to install a factory in Galicia. We also had the reaction of the mayor of Vigo who from one day to another presented a battery factory project with the Free Zone and which would be located in PLSAN but which curiously does not count on the support of PSA Citroën, today Stellantis, a lack of interest on the part of Stellantis who explains to a large extent -- but not exclusively -- the lack of foresight and initiative of the Board of Galicia, which has always behaved, in terms of the automotive sector, as a faithful server of PSA Citroën designs without more pretensions or more concerns. And Stellantis' lack of interest in a battery factory in Vigo has to do with what he already has a plan to provide for batteries. PSA constituted a joint venture with the company Saab, a battery manufacturer owned by the French oil company Total before his merger with Fiat Chrysler. The name of this company, Automotive Cells Company, will install two battery factories, one in the French town of Doveren and one in the German town of Kaiserslautern, although they will previously set up a pilot plant in Nersac, also in France, where they are expected to work 200 people. Finally, Mr Vice-President, the disturbing economic data of the sector during the year 2020 cannot conceal the excessive dependence of a single actor under a lot of pressure, so we could be faced with very circumstantial successes. We need a strong plan from the Government of Greece to ensure that the transformations of the sector translate into consolidation of activity and employment, beginning with diversification of actors and activities. We need dialogue between all the actors concerned and plans with economic allocation. Mr Vice-President, since the BNG we want to take advantage of this call for active and determined behaviour towards the automotive sector in this energy and digital transition context. We call on the Government of Greece to deal with the transformation of the sector and the consolidation of industrial activity and employment. Abandon that subordinate role where it is installed, exclusively for the service of Citroën, raise the eye, assume that the sector has weaknesses and put in place plans to overcome them. In other words, they do industrial politics and exercise their powers. Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u189	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Fernández and ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wanted to bring my apologies to this Parliament for changing the agenda, which I had to ask for this change on my own grounds. And, therefore, move your apologies and at the same time thank you for your acceptance and that flexibility will be transferred. Mr. Fernández, in fact, you have moved me to your intervention, driving is one of the economic sectors in which Galicia is a reference. I don't know if you like the Galician Nationalist Block or not, that didn't make it clear to me in your intervention. But if it is true that it is a sector that has had a very difficult year in 2020, it has shown not only extraordinary resistance, but also its competitive capacity. It gave direct employment to nearly 25,000 workers and workers, the business figure for the first time exceeded the threshold of €10,000 million, increasing 7.3% compared to the year 2019. Exports also marked a historical milestone of about 7.300 million euros, 16% more than in the previous year. And the investments linked to the launch of new products reached a figure of EUR 137 million, and if you add the more than EUR 1,100 million of previous years, 2015-2019, we would be talking about an investment of about EUR 1,250 million. There are very few territories, Mr Fernández, in Europe that can believe some figures on this level. In fact, last year Galicia produced nearly 1 out of every 4 vehicles that occur in Spain, 22.2%; more than 30% of our exports come from the automotive sector; and 14.3% of our industrial employment is in the automotive sector. Through, indeed, Stellantis that you once again want to question their bond with our territory. The fourth worldwide automotive group, accompanied by nearly 200 companies of components and services that integrate Ceaga, a cluster that is located in the European level reference within the clusters of the European automotive industry, accredited with the Gold Label for its professionalism and excellence. Surely, Mr. Fernández, the Galician Nationalist Block will think that this data is a coincidence, but that's not the case in advance. This data is a fruit of the public-private collaboration that you constantly reject, the existence of a private, solid and mature sector technologically speaking, an innovative sector and a sector that differs from Galicia by its talent. But also, Mr. Fernández, thanks to a public administration, the Galician Union, which is working with the sector through not only from the legislative agenda, but also from the various aids, and which is allowing this sector to become more solid, more resilient and a private sector that you reject permanently. The truth is, I'm surprised at your incoherence within your speech, and you should probably explain very well why you question and want to put those uncertainties about the close to 200 companies that are currently composing the automotive sector and knowing exactly what your proposal is, to see if your proposal is precisely that Stellantis stop manufacturing cars in Galicia. That's probably the doubt you'll be able to clarify in your reply. The Galician Nationalist Block has shown that it's a party that permanently stops everything that means moving forward and everything that means making a bet for employment, especially industrial employment. I remind you, Mr Fernández, of the automotive sector that the Nationalist Block Galego did not support the change of the land law that allowed the expansion of the Vigo plant. I remind you that the Galician Nationalist Bloc has not supported the agreement not to demonize the diesel and to push the automotive industry agenda to precisely consolidate its competitiveness and sustainability. I remind you that the Galician Nationalist Block did not approve the proposal to encourage replacement of vehicles over 10 years of age for other low-emissions. And I remind you, Mr. Fernández, that the Galician Nationalist Block is not supporting the Galician Union in the aid that has been contributing to the growth and innovation of the sector since 2009. He knows that the Galician Union has invested more than 200 million euros in the automotive sector, so it's surprising that you say that the Galician Union lacks foresight and lack of initiative. It is likely that the training programmes that are currently allowing the sector to adapt its technological processes will seem to you by chance. You'd probably be surprised how these aids are allowing to mobilize investments in companies as relevant as DENSO, as ALUDEC or as Snop Printing, at the same time as we were able to get Benteller to develop a new plant in Mos. It should also surprise you as close to 100 million euros through the Galician Innovation Agency are allowing business R & D programs to be developed in Galicia right now through the Smart and Sustainable Factory Program, also accompanying the joint innovation units. You probably don't know that big multinationals like Stellantis, like Copo, like Benteller, like GKN, like BorgWarner, like Akwel, like Magna are betting on Galicia to develop their R & D investments. I understand, Mr. Fernández, that since his nationalist vision it seems bad to you that these big companies are betting on Galicia, they are generating jobs and allowing the consolidation of the sector. But the truth is that Galicia has been able to capture two new models on the PSA Vigo plant precisely by its competitive capacity, by its planning. And you should know that at this time EUR 145 million has been invested in the Vigo plant precisely to advance towards the 4.0 industry model. And now, Mr Fernández, you are developing EUR 22 million of investment to place Stellantis in the vanguard of the vehicle of the future autonomous connected and environmentally friendly. You probably also don't know or just want to hide how, through collaboration with CTAG and AIMEN, the sector is investigating sustainable mobility systems, application of artificial intelligence in the manufacture or monitoring of the inside of the vehicle. A whole series of aids, Mr Fernández, which are actually allowing the automotive sector to have the figures you have just mentioned. And you should know that this Government is supporting the sector in the context of the European Funds Next Generation with the Auto Anchora project, a project that comes from the sector, from the private initiative, with an investment of 1,300 million euros, and that the Galician Union is collaborating with CEAGA, with Stellantis and the entire component industry just to be able to capture new investments, develop innovation projects and get the automotive sector in Galicia to have a more digital, greener and more resilient value chain. And you tell me about the battery plant. You know perfectly well that the problem of the battery plant situation is a problem that causes the Government of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, supported -- I remind you too -- by the Galego Nationalist Block, which acted hastily in March precisely by compromising European funds in Catalonia through a specific call for aid without having any competitive competition. And you should know that, thanks to the Galician Union, precisely, this injustice was corrected and that therefore the Government had to rectify and, therefore, commit an PERTE so that there would be competition and therefore there would not be a digital distribution from the territorial point of view that the Galician Nationalist Block was supporting. Finally, at the Galician Summit we are the first to maintain a permanent dialogue with the automotive industry represented by the CEAGA cluster, the CTAG technology centre and, of course, Stellantis as well. And we are the first ones who are defending the need to support the Welsh automotive industry, accompanying it in those projects that allow us to demonstrate its viability and that meet the real transformation needs of the sector. If I may, Mr Fernández, surely the Galego Nationalist Block should also rectify and should do the same and abandon the boycott to the Galician industry, and therefore support the strategic sectors of our economy with the various measures that are being pushed by the Galician Union in collaboration, as I told you, with the sector itself, through public-private collaboration. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u191	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u192	Thank you again, Mr President. Well, it seems that the only thing we agree with is indeed the importance of the sector. Let's see if he does something about the sector. The Spanish State is the second largest vehicle manufacturer at European level. And within the Spanish state, Galicia's role has always been highlighted, it's not now. That's why it's not understood that, while Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Sweden and many other European states already have plans to cope with model change in the sector and concrete projects in progress to produce, for example, electric batteries, but also to experiment with hydrogen as an energy vector in automobiles, the Government of Greece is simply waiting for it to be sent and candles come flatly to say that it will support any project that wants to be installed in Galicia. You certainly subsidize all the projects the sector presents to you, but that's not the same as having a plan. But in addition to the governments of the great European states, too, as I said before, within the Spanish State, there are those who take steps to be at the forefront of the transformation of the automotive sector without waiting for anyone. Here are the cases of Euskadi, Valencia or Extreme. But from the German point of view we must also mention the Portuguese case, one country, one territory, especially the northern region, which has been able to increase the presence of automotive companies that absorb in many cases the production that was done before or could be done in Galicia; one country, Portugal, which seems to have a clear, decisive and effective industrial policy, which shows one of the major weaknesses and risks of the sector that Junta has never managed to correct: the continued relocation of companies and production. Today is the case with BorgWarner, but they are very well known. In which is the excellence of the Galician Union, it is in itself that the left hand doesn't know what the right hand does. I am referring to the labour problems and the massive precariousness of the automotive sector in our country and to the fact that the Galician Union has not only industrial competences but also labour authority. You, as I said, subsidise the automotive sector certainly in abundance, but that investment, those public resources that we have paid among all and not only cannot change or correct the historic weaknesses of the sector, such as relocations, but it lacks the necessary follow-up plan, the necessary control that will have the impact of these subsidies on employment. Mr. Junta couldn't guarantee, you Vice-President, today he couldn't guarantee that our public resources, that the subsidies we make available to the sector, are not being used to finance business costs without any impact on employment in Galicia. Or even worse, you couldn't guarantee here today that our public resources aren't generating jobs in Portugal or France. And he can't guarantee it, say what he says, because he lacks, as he said, a plan or a method to track down the impact of those subsidies on employment. They prefer not to know, and meanwhile precariousness advances in the sector at the very rhythms of the production chain. They call it flexibility, but it's precarious. What opinion does the Galician Board deserve that more than half of the PSA-Citroën company contracts be part-time? More than half the contracts of the 7,200 people working in the main company are part-time. It is absolutely unusual in the industrial sector, Mr Vice-President. Do you have anything to say to Galician Union? Do you know that most of these people -- I insist, part-time hires -- actually do full days? Do you know how this bias affects holidays, permits, medical leave or unemployment benefit? Do you know what situation these people are in when the company applies an ERTE? Do you know the Galician Union that people's working hours in this sector are easily changed, how long will the staff be notified in their assignment or decommissioned the ERTE? Do you know the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that condemns Citroën as warning with a minimum of 5 days? Do you know that the current ERTEs continue without giving that minimum warning? Do you know that one of the main labour problems in the sector is business practices aimed at preventing the application of the provincial metal convention? We would like to hear from the Galician Union that it is concerned and that it has a report, for example, on a very sensitive matter, such as the employment of staff with disabilities, because there are solid indications that the use of special employment centres in the automotive sector is being used fraudulently. Similarly, we would like to hear that there is concern and reports on this other important problem, such as the provision of international services. I mean, about the staff situation, especially from Portugal, that crosses the border every day to work in the sector. We know that in many cases they are not being applied to the regulations corresponding to the workplace. At the BNG we see clearly that the Galician Union must have a much greater presence and involvement in the sector. The Greek Government must work and plan strategically, focused on diversifying the sector to avoid that excessive dependence on a single manufacturer, focusing on putting forward problems that will surely result from technological changes and globalized supply chains, and focusing on promoting decent working conditions. Today, Mr. Vice-President, most people in the sector have several clear things. On the one hand, that the future of the sector is in the air and that the Galician Union is neither expected nor expected. And on the other hand, the wage conditions of day-to-day and conciliation are getting worse and worse. Plan, involunte, follow up on the impact subsidies also have on employment and, above all, promote policies and instruments that can mean a competitive advantage, which can consolidate the sector. For example, voices are becoming more frequent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u194	...out of nationalism that assumes and shares our claim of a Welsh electric tariff. It would undoubtedly be a decisive factor for the entire industrial sector in general and for the automotive sector in particular. We'll take advantage of our resources for our own benefit, to generate industrial activity and quality employment in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u195	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u196	Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u197	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure of the inquiry, second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Fernández, indeed, we have a completely different economic model between the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. You come here to defend a centralized economy, a centralized planning economy. We do not, we defend a private-initiative economy based precisely on public-private collaboration and therefore on how we can collaborate between the administration and the private sector to strengthen the competitiveness of our productive sector. That's why I don't think you're objective when you try to hide the success of the automotive sector in Galicia. And you should recognize how this public-private collaboration, that joint work between the Administration, the Galician Union and the private sector has allowed the Stellantis Group to be developing two new models at the Vigo factory: the 2008 model and the vans; and how the Stellantis Group is hitting records of production and productivity and competitiveness in the group. You speak of improvisation of the Government. Galicia has an automobile plan. You probably don't know him because he doesn't care what he thinks and what he moves the sector. Galicia has a V Strategic Plan for the competitive improvement of the Galician automotive sector, precisely driven by the sector itself. And the Galician Union is collaborating in the development of that strategic plan and that's why we're supporting the different investments. In the field of innovation, I would like you to make a comparison and find yourself as Galicia is leading support for the development of enterprise R & D through the Smart Factory program; as this enabled the development of the van in the Stellantis group; and as today it is allowing the Project to make 4.0, with an investment of 22 million euros, to obtain new technological solutions that allow the Vigella factory to consolidate itself as a global benchmark in energy efficiency and in the vehicle of the self-sustained future and connected. I'm surprised that lack of recognition of the private sector. Just as, if I may, I should know that the Galician Union is supporting the development of the electric vehicle within the vans with an agreement, indeed, between the Galician Union and the Stellantis group for an amount of EUR 4 million. We are responding, Mr Fernández, to the needs of the sector itself. I'm surprised you're talking about energy policy and not referring to the need for the Stellantis group and the driving industry in Galicia with Vigo's connection to the 220 kilowatt transport network. I am very surprised that such a priority infrastructure is not on the agenda of the Galego Nationalist Block to defend the competitiveness of the Balados plant and the rest of the city and its area of influence; and, therefore, that it is not supporting the Galician Union to recover that project in power grid planning for the period 2021-2026. If it's true that we agree that Spain is late for the development of the battery plant, we've been warning it for a long time. The Galician Union offered to the Government to form part of any public-private consortium for the development of a battery plant in Galicia. And, as I moved you, it's the Government of the Socialist Party and Podemos, supported by the Galego Nationalist Block, which, through its precipitation, is questioning the participation and equal opportunities among all manufacturers in Spain; and should concern you about the situation of the sector in the face of processes that can be developed. Mr. Fernández, I sincerely believe that the Galician Nationalist Block should be proud of the automotive sector in Galicia and should avoid constantly questioning the development, planning and, above all, the bet on the sector precisely because of its competitiveness, its sustainability and, above all, the development of the car of the future. The Galician Union is aware of these needs, we will continue to support the continued opposition of the Galician Nationalist Block to the automotive sector, a strategic sector for Galicia, so that we remain a reference and a vanguard not only technological but also in the field of innovation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u199	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Question by Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and three other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Galician Union on the wind sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, Mr. Vice President. We hope that the circumstances that have taken a while will not be irresoluble. In any case, since you weren't in the control session today, I wanted to start by showing you one of the photographs that your Mr. President didn't want to look at. I see you don't either, but as the ears can't cover them, I'm going to describe what's on this picture. [[Applause]] There is an exercise of dignity, an exercise that demonstrates the dignity of this country. A country that is older, who knows what he wants and knows that he wants wind, but he doesn't want wind like that and that he has objected to this model of the People's Party, predatory, out of control and to the service of foreign interests, this Saturday in Santiago de Compostela. And, I insist, it wasn't a cry against wind energy, it wasn't manipulated, it was a cry against its energy policy, Mr. Conde, against the energy policy of the People's Party, based on taxation and policy. This Saturday there was this social cry in the streets of Compostela, but before it was seen at other points in our territory, in other mobilizations and actions demanding the greenhouse of Groba, of Sweden, the area of the Costa da Morte, the Ten, Lalin, and the area of the Courel, the area of the central mass, throughout the country there is a cry demanding another wind model and claiming respect for this country, dialogue and planning. And, in the face of these demands, what do you do, what does the People's Party do? Well, basically what he does is he despises this country and despises this people. You are trying to caricaturize this answer precisely because you know that it is a powerful answer, that there are arguments and that it is broad, that there are arguments of such weight and objectivity that some are even seen in judgments of justice like that of Sasdonigas or Iribio. But you're trying to look the other way. But they're not doing well, because they know that this opposition is down in the territory that also has it in social and neighboring organizations, mountain communities and even municipalities. That's why there is also a multiplication of positions, allegations and motions of municipalities of all colors, also of the colors of the People's Party. That's what explains that you too, as a advisers of the People's Party, have to be traveling along the territory to appease this municipal challenge. You've now become the second vice president of Economics, Enterprise, and we could say that even mayor calmer, as well as one of your functions. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And look at what we're living in: your law, your law of 2009 in the wind sector, you weren't a counselor, but you were already there as an advisor to Mr. Feijóo, it's already nine changes. Nine changes during this time, one of the most recent in February this year, in this Parliament, disguised as an administrative simplification law, which was essentially a new law in the wind sector, and look at what they put into that law, chiringuits and you have them for being. And, curiously, they're now announcing a new one that wasn't going into that simplification law, which in theory already had all the measures on the planet to be the most transparent and objective. Now it wasn't enough for that transparency, so they pulled that provincial information network out of their sleeve to the mayors, who at least is a little weird, not to call it otherwise. Now the Board will inform beforehand, we don't know if only the mayors of their rope or everyone, of the projects that will be processed, before public exposure goes; the mayors, we don't know whether the opposition groups of these councils, we understand that not the neighborhood of those municipalities, nor mountain communities, etc., but the mayors. Rather, this, Mr. Count, for it seems to be going to find the way to companies instead of doing public service. We see that, in the face of such a huge problem as what you are having in the territory, the answer is PP is there, standing aside from the electric oligopolie instead of the side of the defence of the interests of this country. In any case, the important thing is that they know they have a problem, they know they have to rectify; so the question that today the Nationalist Block of Wales is: how will Galician Union push a change of this wind model? -- the subconscious is already gone, because lately the truth is there is no day when the DOG doesn't give a new scare --. What are you going to do to promote a model that is fair, that it is German, that it is sustainable? [[Applause]] That alternative wind model that's defending our country's neighbours and neighbours in multiple territories. Of course, for the Galician Nationalist Block it is urgent that they do so; the sooner they rectify, the better it will be for us as a country, because they are about to make many mistakes that will not be insurmountable. And we, of course, appeal to that other wind model that is possible, which is possible under three principles that I would like to explain: planning, defending the Greek interests and also public participation. First of all, planning. We must once again insist on this House that a new sectoral wind plan is needed to order chaos, to enable new areas of exclusion and new areas of wind development, taking into account the reality and technology of the year 2021. And, look, just two examples: a few weeks ago the new president of Adega defined his wind politics as deplanetization; also a few weeks ago, the president of the Greek wind bosses had defined this as the jungle. You did, I'm putting statements from the employer, statements from the basic ecologicalist movement of this country, that we could first understand that they have priorities or concerns that in some cases may be different, but they're at work in a part of the diagnosis that is even common, so this makes sense of the dimension of this problem. In any case, I insist, in addition to planning, a second piar has to be the defense of the Greek interests. It's really amazing the show of bad comedy that we're watching in the last few weeks; suddenly, the Galician Union discovered that parks of more than 50 megawatts are state-run and still haven't agreed to defend the Welsh sovereignty in this area but put on the green shirt, the green jacket and try to make us think that suddenly they have a great concern, and they're going to ask the state to do what they're not doing in Galicia; that is, they respect the sectoral wind plan that they by law passed in this Parliament a few months ago, they decided that they were jumping through the air and that if the Board of Unity decides with random criteria a project can go out of the sectoral wind plan, and they also decide to ask the State to save the Natura Network. I, of course, support you in this request, Mr. Count, but I also ask you to apply the story. In any case, there's a problem, which is Madrid and not Galicia who decides about these parks over 50 megawatts. So we propose an agreement: we demand the paralysis of these projects, but we also demand political power for this country, because this distraction maneuver that they're trying to do with these parks so people don't mobilize and put on that green suit doesn't even have the slightest credibility. And finally, in addition to insisting on planning, insisting on the need for defence of the Greek interests, I would like to insist on a final idea of the many problems that are happening and of what we understand has to be output and rectification, which is the bet on participation and public control. A few minutes ago you were talking from this rostrum that we've been defending a centralized economy since BNG. Look, we're defending ourselves is centralizing ourselves in the interests of this country, not in which decisions are centralized from the board of directors of the companies to which he then goes some ex-counsel or ex-counsel of his government. And, of course, that has to bet on public participation and control, of course, because the great industrial problems in this are precisely because the model has been abandoned and because everything that is a strategic economic sector has to be a public good in private hands. And, of course, a new Greek wind model has to go through reverse this issue; and for that we have made it clear that it is one of the serious problems of this boom that we are living and that it is designed and managed by large companies and that the economic return to Galicia is minimal, it is minimal. I put data back on this table, the Greek wind observatory makes an estimate that around 5% of the total multimillionaire billing is what comes to the Greek municipalities. If we talk about owners and owners, less than 3%. So, what's Galicia doing? For companies to relocate, jobs to other countries, etc. And yesterday, speaking of this issue, and that the model that drives you is also an economic problem, because you have to break that myth, a voicer from your group said that you had to have the courage to come here and set the example of Muras. And I'm going to do it again, I'm going to set the example of Muras, I can do it because, of course, I'm from the BNG and the Wall Town Hall now is from the BNG and the BNG Town Hall has done what the People's Party has not done, which is looking for ways, expressing the current institutional framework, so that energy had a return to its population, and I can assume here and I do it, of course, because we did that possible. But precisely the example of Walls shows us as a municipality with nearly 400 air carriers has an insufficient economic return. And I'm going to have you speak for me today here precisely our mayor, of which we are proud and proud, who wrote this same month in the magazine Lights the following reflection. I'm going to synthesize: Some envy the revenues that we perceive with the mills and believe we're a rich council, but the numbers that need to be analyzed are these: 381 aerogeors, the net profit of each of them can be between 80 and 100,000 euros a year. All we have to do is make accounts, in Galicia there are 4,000, and the bill of light in recent years has increased by almost 80%. So the economic situation in which we find ourselves -- summarize -- is bad, in Galicia and specifically in our region; it mentions the situation of Endesa and Alcoa in the loose rope. And he claims that the new wind boom should be considered, guided with another perspective, because it's not all that's clocking gold. The mermaids promising local jobs are false, because direct jobs are almost non-existent. Net profits do not belong either in the locality or in the country, create wealth that does not remain in the territory and march towards investment funds and tax havens at the speed of light as the landscape heritage becomes impoverished. We have to rethink Galicia's desire, that industrial design is better for our country and how we plan the economy. So, Mr. Conde, I'm finished now, what are you going to do for us to think that Galicia we want, so that we have a Galician model in which through a fair wind model, which is German and which is sustainable, we have a future, based on planning, on defending the interests of Galicia and returning energy as a public sector to the service of this country? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, indeed our economic model, our wind model is different. We believe in industry, we believe in the company, and above all we believe in public-private collaboration in the development of the industrial and economic sectors, and that evaluates the data of our productive fabric, where they work in the private sector more than 652,000 people, and of them 189,500 in the industrial sector. That's our model, it's true, and the Galician Nationalist Block simply rejects it, because, as I told Mr. Fernández, you prefer servitude to freedom. In any case, I refer to facts and data, the Galician Nationalist Block is constantly boycotting Galician industry and economic development. They're boycotting biofuels, like a continuity solution for the bridge power plant. The Galego Nationalist Block boycotts Reganosa permanently and its bet on biogas. Boycottean Ence, to the forest sector as a tractor of circular bioeconomics. They also boycott sustainable mining and renewable energies. There is a permanent boycott of the Galician Nationalist Block to the two most important industrial systems we have in the community: the textile industry and the automotive industry. We just saw him in this same gallery with Mr. Fernández's intervention. Finally, the Galician Nationalist Block has a permanent boycott to industrial Galicia and has a permanent boycott to wind just for a purely ideological matter. It is true that the Galician Union has a firm commitment to making economic activity and employment compatible with the protection of the natural heritage and the environment model, and bothers them, that the People's Party strongly defends the compatibility between economic activity and the environment. There's a commitment to the orderly development of wind energy. I would like, Mrs. Presas, to have told me one case of a wind farm in Galicia that is developing outside the sector plan. He knows perfectly well that the wind model in Galicia offers all guarantees from a technical, legal and environmental point of view. They know perfectly well that in Galicia the same environmental legislation is being applied as in the rest of Spain, because we are applying State Law 21/2013, and they know perfectly well that all wind projects, project to project, are subject to an ordinary environmental assessment, which is the most guaranteed in accordance with the applicable environmental assessment legislation. I don't know why it bothers them to be transferred by the Galician Union to the Socialist Party and the Transitional Ministry that ceases to process those parks that do not comply with the Greek regulations on their inclusion in the sectoral plan and development in the Natura Network. The question is why the Transitional Ministry, the Socialist Party and Podemos, supported by the Galician Nationalist Block, are working to process a park that violates Greek wind regulations, and that is what we are asking the Government of Spain repeatedly. We have already reported negatively 35 projects that are being processed by the Central Government, which add up to nearly 2,700 megawatts, and we ask that this automatically withdraw from its processing. You know perfectly well that since 2009 in Galicia no projects can be implemented on the Natura Network, the difference, Mrs. Presas -- that's your curriculum -- of the Galician Nationalist Block, which has developed parks, 177 megawatts, on the Natura Network. This is already part of the curriculum and black history of the wind sector in Galicia, which was signed and endorsed by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Mrs. Presas, they should actually send a message of coherence. Exactly, what's the criticism? That we're not transparent? Or do we actually bring together and coordinate actions with the councils and give all the information to citizens who require any type of data on an wind farm. What are we left with? Of course, let's do what we do, the Galician Nationalist Block just says no. Not to ordered development, not to development and transparency, not to planning itself. You should know that, in fact, we are moving through that information network all the data to the municipalities, to the neighbours, so that you know what initiatives you are planning to deal with in Galicia, and also clearly moving those initiatives that cannot be processed in Galicia, because they actually violate the rules and comply with the guarantees we have, within the sectoral plan and within the regulation itself that prevents the development of parks in the Natura Network. Madam Presas, tell me about the return; let's talk about the return. Why don't you talk about the 7,000 direct and indirect jobs in the sector? Why don't you talk about the EUR 581 million that brings the sector to Galicia's gross domestic product? Why don't you speak clearly of the 130 million euros that are collected annually in taxes, taxes and income for landowners? Why don't you talk about the 28 million euros generated by corporate tax? Of the EUR 30 million tax on the value of electricity production? About 23 million euros from the wind canon created by this Government? Of the 37 million euros that were entered by the municipalities on the ICIO, the BICE and also the IAE in 2019? Two 11 million euros for rents for land use? Of course, Mrs. Presas, there is a direct return to the whole of the Greek economy, of course there is a direct return to the municipalities and of course there is a direct return to the citizens of the municipalities where wind is implanted. What's surprising, surprising, is that you want to charge the Galician board the rise of the light tariff. Please! There is a government that is making decisions that are affecting the purchasing power of citizens and families, which is affecting the competitiveness of the productive sector, with an increase in electricity tariff and a lack of electro-intensive consumer status that gives it competitiveness, and you come here talking about whether the Union of Galicia is responsible for the increase in light tariff. A bit of rigour, Mrs. Presas, because by deceiving people of course they're not going to get anything at all. [[Applause]] You're talking about this weekend's demonstration, which we respect, but I think it would be good for the Nationalist Galego Block to abandon the banner eco-xism that you're constantly trying to move. You know perfectly well that processing doesn't mean authorizing and you know perfectly well that any park you process has to go through all the sectoral reports and you have to have an ordinary, positive environmental impact statement. They know perfectly well that we are analysing case by case and that we are ensuring the compatibility between environmental protection and primary sector activity in rural areas, with the consolidation of renewable energies, which are fundamental to a greener Galicia and which you refuse. You refuse renewable energies, you refuse the development of the energy transition in Galicia. If you want to talk about the marine wind. Surprisingly, the Galego Nationalist Block voting on something in Ferrol and here comes to plenary, we suggest that we study jointly with the affected sectors the possibility of developing the marine wind and what does the Block do?, boycotting also the marine wind in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I believe, Mrs Presas, that I am the example of what must not be done in economic policy, what must not be done in industrial policy, and I am simply referring to the curriculum of the Galician Nationalist Block in the field of wind development. He knows that the Galician Union has not authorized the operation of any new wind park in designated spaces of special protection to be part of the Natura Network since 2009. The Galego Nationalist Block knows that it has authorized the exploitation of 6 parks in these spaces, with more than 177 megawatts of installed power, and that, Mrs. Presas, is its curriculum and curriculum of the Galego Nationalist Block when it speaks of sustainability and the development of the wind sector in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u203	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u204	Thank you, President. Well, Vice President, it seems that those who don't want to talk too much about wind and have had to fill minutes of your intervention by talking about other industrial areas in our country are you. That's a good sign, it's a good sign that they're aware they're wrong, that they're going to have to rectify because it's going to be social and political pressure once more who's going to do, like in the Touro mine, as in aquaculture, as in the Verín hospital, not shut down, etc., that they're going to rectify, and that'll be positive for our country. [[Applause]] You had to talk even about the rise of light, those were yesterday's debates, you're a Member. In any case, I don't feel bad about getting into it too, the next time you have a commission from the chiringuit that Next Generation by which Mr. Escotet will decide more about the European funds than this Parliament, if you go Mr. Laxe can talk to him about the conclusion that arrived the other day too, about how our country, which produces more than 75% of its renewable energy and which still with two closed thermals exports around 29%, should have some kind of compensation. Maybe he can convince you, because we haven't got it from the BNG; but if you're worried about the rise of light, there's a way out. [[Applause]] And look, I ask you a question, that for something we ask you: if you don't want to install wind farms out of the Galese wind sector plan, why then unilaterally approve and consult the sector neither open wide-ranging social dialogue in a shady way and spew an express law that allows you to do it when your board of directors decides on your finger? It's really surprising, and if they don't want to override that law. With regard to the question of Nature Network, I see you come here repeating the same lies that Mr. President of the Board was telling this morning. Look, with the Natura Network, it happened the same thing that happened, for example, with the educational concerts, which left you some issues tied up and well tied up for when another government, another government that, by the way, was the first in its royal decree to exclude the areas of the Natura Network. So you can repeat these lies over and over again, but you can't rewrite the story, which is well-witted. With regard to the question of State, it is wrong again, or it manipulates better, it manipulates more than is wrong. Look, some of these projects have already claimed the Galician Nationalist Bloc without being the consulted entity, before the Galician Union and you as the responsible vice president of that area spoke out. Obviously, most of the state-wide projects that are being processed are oversized and of dimensions that are not admissible, and that is why we propose not only a timely response to these parks, that if the Galician Union is really on the people's side, because we will be, but they go to the bottom of the matter. Because you can come here and fill your chest with negative reports, but on who has the political ability right now to give the button forward or backward is the state. So we're going to claim that it's Galicia who has the decision-making capacity in that area as well. But, of course, I suppose it's going to be from Welsh to you. In any case, going to some of the more issues that came out here, Mr. Conde, on the return of the job, you, who came here to give the figures given by the employer, I imagine that it has already been subtracting the 200 and peak of Siemens-Gamesa that are being relocated to Portugal and that is still remaining, remaining and subtracting from her milk bills. And, with respect to the marine wind, because we also speak whenever you want; in fact, it's amazing that you didn't speak before the marine wind until you try to put a Trojan horse so you can self-excuse yourself and self-legitimize your steps. But we're already seeing that they're not very convinced either. They're not very convinced, because the other day you've been asked about the projects announced by Iberdrola and you've been clearly scared already pulling out of the brake, because, as you say on my land, and I know that also in the fishing voicer, what you're afraid of, and you've also done that strategy to get on the way, but you know perfectly well that there's also a problem there. What this country's economic and business advisor and other advisors should worry about is whether these balloons that come out in today's press about which are the areas supposedly delimited in the POEM is serious, it's not serious, and having a country position. Because there's going to be legislative changes, there's going to be changes in management, and you're looking somewhere else or negotiating those changes in other offices -- we don't know --. In any case, we don't trust each other, and this debate of the Earth wind gives us the reason, because what they're doing throughout the territory shows that they're not trustworthy. And that in that dilemma that you presented me with servitude or freedom, it is clear that you are on the side of worship, but on the side of servitude to interests that are not from this country. And we, of course, will be on the side of serving the interests of this country and still putting it on the table that even though you don't want to look at these mobilizations, that even if you don't want to hear the municipalism below, the mountain communities, the scientific society, etc., there's a problem there. And we're not going to stop questioning them and bring forward proposals, such as the one we're going to bring to the next plenary session, to remedy them because this is a capital problem of the country. We are at a decisive moment and we are not going to allow you to follow that line of inadjustment, deregulation, that we are governed by the interests of other companies instead of a government that should be at the service of this country and not precisely by the worship of those interests. So once again we stayed a little bit the way we were, because you come here giving evasives and not trying to have a minimally serious dialogue. But it will be at the next plenary session...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u206	...proposals to intervene on this model. We are not worried that you will also have proposals addressed to the central government, but proposals addressed to your department to correct this situation which is unbearable and that the social response is convinced that they will be corrected. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure of the inquiry, second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, very revealing your reply. It is clear that the Galego Nationalist Block has no kind of arguments to question that this Government is applying environmental legislation, it is applying urban legislation, it is applying in a secure manner all assessments of the wind farms that are being processed in Galicia. And, of course, we'll continue to work to make that model an ordered model, be a planned model and, above all, be a sustainable model. And, as far as you're concerned, there's no debate about the wind model in Galicia and its sustainability, there's no debate there. The model in Galicia, Mrs. Presas, is sustainable and that's why wind farms are not allowed to be built in spaces protected by the Natura Network, parks such as those currently being processed by the Government of the Socialist Party and Podemos, with the unbreakable support of the Galician Nationalist Block in Madrid and which are outside the sectoral plan, are not allowed. [[Murmurs.]] In short, there is no debate about Galicia's model of sustainability, which is a reality, and that is that the Galician Nationalist Block is dedicated to making ecologism of banners. [[Applause]] In any case, I believe, Mrs Presas, that we are facing an area where we have been living together for three decades between economic development and environmental protection. We have an evolved sector technologically, more efficient, which is looking for lower environmental impacts, which is avoiding CO2 emissions and which is also contributing to the improvement of the areas where these projects are being implemented. A wind sector that is in spite of what the Galego Nationalist Block is moving is generating jobs, which is hiring self-employed and businesses, which pay taxes and pay income for land. Finally, a sector that is allowing us to evolve in Galicia. And, unfortunately, you make sums and rests of jobs; this government's priority is precisely to prevent the irresponsibility of the Galician Nationalist Block from entailing job losses associated with Ence, Reganosa, the Bridges or Navantia. Because unfortunately in Galicia industrial employment is threatened by the very irresponsibility of the Galician Nationalist Block in industrial matters. [[Applause]] In any case, we're not going to accompany that banner echoes of the Galego Nationalist Block, we're not going to accompany that defense of the rural environment through the banner that makes the Galician Nationalist Block and, of course, we're not going to fall into that policy of the Galego Nationalist Block, which we know, we know perfectly well the policy of the Galician Nationalist Block in industrial matters, in terms of the country's defence. Remember that AP-9 napkin? Well, that AP-9 handkerchief, unfortunately, is what you want to transfer to the continuity of Ence, the razor that you want to transfer to the workers of Navantia, the razor that you want to transfer to the workers of the Bridge. [[Laughter]] In short, the knife with the excuse of their energy policy wants to move you to Galicia's industrial policy. [[Murmurs.]] Madam Presas, I'm sorry but, of course, our wind model is a model of sustainability, it's a model of economic development in Galicia, it's a model that is compatible with environmental protection. And we're going to continue to bet on the development of this sector despite the permanent opposition of the Galician Nationalist Block. I'm sorry, Mrs. Presas, that actually -- dismantled by the banners of the Galician Nationalist Block -- I think we're coming to the real reason of your campaign against the wind sector, which is simply paralyzing the sector. But where does this look?, but what irresponsibility!, to pretend to paralyze a sector simply by a purely ideological theme. Madam Presas, before that we say no, we don't. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-09-DSPG040.u209	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here ends the agenda. Thank you for the facilities you've given to be able to configure the whole order of the day. Nothing else. Let's get the session up.
