ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Justify your absence and delegate your vote to Mrs. Maria del Carmen Aira Díaz. And in accordance with Rule 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz makes his absence legal and delegate his vote to this plenary meeting -- which is done by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo --. Change in the development of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u2	And, no more, we're on the agenda. You all know the change that has occurred as a result of the change of questions to the president. Let's start with the next question. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, asked Mr. President of the Galician Government about the maintenance of a meeting with the leaders of the Galician parliamentary forces to address the exit of the crisis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u3	Whenever you like, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There were two control sessions. I asked the president of the board to explain to us what happened and why the CEO of DomusVi was vaccinated. We didn't get an answer, not a word. At the previous control session we asked the president of the board whether the Galician board would collaborate with the historical downturn that the Ministry of Development is working on the AP-9 peas, whether it would also enrich them from the Government of the board or study possibilities. He didn't answer either. And today we asked the President of the Union whether, after the statements he has made, it is true that he will bring together the voices of the parliamentary groups of this Greek Parliament to dialogue, to share, to work on a roadmap of reconstruction, which is more necessary than ever. You know, Mr Feijóo, that the voicer of the PSdEG-PSOE will be on time, on the site and in the format you want to summon the voices of the parliamentary groups of the German Parliament to talk about a crisis that is very worrying to the Greeks. The Greeks and the Greeks are deeply concerned, many of them terrified, in the face of the greatest economic and social crisis we've ever experienced. The fall in production has not had this intensity since the time of the Civil War, the risks to reconstruction, the challenges we face in the face of inequality, the generation of pockets of poverty, structural employment problems, they have never seen each other. And we have the impression that you have renounced the reactivation and reconstruction of Galicia of the future. We're going to move forward into a new reality, but we've found a union with fallen arms, an inactive joint, a joint that abandons a roadmap of reconstruction that is more necessary than ever. I mean, Mr. Feijóo, that in the face of this crisis we can't get out like the crisis of the great recession you've ruled, with the policies of cuts and austerity that you've applied for ten years. Now, when there is a different consensus in the face of the greatest crisis, the European Union is leading a radically different economic rescue action programme. Last year they arrived in Galicia in ERTE and in unemployment subsidies more than a billion euros that went to the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks. This year there are more than 1,100 million euros extraordinary in the budgets of the Galician Union, but we find that, at the challenge of the 2030 agenda, in the challenges of industrial policy, in the challenges of employment, in the demographic challenge, the Galician Union has given up and is absent. I understand, Mr. Feijóo, that it is time to do the duties, it is time to get to work for the future of Galicia. Because reconstruction goes through three great keys. It goes through a vaccination process that, driven by the European Union, allows it to be the biggest guarantee against the virus -- more than a billion euros that the Government of Spain invests in buying vaccines so that Spain is also in a massive vaccination process --. A second challenge is to hit the restrictions. Your strategy of saving Christmas failed, you also failed the strategy of those who proposed a confinement in October or January, and we have to work for a weighted and suitable escalation to rebuild Galicia. And thirdly, we have to talk about the reactivation, a "plan ahead" for Galicia, which cannot be allowed to lose the challenge of modernization, the challenge of winning the future, the challenge of giving hope to Galician girls and girls, who, when they see Galician Union, find no way to work for them, a chance to have something to believe. And for that we tend to hold hands from a strong opposition when there are cuts in social services -- powerful because you've destroyed many busy population jobs in your years of government and powerful when there are setbacks in any kind of aspect that affects people -- but loyal to the biggest crisis. The times ahead will be very complicated for many quarters and we all have to be in touch with Galicia we want. And for that, you have the hand held for, constructively, to participate -- with the format you want -- in a meeting. Because it's been over six months of the People's Party's government in Galicia and the voice of the Galician Socialist Party has not received a single call from the president of the Union nor has there been a single meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u6	With all due loyalty, we ask him to work for Galicia and to seek a great deal of country agreement for the reconstruction of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u7	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, I think we all agree on the importance of finding agreements. It is true that citizenship often listens to the interest in seeking agreements, but it is also true that in most cases it is preceded by disqualifications and that those agreements are finally in words. In Parliament, in the House, we agreed to set up a special parliamentary committee to assess the various proposals of the groups for reactivation. Most of them immediately accepted that commission and the Government went to work on it. You will remember, ladies and gentlemen, that commission continues to act and that we have been working on the commission -- five months, since the month of October in which that commission was constituted --. It is a commission to assess economic reactivation, to follow the improvements in public health, to assess the guarantee of public services during the pandemic, to order Galicia's proposals in European funds. Five months, Mr. Caballero, with twenty-four work sessions and forty-nine attendances! And before I finished that reactivation commission and before I realized what the proposals are, I received a letter from the BNG spokesman and some media comments about the possibility of joining us. You didn't ask me for an interview, you just did some media assessments, which are different things. And you've also done valuations -- you or your bandmates -- about who's the leader of the opposition and who's not, about whether the BNG is confused about that role, or about who belongs to you. I think the best we could do, if it seems to you, would be to agree with the House's groups in the format and the moment to make that meeting. I think it's reasonable. We have an active parliamentary commission, which has not yet raised the ruling in the House, with 49 people who have appeared in five months of work, and now are we going to break up with all this to change a format that we had previously established? I think that's not the most reasonable thing. It seems reasonable to move forward in that committee and then, if you think it is, you can see us in the format you consider appropriate. But in the middle of a commission of economic reactivation, breaking up with five months of work, missing 49 visitors and not worth anything, it would be quite surprising. Look, as you know, I'll meet the Minister of Transport tomorrow. Let's talk about what you were talking about at first: the fees. It seems you don't understand our position. Look, it's easy! We can't subsidize the rates of a state highway, we have already increased the rates of the autonomous motorways, and that's why they're the lowest in Spain. But you're delighted with the proposal to raise taxes -- because they haven't downloaded -- from the central government at the moment. The spokesperson for the BNG is frankly full of announcements that are not later put into practice. Who do I listen to, Your Honor? All seems to indicate that what I have to suggest is that we immediately do the bonus and decrease of the fee, the lifting of the payroll and then talk about the transfer. That's our position. Look, within a few months -- weeks -- it will end the alarm state. It seems reasonable that we ask for a conference of presidents to concreteize and administer the times after the lifting of the alarm state. Are you going to support these proposals, simple proposals, proposals that are full of common sense? It seems reasonable, Mr. Knight. If the alarm comes to an end, we have to realise how we're going to work out of the alarm state and without enough vaccines for group immunity. It seems reasonable, therefore, that we talk about important things and rely on important things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u10	If we have a parliamentary committee dedicated to this purpose, we should respect this Parliament. So, Mr. Knight -- I insist -- I have no problem talking to you, not even talking to you even though you don't ask me to talk to you -- at least formally --. As you will understand, if I have to pay attention to everything they publish about what you say, it would have a huge problem of interpretation. Let's go to the real sources. The clean source where we've been working for five months is in this House. I propose to move forward, concretely, to close the proposals and meet. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u11	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u12	If I have proposals other than the groups, it would be good at least for the groups to agree with each other. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u13	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u14	Mr President, you have already rejected your own words when you announced that you were willing to meet with the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups. I give you today the chance to choose format, location and time. On February 8, we transferred to him that we wanted to hold a meeting with you as president of the Galician Union. And what you have to say is whether you want to choose the dialogue and the agreement or not. He's been ruling for six months and hasn't been in touch yet with the leader of the Socialist Party of Galicia. You explain how you want to get out of this crisis, what roadmap has, whether it's time to assimilate into the absolute majority of the PP or whether it's time, through dialogue, to share with civil society, with the political forces and with the country, a reconstruction that puts at risk much of the advanced. And I want to tell you that you made a mistake, that the People's Party made a mistake when it hampered the arrival of European funds in Spain, when it hampered the allocation of these funds to budgets, and also failed when it voted against Royal Decree 36/2020. It was the best chance for those funds to arrive and you obstructed them. And in the Committee on Reactivation all that the People's Party has done in relation to European funds has been to carry ten sheets in which they are still hiding, through mutism and obscurantism, these 108 projects that you already hide, which they don't even defend because they are neglected in the reconstruction policy. In other places, the political leaders of the communities talk and talk to the opposition representatives to put the affairs of the country above. But you are in other things, Mr. Feijóo, and I understand that the People's Party has a very complicated situation. We don't know what the People's Party is anymore, whether the Feijóo PP, if the Ayuso PP, if the PP that's concerned about the envelopes of Bárcenas. That's the crisis that the People's Party has right now, and that's why you don't talk to and talk to the Socialist Party in Galicia and the rest of the parliamentary political forces to rebuild the country. [[Applause]] They're worried because they know that the People's Party is in the deepest crisis in their history. But even if you're in crisis, even if you're at risk of the ultra-right "sorpace", even if you're wondering who's getting the envelopes from Bárcenas, and that President Rajoy himself is today being questioned all over the world about what happened, you have to devote yourself to working for Galicia, talking about the reconstruction of Galicia. Leave the PP's strategies and talk about the Greeks and the Greeks who see there's no job, who have trouble finding the future, who don't have the help of the hostel. I understand the discomfort of the PP because, when you look in the mirror, you find yourself with your concern, which is the People's Party and the history of corruption. But that's not what concerns the Greeks and the Greeks, they're concerned that you don't have time to talk about reconstruction... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u15	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u16	...to not miss the only opportunity to modernize our productive fabric...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u18	...with a flow of funds that can't be wasted. The challenge of Galicia is to protect people from the most serious crisis, and for that, dialogue is necessary, the agreement is necessary, the People's Party needs to get off the pedestal, that it ceases to be concerned only by Casado or the Bárcenas and that it meets with representatives of the political forces of Galicia so that we all put the best of ourselves in speaking of this reconstruction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u20	Do not turn the Reactivation Commission into a peer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u21	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u22	...without scope, without content, where European funds are not being clarified according to their project.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u24	The 108 projects you have formulated are a fake news that no one knows about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u25	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u26	They hide in mutism because they don't want to work for reactivation and dialogue. Tell the Galician Socialist Party and join in working for the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u27	Mr. Knight, your time is up. Thank you. Close this question by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, of course you want to hold the People's Party. There's no doubt about it. You're interested in agreement and dialogue. [[Laughter]] And after this intervention -- in case someone had doubts -- it's perfectly confirmed and reaffirmed. And it is also reaffirmed that Mr. Feijóo is in crisis and Mr. Caballero is better than ever. Of course, Your Honor, that you have a high degree of self-esteem, which I think is good for you, because to dedicate yourself to politics from your position is absolutely essential. [[Applause]] Look, it looks like this is a movie from the west: "Choose format, day and place." No, but if we already had the format, we had it agreed. We have a special committee in Parliament. 49 people from different institutions, many of them from civil society -- those we consider appropriate to appear --. We've been working for five months, more than 20 sessions. Does it not seem reasonable to you to move forward in that commission later, if possible, to reach an agreement and close the agreement between the opposition leaders and the Government? It seems reasonable to me. That format looks good, doesn't it, regular? Can you agree with Mrs Pontón and we have a formula for moving forward in a commission that we have given ourselves? Or is Parliament a paripé? Or do you propose study committees, special reactivation committees, and then, when you hit them, before you finish them and blame the majority group for not finishing them, do you get up and want another format? Well, that doesn't seem to be very serious in Parliament. If you don't, you'll have to joke about every proposal you make as a commission. Look, with all due respect, I'm sorry that you don't even know, because it represents the Government every time you speak, that of the 108 projects that we present -- that we approve -- 44 are already presented in the ministries. 40% of all Next Generation projects are already presented to the central government and you don't know. Like this is a teddy bear! Ask the ministry if it's a paripé what we present there. And ask business partners, public-private proposals, if what is presented at sea is a paripé, if what is presented in the field of biotechnology is a paripé, if what is presented in the field of forest is a paripé. But really you're going to go along with this kind of absurd poses! I ask you, Mr. Knight, to reflect. Think about it, because it would be good for you to have taken into account some proposal and some driving thread to know, at least, what you think and whether it's possible to wake up or disagree. But I have to admit that you have me very confused. He speaks of the importance of this historic moment. Without a doubt, yesterday we had to approve EUR 11,000 million for the productive sectors and there was no agreement in the Government, and the Council of Ministers automatically rose without agreement. Looks like there's another council of ministers on Friday. And do you come here to teach me serious, rigorous lessons in the application of European funds? But, Mr. Caballero, don't you realize that since April we've been studying how we can share funds and how we reactivate the economy -- even if the European Union would approve the funds -- and with wise, prudent people, with professors, with people representing the companies, with the best companies in the country, with a former president of the Galician Union sitting there? How this is not done with rigour! Will there be any higher rigor to invite a commission of experts continuously, who raised six documents -- some of them before the central government, and that the central government copied, copied the ERTEs, copied the liquidity... --? Yes, Your Honor, yes! [[Murmurs.]] Oh, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, if you don't think so, you talk to the experts. Maybe you'd be surprised...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u29	Quiet, please! Quiet, please! Quiet, Mr. Knight!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u30	Look, Mr. Knight, with all due respect, about the crisis and the transcendental moment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u32	...of the situation we live in, I think you should think about it. Spain has just believed an increase in unemployment over 23 %. In Galicia we did not reach a 12% increase.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u33	Mr. Knight, please, you have spoken. Now it's up to the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u34	In Galicia we have just believed that our exports have fallen by 6%; in Spain, by 40% more, by 10%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u36	So when this comparison is made of our country's critical situation, man, you should congratulate the Galician society, the Greek workers, the Greek industries; because we are still in full crisis, in full recession, we are enduring the recession much better than the rest of Spain. And by the way, Your Honor, if you want to compare the rigor and unity of the Government of Galicia with the rigor and the unity of the "central rule", that triumph remains for you. But I'm gonna keep talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u38	...with government ministers. I don't care if they're Podemos or the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u39	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u40	And I'll keep talking to you if you agree on what you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u41	It's proportional, yes, yes! Then I'll give you the times if you like. Don't have any doubt about time. It's proportional, I try to make the balance. Yes, yes, you can check. This is all recorded, they don't doubt it. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the measures to be taken by the German Government to advance towards the real equality of women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u42	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u43	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just celebrated an 8M and I want to begin by congratulating the women and the feminist movement in Greece on the example of the claim and responsibility they gave yesterday. It is clear, once again, that feminism today is the great movement of social transformation and that its proposals and demands are more necessary than ever. [[Applause]] The pandemic is increasing gender inequality and women were the first to lose their jobs and return home without a contract, no wages and no rights. And what about the telework of women who have to reconcile! It's pure juggling. We have a lot of journalists here who know perfectly well what I'm talking about. In this crisis, women who work in the most feminized sectors were the most essential, but despite that, their working conditions were the worst. And let me quote some data that leaves us with this pandemic: 15,600 women came to care at home -- so it's Mr. Feijó that the lack of public services that leaves us their government with free and without women's rights -- eight out of ten jobs destroyed were occupied by women; and the pay gap continues -- 4,527 euros less than a year --. With this data, Mr. Feijóo, you have an obligation to act. We want to make proposals from the BNG: a women's employment plan -- because it must be cut off at the root of the involution that is supposed to expel women from the labour market and lose economic independence linked to professional development -- ; it is necessary to work on a new model of care that allows a sufficient public network to stop conciliation from being science-fiction, and also to ensure that care is not based on the precariousness of women's work; it is necessary to exclude from public procurement those companies that have a conviction for discrimination -- or it is necessary to develop a Union equality plan -- because it is incredible that their government persists in breaking the law just when it should be an example of equality. And finished, ladies and gentlemen, with a reflection. In the year that many women risked even their health to care for us, we saw as if our right to manifest this 8M was questioned, treating us little less than irresponsible and even blowing the ground to try to blame women in a fourth wave. This was the message on the right and the extreme right, hand by hand, as they did the past 8M in an indecent way. And it must be denounced that it is pure political machismo. [[Applause]] And finally, Mr. Feijóo, asking him what he did to his government in favour of women's equality. And I hope you will respond, I hope that today we will not see its radical drift and contempt for this Parliament, in which it is installed in recent times, and that it will respond -- because we are talking about something very important, which is the right of women to be free and equal -- about what the Council of Galicia is going to do in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. President-in-Office's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like, in our first words, to remember the 43 women and a minor murder since 2009 in Galicia; killed by their couples. I wanted to recall the three that were killed in the last year of 2020: Manuela Iglesias Fernández, murdered in the Pastoral Church by her husband, she was 79 years old; Clara Exposto Vilanova, murdered by her partner in Lugo, was 49 years old; and Soledad King Valverde, murdered by her partner in Gondomar, was 59 years old. To all these victims, forty-three women and one minor, our homage, our permanent memory and our respect. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are undoubtedly many aspects left to continue to improve real and effective equality. One of them is in the labour market. In that labour market, this government, since July, has taken an unprecedented decision on the departmental structure of the autonomous communities, which was to create an Employment and Equality Council, because without employment there is no equality. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to continue working throughout the legislation, knowing that this legislation is going to be marked by unemployment, recession and contraction of the market, and, therefore, a lot of unemployment. For us, the advancements of female employment we all celebrate with hope. For example, the female employment rate, when we got to the government, was 57%, is now about 60 percent. For example, the unemployment rate -- according to EPA -- in Galicia, female unemployment is five points lower than in the average of Spain. For example, at the registered unemployment rate we have the lowest unemployment rate recorded in February 2020, when the pandemic began in the last 15 years. For example, in affiliations -- they don't fool affiliations -- in 2019, it was the record of women's affiliations in Galicia to Social Security: 491,000. And despite the recession, in 2020 we ended with an average membership of 484,000 women in Social Security; the two records of female employment affiliations since there are records in Social Security. We have less temporality and less part-time work. And you tell me, "Are you happy with this?" No, I'm hopeful, Your Honor. We made the first Plan against gender violence thirty years ago, a Government of the People's Party -- I wasn't even in this chamber, you think so, because you should, Your Honor, appreciate that we've been working on this subject for a long time. Galicia's first equality law was adopted in 2004 -- I was already in government -- and we've been working on this issue continuously and consistently. When he said to me, "What did you guys do?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well, look, we've been working for 30 years, we've been working for as long as the Greeks want us. For example, in the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, which we approved in 2018 until 2021, we have invested 900 million euros; we have expanded the paternity and maternity permits, the first autonomous community that has done so; we have expanded the aid for the reduction of the day; we support more than one hundred twenty-two municipalities; we have approved a clause of equality, which you refer to public procurement, and more than ever, Your Honor: the Welcome Card, 60 million euros for conciliation, more infantry schools than ever, and we are the first autonomous community, probably free of charge for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u47	...the second children, regardless of the age of the first. This is part of the things we came to do. But let's keep working, Mrs. Pontón. And that's why I think the most important thing is if in Galicia there's less female unemployment, if there's less time in female employment, if there's more full-time work in the female field, and by the way, less pay gap than when you were in government. The salary divide of the year 2008 we inherited was 25%, today it's 20%. You'll see that, regardless of everything, we're on the right path; we're on the wrong path.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u49	But I think in this case, Mrs. Pontón, it would be very good to look for fewer confrontations and many more agreements. That's why I like the tone of your question. And I'm telling you, from the point of view of the answer, in the matter of equality, we're all together, Mrs. Pontón. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u51	Well, Mr. Feijóo, thirty years ago, I was in high school -- sorry -- at the university, and I think you were already privatizing public health in this country. [[Applause]] We share that there is a face that is the hardest of all machoism, which is violence against women. And it is important, indeed, to work against this violence. But what they need is not words, they are facts, and their facts are that they voted against this chamber, against which we dedicate 1% to fighting this violence that every day penalizes women and that many have cost them their lives. And it turns out, of course, heartbreaking to hear his intervention. You come here today boast that there is less unemployment. Why is there less unemployment rate, Mr Feijóo? That's the question we have to ask ourselves. Why are there more women employed or why -- as they've been alerting all organizations and feminism around this 8-M -- the problem is that 15,600 women have stopped being active populations and moved to their homes to do care work because there's not enough public network? Mr. Feijóo, you are boasting a fact that means an unprecedented involution to women's rights. That's it, Mr. Feijóo, it's a shame. [[Applause]] This 8-M, I think there's a lot of things that the Greeks won't forget. We will not forget that his great contribution was to try to use the figure of Pardo Bazán to whiten Frankism. We won't forget that the People's Party, hand in hand with the extreme right, questioned the right of women to manifest themselves. We won't forget, ladies and gentlemen, your pacts with that extreme right, which makes apologizing of machismo. Do you know what it calls women to defend their right to be equal? "Feminazis." It's just that it's creepy, Mr. Feijóo. And that's really your contribution right now. In this crisis women were fundamental. Women who worked in homes, hospitals, the cleaning sector... women who are all in highly precarious sectors. And you come here to tell them everything's going best. No, Mr. Feijóo, get off the official car and listen to the women of this country. Their conditions weren't the best, they're going the worst, and we're living an involution that really requires commitments and facts. Today I will move here four proposals: a women's employment plan, which will set up a new model of care with a public network that guarantees public services with decent jobs for women, which will really put in place measures that will enable us to cope with the current inflow. And your answer is that everything is fine, Mr. Feijóo. It's a shame that that's the conclusion of this 8M. The women who were in the street were saying that we want real equality, and you come here only to say that you're not going to do anything. It's the worst epilogue we could put on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u53	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mrs. Pontón, that you change your tone. Speaking face-to-face, you need to have a lot of face to say what you just said. I'm not going to come in because it seems to me a lack of respect for women, which you're probably looking for. Look, when I arrived in 2003 at this chamber, you were a Member. What do you want me to say? I don't know if I'd matched high school with the camera, I don't know, I have no idea. But the truth is, you've been here as a Member since I remember, since I have a memory. I don't think that can bother you, but what are we going to do if it is? You were a Member before Mr Caballero and me. Now it seems like it's the novelty of Galician politics. It's very surprising, ladies and gentlemen, how you twist things. When she says that women don't work here, but if the social security affiliates are in 2019, we're in 491,000 women, and in 2020 in 484,000 women. Mr. Caballero says it's because of an active population problem. But what will the social security affiliations have to do with the active population? Now they're bloating us because a lot of people have been hired in the home help service. What do you want, that people aren't hired? We're the autonomous community with more people in the home aid service, and it's also bad for you. Well, everything seems bad to you. Unfortunately, that's how it is. See: Gender Equity Index, published in 2019, Royal Academy of Economic and Financial Sciences: the community with the least inequality between women and men in the labour market, Galicia. The Tax Agency, wage divide: in 2020, 20%; in 2008 -- when you supported the Government --, 25%; in Spain, almost 22%. And you think I can't even give that data? It's more than surprising, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] The truth is, I had to confess that, seeing the formulation of the question, I come here with a certain optimism, to see that we could do working together. And you know what? That after listening to her in this second intervention, the questions are not for equality, the questions are against the People's Party of Galicia. But what did we come here to talk about? You think equality is your heritage. The only women who defend equality are the BNG Members. Members of the PSOE and the Members of the People's Party of Galicia do not advocate equality. It is a very important lack of respect for your fellow Members. The achievements are collective, Your Honor, and the pending subjects, too. Why do they want to appropriate something that summons us all? Why? Does he really expect anyone to believe that the Galician People's Party had nothing to do with this fight for equality of women and men for all these years? If we have adopted the first Equality Plan thirty years ago and since 2004 we have approved the first law, it seems reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, that we all celebrate, even the law that proposed and approved the Bipartite in 2008. Of course it's everyone's commitment! Do you think that the Greek women who vote for the Galician People's Party are not intelligent, capable, independent women with their own criteria? Do you think that if most women hadn't voted for the Galician People's Party, I could speak as president of this chamber? If only women who vote for BNG defend equality, then we have a worrying society, Mrs. Pontón. Look: stop confronting, seek solutions and seek agreements on equality, because it's not just an opportunity, but it's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u55	...it's a decent approach, decent!, Mrs. Pontón. To say that this government was against that women, by meeting the health criteria, could concentrate or manifest themselves or do institutional acts is an indecency, an indecency!, which I think is inappropriate for a woman who comes here saying she represents women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u57	Mrs. Pontón, after listening to her, you represent only a few women. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u58	Thank you, President. We're still on the agenda. Now let's pick up the first point, which is that of appearances. Opinion of the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, on his own request, to report on the general forecasts and lines of action of his department and actions relating to the evolution of curfew-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u59	To begin this meeting, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u60	Very good morning. This legislation will remain in the memory of being marked by the current pandemic crisis we are still living in. We started by suffering the effects of the health context that affected the cultural sector and, of course, the educational field and the university area. In October, it was timely that my first appearance in this chamber was to report on the beginning of the 2020-2021 course; this was undoubtedly the most complex and difficult course in our recent history. I'm here today to explain the general lines of action of our board, being aware that the health framework still conditions part of the day by day. But we can't give up developing political action to ensure the future, the future for culture, for language, for teaching and for the universities in Greece. Our department has the responsibility and commitment to work in the present; to work in the present to care for culture, heritage, language, that are our rich past, and to prepare the education of new generations, that are our promising future. Ultimately reactivate the future of Galicia. Do it through education, giving opportunities and forming our best asset: youth, children and children today, who will be the Greeks and the Greeks tomorrow. And always honoring and respecting what we are: Greeks with a culture that makes us as we are. Ladies and gentlemen, the health situation has forced many measures during the 2020-2021 course. Measures that many of them remain vigilant and will continue as long as they are useful. We can't lower the guard until there's a definitive health solution. We face this course based on a series of basic principles: to promote face-to-faceness, to make the centers safe, to regain confidence, to overcome the logical fears that families and professionals had and, of course, to keep the system running. We have taken many different measures: organisational, strengthening, adaptation, prevention, participation, and I believe we have achieved this. The Greek education was prepared, and I was with a great effort of the entire educational community: the teacher, the management teams, the families and, above all, the children and the children, the students, who had a great ability to adapt, a great respect for standards and enormous discipline. Galicia has been prepared, education has been prepared to organize day by day and to prevent the various threats that could be identified: anticipation, planning, dialogue, follow-up to health guidelines, cooperation, involvement and responsibility. All of this enabled us to overcome the initial fears and develop educational activity within an unprecedented pandemic crisis. Galicia has been prepared, she has never stopped doing the necessary thing to ensure health safety. Plans and preventive projects were made because another confinement came; obviously, another unwanted confinement. We did so with the advice of the Education Committee and under the support of the Clinical Health Committee. And I want to express here our gratitude for work and voluntary help to bring knowledge and ideas from all the members of the Education Committee, who were good and generous, who brought the best of you and did a great service -- they're doing a great service -- to education and Galicia. Each educational centre has been endowed with a contingency plan, we have made protocols, we have enabled technological systems to regulate ventilation, we have designed an educational reserve fund to provide complementary and extra resources to the centres so that they can meet the costs of adaptation, we have strengthened basic services such as cleaning, dining, etc.; finally, a tremendously singular adaptation work was done. From the organizational perspective, we incorporated about two thousand three hundred new teachers into the public education system, and strengthened the teacher's training on cover-19 and on digital and didactic skills. We bet on full presence in compulsory education and in bachelor's degree, and yet we faced the significant challenge of strengthening online education as a complement to face-to-face education. We did this with a virtual teaching plan, which worked when it was needed, and with the creation of the student virtual care teams, to strengthen home care. We wanted -- really and without empty rhetoric -- that no one would stay behind, and for that we also implement a Vulnerable Student Care Plan to ensure the education process. And we can't forget that German education has an emotional welfare plan, the first in Spain, which presents an integral strategy to address the emotional problems arising from the current pandemic crisis in students and teachers. At the university level, from the very first moment, we have held regular meetings with the principals and representatives of the three universities to adopt measures in a coordinated manner in this regard. The faculties of the University System of Galicia, of the SUG, have been and are safe places from the health point of view, they have contingency plans and health prevention plans, adjusted, obviously, to their characteristics. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, we have put in place many measures to ensure the smooth functioning of the 2020-2021 course, both for non-university education and for SUG, which means -- and I suppose -- an over-investment of around one hundred sixty-two million euros. In culture, the Council has also dedicated its efforts to support the cultural sector in our community. Before the outbreak of the pandemic, culture had shown a positive upward path, but things had changed and had to react. Galicia was the first autonomous community in Spain to adopt a Reactivation Plan, a roadmap presented in this chamber with basic and very clear objectives: saving cultural employment, encouraging consumption and supporting the activity of professionals and companies. We support more than four thousand five hundred cultural events -- obviously, in different formats -- and we helped keep a sector alive, which despite a great impact, a huge impact, at last this was less than expected, as we just met a few days ago by the Greek culture barometer. To support our cultural and creative sector, this plan undoubtedly called for a shock intervention that we continue to expand today. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the second quarter of the course and in the equator of it, I am proud, healthyly proud of the Welsh educational system, of its teachers, of the management teams, of the non-teaching staff, of the families, of the student. The German educational system was at its height, assumed a remarkable over effort, was prepared, was alert. Preventive measures worked; when it was necessary to activate them, it was done with a good result. Among all of us, finally, we achieve the fundamental objective: that the health crisis does not result in an educational crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, after this analysis of the situation, of the situation that has been going on so far, we move on to future actions. It's obvious that at first there was a need to focus the work on the urgency of ensuring security in front of the pandemic. Now the time has come -- without lowering the guard in any case -- to focus on normalizing and advancing political action, thinking about the reactivation and future of Galicia. Obviously, there are still issues to be considered, such as the sharing of European funds that correspond to Galicia and some unconcreted announcements from the central government in the matters that occupy us. We have to see how the uncertainties and conflicts that are going to generate are implemented -- which is already generating -- the LOMLOE, and we hope that the new law of advertised universities doesn't make sense of a mess. Despite the uncertainties, we must contribute to the reactivation of Galicia. And to do it from a culture that, through its different sectors and its historical heritage, forces our identity and our being as a country, which serves us to affirm ourselves as a historical community, integrating and model of coexistence; a culture that is fundamental to the progress and well-being of citizenship. And a language that is a vital and relevant element for the present and the future of our people. Galicia is a reference to linguistics, we are not going to allow our model, a model itself, to be changed by decisions that respond to other kinds of interests and promote intolerance. At this new stage, we have an important challenge: that our sectors, and therefore our culture, take up the path of growth and continue to be relevant. We must address this challenge by talking and accompanying the professionals of the cultural industries, as we have seen so far, in anticipation and with permanent dialogue. We are inserting another twenty-three million euros this beginning of the year, broadening the scope of the Reactivation Plan in our culture. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity: Jacob is a great promotion event in Galicia, where culture has to be a very important element, and certainly will be. And we welcome as a very good news the expansion of the event to the year 2022. Culture must be a cross-cutting axis of government policies, and we have three major strategic opportunities: a budget that has been experiencing permanent and solid increases, which this year has grown by 27.4%, i.e. more than twenty million euros; a Jacobean decade that will function as an incentive for economic activity and consumption throughout Galicia, and European funds, which will also be destined for cultural recovery. One of our greatest challenges will be to continue to develop the Strategy of Greek Culture; we are already doing so. At the normative level, after the adoption of several standards in recent years -- the latest, the Museum Law -- we see the need to deal with the development of two new normative projects: on the one hand, the law of digital transformation of culture and, on the other hand, the law of inclusion and cultural accessibility. At the planning level we will continue to move forward in the development of sectoral plans and programmes, which will allow us to improve in more specific strategic areas, such as the external projection of Greek culture, the empowerment of foundations and museum houses, the support for new creators, the dynamisation and innovation of culture in rural areas, the training of professionals and the cultural sectors, the dynamisation of reading and, of course, we will continue to build digital memory. At the level of governance we will focus on opening meeting spaces, debate and reflection and making decisions that provide planning and action capacity. One more step is taken in the permanent dialogue that we have with different cultural agents. We will have new bodies, such as the Committee on Permanent Cultural Cooperation with Local Authorities, the Council of Cultural Industries, the Council of Plastic and Visual Arts and the Commission of Cultural Interest Foundations in Galicia. In addition to the above, I would like to point out that libraries, archives and museums will continue to be protagonists as democratic tools that ensure access to culture throughout society. Furthermore, the City of Culture of Galicia plays and will play a key role in creating and disseminating culture. We have just celebrated the first ten years of opening up to the public of this building. At this time, Gaias has experienced a real phase of consolidation of the project at the architectural level, at the cultural, functional and landscape level, and now it's about to face a second phase of expansion for the coming years. Its roadmap will be realized in the second strategic plan of the City of Culture 2021-2027, currently in writing. We want to convert this space, this enclosure, into a reference in cultural programming and the creation of contents inside and outside Galicia, incorporating a new dimension related to research and heritage studies, in this case, thanks to the integration of the Fontan building into the complex. In this legislation we will face the need for a new impetus to our cultural and creative industries. This is an opportunity to generate wealth, employment and economic dynamism. The importance of the Galician Cultural Industries Agency, Agadic, and its ability to contribute to cultural and creative industries is growing. This is why we will strengthen its management structure and we will also promote new actions: the development of a strategy for music festivals, which places the Fest Galicia brand as a reference in this field; together with the sector we will develop a new dance plan, which will serve to empower the Galego Coreographic Center; we will create a sustainable support line for commercial cinemas, and we will develop new programs for video game. In this paragraph we have an inclusive and cross-cutting project: the audiovisual hub of cultural industries, which must create positive synergies between the sector and facilitate the development of new initiatives and proposals. With a budget of 9.6 million will undoubtedly be a great opportunity to strengthen the competitiveness and prestige of our cultural industry. In this audience we cannot forget the necessary commitment to the protection and the value of our rich cultural heritage. At the beginning of this legislation, we reigned -- if I'm allowed the expression -- the cathedral of Santiago, after eight hundred years of its construction. After several years of joint and coordinated work, we guarantee the conservation and maintenance of this temple, which is -- as you all know -- the goal of the walkers to Compostela. We have prepared Santiago's cathedral for the year 2021, and we will continue to take care of it. But now we're going to focus the following actions on the rest of the cathedrals of our community, putting another Jacobean temporal horizon, in the year 2027. Thus, this spring we will launch the cathedral plan 2021-2027, which will be directed primarily to the temples of Lugo, Mondoñedo, Ourense and Tui. Protecting and valuing heritage is an element that undoubtedly favors territorial cohesion and promotes development. At this new stage we will continue to move forward in this direction, and we will also do so by fulfilling the Plan of Cultural Interests of the Way of Santiago, and we will do so despite the lack of real commitment at the moment of the Central Government. We must not forget that in this legislation we have important challenges with regard to the Greek candidatures the heritage of humanity. We hope that this summer all Galicia will be able to count on the inclusion of the landscape of the Sacred River in the World Heritage List. We are currently facing the last choice, after a long and very demanding process. This is the last choice: the final evaluation of UNESCO. Hopes are a lot, but we must keep working to achieve it. We will continue to advance the candidature Cías-Illas Atlanticas proposed by the Galician Union and already included in the UNESCO indicative list. And the Illustration Ferrol will continue to advance with the joint and loyal work between Union, Town Hall and State. As far as heritage is concerned, I want to express that we will continue to work as we do so far to get the Greeks to manage the palace of Meirás, even though some in this chamber are not in favour. From the German Government we have already presented to the Central Government, in December, a plan of uses for this space; an open document that serves as a basis for beginning to combine different sensibilities. It is known, from our perspective, that Meirás towers should serve to, on the one hand, claim the figure of Emilia Pardo Bazán, the role of the woman, a beacon of equality; also promote democratic values, the superiority of democratic values over any kind of dictatorship, explaining the complete history of the palace, and of course developing open cultural uses that allow Meirás to be a living space, a living space, and count on a quality museum and cultural project. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also point out the bet of this board for the dynamisation and promotion of our language. We want to guarantee the future of Greek in all social fields, and always do so from respect, tolerance and freedom, which are the keys to our model, a model of our own. Our language has to be or is a vehicle for communication, for transmission of emotions, for transmission of pride; a wealth that we have and that we must strengthen between different generations and in all sectors, at the same time that we must adapt to new times. One of the fundamental challenges for our language in the 21st century is to participate in the new technological developments that allow us to interact with Welsh in the digital world. We're already doing it on some social network, and we'll keep doing it on this line. This will also be the legislation in which Spain, through the impulse of Galicia, will enter the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, in the CPLP. Culture, heritage, language and, of course, as it could not be otherwise, the Council assumes the commitment to contribute and reactivate Galicia by preparing us for the future, and to do so in a model of education that is unique and differentiated, supported by good results. A quality, inclusive and equitable teaching, which educates in values and equality, which is modern, with educational spaces that must be more flexible, which integrates digital technology and educational innovation, and with a renewed FP that helps create jobs from a greater relationship and interrelationship with the productive system. And secondly, we have a university that has to continue to adapt to the times, with the support of stability and planning that enables it to have approved funding plans. With an improvement in the offers of the titles, adapted, obviously, to the professional profiles of the future, anticipating these demands, and with a bet on research and talent capture. We're going to work so that the German education continues to be a reference to attention to diversity and inclusive school. In this sense, last Friday we held a high-level meeting with different groups to move forward in this direction. We are already working on the normative development and design of a fully inclusive school model based on a new plan of attention to the diversity that we will present during this year. In terms of coexistence, equality and co-education, we are committed to strengthening educational policies with a comprehensive approach adapted to new times. Of course, we must also act on all kinds of harassment or cyber-sense behaviors at school. We continue to bet on teachers, on their stabilization through ambitious public job offers. This year we will celebrate the tests of the broadest call of our recent history, about 4,000 squares, 3,894. And we'll soon start working at the OPE next year to further expand and consolidate public employment in education. We will also continue to promote the continuing training of teachers, so that digital and language skills are updated and thus contribute to the collective improvement of students. We are convinced, without a doubt, that we must continue to bet on multilingual teaching, which opens opportunities for personal, social and labour growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic also gives us many lessons and we must be able to learn from them. Because of the needs that the coward brought, we can learn to keep strengthening our education system. We are all more aware now than ever that schools are not just buildings, they are not just mere buildings, that we can make decisions that contribute to making them healthier, more orderly, safer, more creative spaces. With this goal, in this month, we will put in place a plan, and without time to waste we will start working with everyone, with architects, with teachers, with directors, with families, with mayors, etc. It won't be the only new plan. In this new legislation, we take the challenge of equipping Galicia with a digital and technological educational transformation program in educational centres. We start from an approach that integrates equipment, content and the adoption of digital skills and STEM. We want to take one more step by incorporating learning about artificial intelligence, and doing it cross-sectionally and with specific subjects for all educational levels, from primary to university. After completing the vigorous Welsh Strategy for Digital Education 2020, which, as you know, had as force lines E-Dixgal and STEM competences, Galicia will give new impetus to digital competences in education, paying attention to infrastructure, equipment, content and pedagogical methodologies. We hope to present, in the next few months, the details of the 2030 Edition, but it will mean a leap in the Greek teaching. A leap that will cover, among other issues, basic aspects for the present already, but, above all, for the future, such as artificial intelligence, robotics, STEM vocations, intensive technologies, design of creative poles, workshops of ideas in the centers themselves, accreditation of digital skills in the educational community, integral training of professors in digital education and specialized digital resources. And all of this is supported by the creation of a centre specialized in digital education and also in innovation and educational research, which aims to make a high-quality leap in areas such as teacher training, the design of teaching strategies or the introduction of new teaching techniques. Together with digital, scientific and technological skills, the Council is also committed to the empowerment of the student's literacy skills. That's why we will continue to improve the network of school libraries in Galicia, with the expectation of encouraging and supporting school libraries in rural schools. The library renewal process will be carried out through a new plan, the LIA Plan 2021-2025, which will involve new actions and will also allow to continue with the line of work in recent years, which places this Council program as a reference for other autonomous communities. Faced with the challenge of reactivating Galicia, we bet we further strengthen the FP. And we do so from the conviction of the need to improve the certification of professional skills and to generate training routes to complement them. This spring, we will present the Welsh strategy of FP 2021-2025. This strategy will order educational policies aimed at adapting the Welsh FP to a number of challenges: technological innovation, digitisation, artificial intelligence, 4.0 and 5.0 contours, etc.; the improvement of professional qualifications and qualifications as well as entrepreneurship; the necessary strengthening of dual FP and FCT; the drive for a greater relationship between the centres and the entrepreneurship, or an improvement in employability and the possibility of job integration of the graduates. In this strategic reformulation to maintain the FP as a government priority, we will pay particular attention to a definition -- or to the definition, better said -- of an attractive training offer, which can already introduce improvements towards the next course. Also the expansion of the Network of Integrated Centres of FP, ICFP, or the development of the process of evaluation, recognition and accreditation of professional competences. And we'll work, of course, so that the center of innovation of FP in Ourense will come into operation in the next course, in the next course 2021-2022. In this legislation we also want to advance in the empowerment of artistic teachings. Education is the corner of culture, and we're working on a new plan, in Plan Educ-Arte 2021-2025. With this plan we plan to improve the curricula and the functioning of the centers that impart music, dance, plastic arts and design, as well as the conservation and restoration of cultural goods. With this we also intend to put artistic teachings instead of privilege and exit for the following years. It's also obvious that the pandemic has altered the rate of learning. But we can't allow this crisis to pass on our bill. So this year we've reinforced the framework program, and we've done it with more teachers than ever before, with only one goal: that no one stay behind. But we can't conform. This course is being very demanding for all and has a situation that affects the training process. To compensate for possible effects we will identify those weak points in student formation, and for the new course we will launch the Recovery Plan; a plan that aims to design educational strategies for recovery, so that the pandemic and its effects do not affect the educational process. I mean, we'll recover from the effects of the hidden situation so that education doesn't feel bad. To finish this first intervention, I also want to refer to the projects that we understand -- are fundamental to the University System of Galicia. In the coming years, autonomous policies will be geared towards further increasing collaboration and cooperation with the institutions that form part of the Galician university system, the SUG. The Greek public universities have and will have guaranteed their future. Even so, the legal framework enables the creation of private projects, as may be the case with the recognition procedure of the Intercontinental University of the Company, at this stage in processing. We have already started work to update the university funding system, to achieve a blockage of its funding, to allow medium-term planning of universities, to improve the internal efficiency of the system and to report to society, and to train professionals that Galicia will need in the next decade. The definition of this funding plan, which will cover from 2022 to 2026, will develop throughout this year 2021. Another important axis for this legislation will be the design of the new title map, which updates the agreed offer in 2017. In these years, we have the challenge of improving the current offer of titrations, through four options: the first, by reviewing the autonomic regulations in this regard; the second, by improving the duplicate titles on demand and others of low reception; the third, by implementing fifteen new masters, accords with professional roles of the future, presented very recently; and the fourth is to pose around ten new degrees, which close the Greek catalogue with titles that cannot yet be studied in Galicia. Following a recent parliamentary agreement, we will try to coordinate and consensualize a new titration map; a new titration map that supports university funding and will enable us to respond to the new needs of society and the labour market. In this process, several criteria will be taken into account, including: the adjustment, the specialization of campuses, the interuniversity, international or dual character of titrations, the incorporation of innovative educational methodologies, the practical and applied orientation of studies, and the existence of material and human resources necessary to impart the different careers. And finally, I want to refer to the Council's bet on research, research and talent capture from the university field. And we do it from the conviction that it will be a fundamental element to contribute to Galicia's reactivation as well. In this legislation we have to deepen the work done, and that's why we're going to define a new scientific career in the SUG. A new scientific career that enhances and gives stability to university researchers, and that takes advantage of the potential of the Network of Research Centres of the Greek University System. And I'm done. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, from the Council, we have a roadmap that passes through actions in front of the pandemic and by others oriented towards the reactivation and future of Galicia. We believe that from culture and education we can achieve new levels of development and progress for our land and our citizens. There is no doubt that it will be a legislation marked by the current pandemic crisis and that it will affect the whole of society. And we commit ourselves to continuing to work to improve knowledge and respect for our past, and from now on prepare the future of our cultural sectors and our students, at all levels, because at the end they will be the Greeks tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u61	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] First of all, the parliamentary groups have the word Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, representing the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, I would like to thank you, on your own request, for presenting the lines of action of the department you are directing. It was an extensive presentation, with a wide range of measures. I'm not going to repeat that reference I made to you from the Ikea catalogue with respect to everything you just announced here, which is practically impossible until you take note. It would be interesting if the parliamentary groups were to count in advance -- even if it was a simple scheme -- with the measures you announced. Of course, we agree that this course start was the most complex of all recent history, that in the course of the measures put in place by the Council, we consider, of course, the maintenance of face-to-face. It's an essential thing that has been achieved, not in all autonomous communities -- some of them, by the way, governed by the People's Party -- but the fact is that this goal has indeed been achieved here. Of course, we are a disciplined society; it is very disciplined teacher and very disciplined students and their families. What could go wrong with so many initiatives, with as many plans as you have presented? Well, obviously, there's a margin for uncertainty. Obviously, -- and by following the same order of his intervention -- as far as culture is concerned, this parliamentary group has said so many times in this chamber since this pandemic began: this crisis has shaken our culture in a very worrying way. The measures decreed by the cowardly system have affected the vast majority of cultural companies, and today more than half have not recovered their activity. And forecasts point out that the productive system of culture has suffered a more severe impact than the whole economy, with the worst expectations in small business and the stage arts and music sector. We are therefore presented with a crisis of long consequences and whose effects can only be mitigated with the right treatment. Expert voices warn of a time of suspensions, delays and uncertainties in a sector of great work vulnerability. Something that the pandemic has shown, mainly due to the exceptionality and intermittentness of its activity. And so, Counselor, it is necessary to bet on culture as one of the main lines of action as an engine of economic recovery. And let me tell you, Mr. Counsellor, that, by a lot of figures and by many of the programs you're talking about, the cultural sector continues to be in agony and increasingly tired of the lack of expectations. Shortly after the health crisis began, you approved the Plan for the Reactivation of the Cultural and Tourist Sectors; a plan that was widely answered by the entire cultural sector and which was as the December 2020 horizon. And the success or failure of the actions that contemplated nothing we know. You say some continue in time; something that is obvious because they already existed. But what about the news? Have you considered that this lack of respect has been sufficient for the entire Greek cultural sector and for the parliamentary groups themselves, I have submitted the report on the state of the Reactivation Plan, the cultural sector, of 26 November 2020, drawn up by its department and with a few lines of extension? And the worrying thing is that nothing was justified in that document and nothing is justified now. Because, Counselor, we ask them again: do you know the scope of each of the measures put in place? Recovering or reactivating doesn't mean doubling the budget of the games -- by the way, very little new -- and taking out what there was, no. A reactivation must be equipped with an evaluation. You know how many audiovisual companies have closed because of the crisis, how many bookstores? How many jobs have you kept in the music industry live or performing arts? It's very good that we're talking about resource injections from the Galician integral dance plan, that audiovisual hub funded from European funds, which at the moment is just an intelligence -- they actually give a hub and they're still dealing with the sector in which it's going to consist --. But what else are you doing to secure the structures of our culture? In view of this evidence of concern for the cultural sector, the Socialist Parliamentary Group reiterates the need for a rigorous analysis of the effectiveness and efficiency of each of the measures developed during this time to decide whether or not to continue. The industry needs a new plan, at least, to double the budget of the first, to apply new resources, to establish direct aid -- as they have already done, for example, in other autonomous communities like Catalonia -- or to open new cultural circuits that arrive to stay. Officially known as the decision to extend Xacobeo to the year 2022, the plans of the Government of Greece for the world of culture for this celebration should already be known, bearing in mind that many of the alternatives to support this sector depend on or depend on this event. But we don't know anything, and industry has a lot of doubts about the future, which they don't know anymore, about programming, about what's going to happen to their projects. Obviously, you have a broad-based counseling, and therefore within time -- it's limited what I have -- and by referring to certain statements that you said, like, would slide the uncertainties of LOMLOE given the chaos that originated; LOMCE is not for you to say anything else very different. You made reference to something in your introduction that Galicia was going to be a reference in linguistics. Then it's true that, when he talked about measurements, he devoted little less than half a minute to him. But what's right is that -- for a lot of equality, for a lot of equity that you want to present inside this camera and that you repeat your official data permanently as a mantra -- there are very rigorous indicators and studies, from a socio-linguistic point of view, which indicate that things don't go as well as you want to paint. And much less from the point of view of competition in foreign languages, in which, by the way, in our autonomous community -- as they indicate permanently year after year, course after year, the comparative studies that the Ministry of Education does among all autonomous communities -- we are the tip of the iceberg as to language competition, according to you. But the truth is we're at the head of the state where we call "other experiences", which suppose there's no continuity in courses given in foreign languages, and you bet on a segmented model that we think is deeply disappointed. You talked about the network of integrated vocational training centres; a particular theme of this council that I'd like to make a couple of references because I don't have much time and there's a lot to talk about. In Spain, Counsellor, there are 2,632 vocational training centres, 183 of which are in Galicia, representing 6.9 % of the total state. But if we talk about integrated vocational training centres, there are 69 in Spain and 23 in Galicia. This means that 13.6% of the total of integrated vocational training centres in Spain are in Galicia, compared to 6.9 of ordinary vocational training centres. Here is a obvious lack of agreement, because you have not evaluated the adequacy of the current configuration of integrated centers to those targets that are intended for these centers to respond to. Carmen Marita, when we both talk, whatever, win or lose? Are we wasting time? Shall we take care of ourselves? And, of course, since you also talked about dual vocational training, not even all the integrated vocational training centres are providing dual vocational training in this course, only 14 of them. And there are twenty secondary schools, therefore, ordinary institutes, to differentiate them from the others, who are actually providing dual vocational training. You created a supposed Welsh network of dual vocational training dynamization, and I wonder if it's still existing or if it's been a flower of a day; if it's producing results or it's those projects that you never evaluated. Because, Counsellor, in the course of 2019-2020, there were dual vocational training in our autonomous community 1,436 adults -- they are official data published by the council itself --, that is, 9.6%, and in the course of 2020-2021, this where we are, is 1,626, 10%. The goal for 2020 -- you know it -- was to have 5,000 students in dual vocational training. Now they're going to present a new plan, I think 2021-2025 -- if I didn't take the note wrong -- and we'll see what targets they're putting into that new plan, because, of course, the old target is reached at 32.5%. As for E-Dixgal -- which you talked about --, this would deserve almost a full monograph. The problem with E-Dixgal, Counsellor, aside from its implementation as regards the number of schools and the number of students, is that you know perfectly well that it is given to the centres the possibility to provide E-Dixgal without being guaranteed at any time that students receive all subjects of 5th and 6th primary or 1st and 2nd ESO within that plan. So in nothing supple, but in part, the ordinary text book, to understand us. Therefore, Counselor, to me what if I would -- to finish this first shift -- is that you, apart from presenting this whole catalogue of initiatives, were able to tell us that you're going to change all that terminology that you used to name the plans with respect to the reality that our current education system presents, that -- let me tell you and repeat --...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u64	...I don't think it's bad by far, but it's definitely better. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u66	Mr. President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. It's equally ironic, Counselor, that you, that he has a certain joy of calling out "childish" some arguments that don't give him the reason -- he recently did it with a partner in the last full -- come here, somehow, reproduce the same exercise that he was also doing some classic character in a child story. You, Mr. Rodríguez, came to do in this full exercise the same as that emperor of Andersen's tale, who was proud of the streets of his best gales to impress, I suppose, his subjects, until he was - You do it! -- curiously a child -- so, look!, Counselor, with child arguments -- which showed that that Emperor's suit did not exist, that he was naked and that it was simply deception and propaganda. What we've come to hear today, Mr. Counsellor -- Mr. Álvarez has already put it forward -- is a new chapter of autobomb, hyperbolic propaganda, advertising after announcement, which is only concrete in press notes and powerpoints. So let us add to that request that at least a certain outline of the matters to be dealt with may be established. [[Applause]] But we, Counselor, are going to tell you with all honesty and also with all constructive ambition: in front of the stories, what we want to address here is accounts. Data and dates that reflect in a clear and transparent way -- just like the costume, do! of the emperor -- what was the role of the Education Council throughout this pandemic and which are, in some ways, also the implications that any of the proposals you bring may have in the future of the education system and in the future of the cultural system. Let's start with the origin, because that's what you marked and what determined the situation we live in the education system: teacher, counselor, after the announcements you just made about the OPE. You have, since 2009, subjected the public education system in Greece to tensions of personnel, resources and means that have motivated the impact of the pandemic on public education to be exponential in its intensity. Take as an example what happened to the staff paintings: Year 2009, academics: 5,283 teachers; year 2020: 5,582 teachers, at the beginning of the pandemic. An increase of 5.56%. Private education: 7,749 teachers in 2009; 8,174 teachers in 2020, at the beginning of the pandemic. An increase of 5.48 %. Professor of Public Education, Counsellor, year 2009: 31.375 teachers; year 2020, at the beginning of the pandemic: 30.042 teachers. A reduction of 4,25 %. They increase the data of private and concerted education, and reduce public education teachers by 4.25 % at the beginning of the pandemic. And logically, this has had an impact on coping with the situation we live in. An educational system unfairly treated and weakened for years that greatly hampered the management of the pandemic in the educational community. Proposal, Counsellor: You recover the wages and labor rights of the Greek teacher. Proposal, Counsellor: regain the ratios established by class; maximum ratios per class: 20 pupils in childhood and primary education; 25 at most, in the rest of the lessons learned. Proposal, Counsellor: You recover the hourly burden that you have increased to the teacher, and it is returned to the one that was established. And I think another point that's fair to address, as soon as you came here to talk about management in terms of anticipation, okay, we're not going to talk about protocol management, semi-presensitivity, which I think somehow became clear at the time. But it's true, Counselor, that I don't know if you understand by anticipation that since March 12 the pandemic began, you first convened the School Council on September 9, six months later; you first convened the Education Committee, to meet all the difficulties we had in the academic course, on September 21, six months and a half later. Is this, Counselor, what since the People's Party and since the Government of the Galician Union do you understand in advance? But the same happens in relation to some of the ads you just made, for example, with what happened to those plans that affected the most needy and most disadvantaged sectors of the educational community: Virtual education plan, November 6, 2020; a central plan for the academic dynamics of the student and published six months later. I hope that when you speak as an advertisement and as a proposal for this digital plan for the educational community, it's something more serious than these three textbooks that presented to the educational community to manage an unprecedented situation in the history of our educational system and in a pandemic situation. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows the House some papers.]] Three sheets were what they did. I hope there's a little more solvency in your ad. And so it was, Counselor, that on December 2nd they had to rectify the famous AVA. [[Applause]] And the same happened to the Special Educational Needs Plan: three leaflets! Here I must admit, Counselor, that you have reached agreements and consensus. The agreements of all sectors of the educational community, including those closest to the People's Party, to say that this Student Care Plan with special educational needs was an insult to the entire educational community. So, Counselor, and we're already getting to some questions and some proposals from what you've done: universities. You come here to announce a university funding plan when you know perfectly well that the Group of the People's Party, last year, denied in the processing of budgets that this budget would be extended, and we're again -- as indicated by the BNG -- with an extended budget. University funding plan? Yes, but endowed with resources that go beyond allowing them to carry out the regular expenses of the university. So you were talking about the issues -- little by little, you have to say, Counsellor -- about language. I, Counsellor, do not know whether it is understood in respect of the Greek language that twice vetoed the presence of the organizations that have signed the proposal for bases for linguistic normalization in this parliament. I don't know if you understand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the year of 40 years of the Statute of Self-Government we have as a star measure, right? -- I say it because it's a reference that you usually bring -- but that you have as a reference, as a star measure towards the promotion of Greek, for example, the investment of 1.5 million euros in the international series 3 Ways. [[Applause]] It announces it as an investment in German audiovisual support and it turns out that, today, that great support for the Greek audiovisual world can be seen in Amazon Prime in 300 languages, except for -- see if you're right, Counsellor? -- the English language. The Cultural Reactivation Plan systematically announces. We see that in 2020, it cannot even be developed, nor can concrete measures be envisaged. But, Counselor, you just voted here against a Welsh law of cultural rights. Do you want to make a cultural development plan that doesn't reflect the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks to receive culture? You have just voted in this parliament against culture being declared an asset of cultural interest. You're glad there's an investment of EUR 9.6 million in budgets for Agadic, and they haven't been able to explain what they are yet. If the problem you have, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that they spend more ink on writing press notes than on developing the plans that you yourself propose. [[Applause]] Counselor, I share -- do it! -- and here I want to focus on contributing to that proposal, the importance of this country sinking on the way to the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. But the reality of what we have today is that in language schools, for example, of the Raia, you can study Italian, and you can't study Portuguese. And in schools like Ribadeo's schools you can study languages that have their impact, which are of their importance... but in a country that aims to deepen as a cultural objective, but I insist that also as an economic and central objective for the future development of this country, as is the Lusophony and as is the Euroregion Galicia-North of Portugal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u68	... -- I'll finish, president -- language schools don't offer this kind of teaching. I'll continue after trying to sink into some of the subjects you brought, Counselor. Of course, this country needs to go forward with all its might, with all the intensity of this pandemic, but to go forward we need something more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Lourenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u70	...that ads and powerpoints. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u71	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor Mr. Roder Tato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all of you. Counsellor, thank you for coming to this chamber today to advance the main lines of work in which government action will be laid down on three of the fundamental competences to understand our autonomy and our uniqueness as a country: education, from childhood to university age, culture and the defence of the promotion of Greek. Galicia has its own and differentiated educational model that has to continue to improve every day to keep up and, if possible, improve the results achieved in recent years. An educational system based on the constant search for quality, inclusion, equity and plurilingualism. A system that places the center of its action in students and teachers, also adopting new technologies as an essential tool for training in skills learning. But -- as it has been highlighted here on many occasions in this chamber -- the organization of this course, of a regular school course, is complex, and to launch the 2020-2021 course with all the health uncertainties derived from the vault, it has been an even greater effort. This pandemic, which has led to an unprecedented crisis in all areas, also subjected the greatest challenge in history to which our education system has faced. Therefore, from this parliamentary group we want to highlight and thank the supplementary effort, not only of the directors and officials of the Council, but also of all the children, boys and girls, men and women who are part of the education community in Galicia. The latter, in addition to the effort, should also be grateful for their commitment and their ability to adapt to the new exceptional measures and circumstances that brought the pandemic. That is why we must only outline the plan of what we have given ourselves in Galicia to address the start of this exceptional course. A plan that suggested an additional investment of 162 million euros and which had two thousand and three hundred new teachers who joined the classroom these years. Mr. Lourenzo, it's very nice to talk about stories, but I'm also going to give you the data: Galicia's rate of inter-internity is Spain's lowest in the faculty; wages are approved above the average of Spain, and this year's biggest market call is offered. But I'm going to give you more information: investment in teachers in the year 2008 in Galicia was 1,33 million euros; in 2020 the investment in staff of this council was 1,461 million euros, and in the year 2021, 1,558 million euros, which you believe, of course, the stories you brought us here today. Accounts also at universities, where you're complaining that at university you're not betting. Galicia invests 0.78% of its gross domestic product in universities, compared to the average of Spain, which is 0.50. I think it's data that believes the effort that the Greeks are making for our educational system and university system. I believe, Counselor, that we must continue on this road already begun, to continue to maintain that effort and to continue to work to strengthen the teaching of Greek. An effort to boost the work of the Education and University Council, which translates into the 2021 budget, into the highest budget in the history of our community: EUR 2.698 million, which represents a nominal increase of EUR 167 million and a percentage increase of 6.60 %. An budget that is used to guarantee and shield the quality of our education system, from childhood to university. An budget that allows for innovative programs such as the Virtual Education Plan, which guarantees the educational process in all scenarios, and the Vulnerable Student Care Plan, so that no one stays behind, whatever their personal and social circumstances. This budget allows Galicia to have one of the best half-percentage of teacher-student, located in 9.2. And that's not a story either, Mr. Lorenzo. And to be able to count on an educational reserve fund of 7 million euros, ensuring that all educational institutions have all their needs covered, I don't think it's a story either. Of course, Galicia has a sensible and coherent roadmap. And I think it's credited with the data that have been moved on several occasions and I'd like to remember: As can be seen from the European Union's recommendation to Spain that the drop-out rate had to be 15 % in 2020, when Galicia reached it in 2018, and that at present we are at 12 %, much below the average of Spain. Galicia achieves very good results in the PISA Report, and this is not a story, and the data is Ratified, in addition to the quality of the education system, because it shows Spain's best average academic performance. And German education continues to be the most equitable in all autonomous countries and communities with similar results. Galicia not only excels in competences such as mathematics, science or reading, but also highlights in cross-sectional values such as respect for other cultures or equality between men and women; something which, no doubt, we must all be proud of as society. Galicia is the autonomous community in which the student claims to be more competent in at least two languages. And we are the most inclusive Spanish community, with 93% of the student with special educational needs in ordinary schools. And the index of job insertion of dual vocational training -- of what has been said here today -- is 91%. For this reason, Counsellor, and for many other things, I believe that Galicia must continue on this path of work to foster an equitable model of quality and to guarantee equal opportunities and training in values. A model that must continue to be based on effort, tolerance, freedom, respect and the role of families. Clearly, for that reason Galicia requires a stable framework that is consistent with all autonomous communities and a stable framework in line with the central government. A state framework that does not approve laws without consensus because in record time the law has been approved by Celá before the Health Act, which is a law that restricts the right to decide for families, which is a law that is causing conflict rather than a language understanding tool. Moreover, he has renounced the state pact for education, so demanded by our society, to address this law. Of course, it's a law that the only happy people are the independent partners of the Nationalist Block Galego there in Catalonia and the Basque Country. We found no one more happy with this law. Therefore, we need a stable framework that meets the criteria set out in autonomic funding, which facilitates adequate funding for educational services in those communities which, like Galicia, contain a large spread of centres and students in their territory, which has a major impact on overcosts, such as school transportation or school dining. A situation that could be well arranged also with this law; a law which unfortunately did not fix it. We need a stable framework that gives balanced distribution of the funds and does not generate protests, even as those generated by the presidents of some of the Socialist Party communities; that there are fair and fair criteria for the sharing of the next generation funds in the field of culture, education and university; that there is no discretion, uncertainty or lack of rigour. We need a stable framework that is set by strengthening vocational training as an innovative and dynamic option, and which supports one of the fundamental pillars of vocational training, which is its body of technical teachers who want to let go of it and, in some cases, throw it out of the street. Therefore, a stable framework that values and not attacks the culture of effort, and does not opt for general approval, but for educational reinforcement, as the advisor has just announced with that new reinforcement strategy. And that allows you to choose freely, and without any problem, between public, concerted or private teaching. So a stable framework -- and Mr. Álvarez referred to -- in culture, because we also need the State Government's involvement in culture. It can't be said by the minister that pandemic and culture are incompatible. We need, finally, to improve our community, a stable framework where the criteria around vacations are not changed; where we can count on the Ministry of Education focused on management with seriousness and responsibility, far from dogmatic positions; where Galicia does not become divided 36.3 million euros in the sharing of the funds covered, in the financing of the autonomous communities of the funds covered, and where, also by step, we ask for it -- and I take advantage of it, Mr. Lourenzo, as the first party of the opposition -- which, at the most difficult time in the history of education, does not encourage such preventive breaks at the beginning of the course, nor do we encourage the sectoral table to be raised by some trade unions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u74	...without making any contributions. What we need, of course, is a model like what we have, a model that uses our wealth to have two languages and a model that respects the freedom of families to choose, as well as the autonomy of educational institutions. For my part, nothing else, Mr. President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. It's the first time in my not very long but if you have suffered parliamentary experience that you question a presentation precisely because you have too much action to develop. I think you should be happy. You'll take note of what I said today, and in four years you'll be able to balance. And there they may say: this gentleman came here to tell us milongas, or: this lord came here to plant a roadmap, to devise a work strategy and to fulfill it. I'm sure it'll be the second. They're calm that I don't have the slightest doubt that this project we are presenting today, which is ambitious, no doubt, that requires a lot of effort, a lot of planning for a whole team of professionals that we're in the Council, is going to occupy them for the next few months, for the next few years. Because we believe that it is necessary for the Greeks today, but, above all, it is necessary for the future, and we have to rethink and reorganize the future, and that is what we must do. Here's a way to follow projects and policies that -- we understand -- are going to be useful; they're going to allow you to have a healthier culture, a better preserved heritage and an education that prepares you, from social cohesion, better for the future, by betting on the basic lines we should bet on: digitization, equity, equal opportunities, better results... finally, where you should worry and worry about a responsible administration like the Galician Union. And Mr. Álvarez talks about Ikea's catalogue because we have a lot of actions. It's true that Ikea's catalogue has a lot of records, we also have a lot of actions. But the criticisms that have been heard here by the spokespersons are about a catalogue, but about a catalogue of products that are not catalogued, because they are the serial critics of every year. Critics that, apart from this, there is absolutely no support for anything and that goes against the evidence and data -- uninvented by this advisor and by this government -- of the comparative data of international reports of the ministry itself, where some of them -- the spokesperson of the People's Party has said it -- show that the Greek education system is good; it has margin for improvement, obviously, but it's very good, and we must be frankly proud of it as a collective. [[Applause]] I thank the spokesman for the Socialist Party for his tone in the intervention. I think it's positive. He recognized that the education system worked well in a very complicated situation; we all know it. All -- families, teachers, political leaders -- we were scared. But fortunately, among all, from administration to management teams, to teachers, to families, to non-doctoral staff, to caregivers, to all professionals in this huge family that is education, about half a million people, we have been able to go progressively reducing and conquering fears. And passing -- as I said before -- a phase of the emergency of fear of a phase of normality and of coexistence, hard, difficult, that disturbed the usual way of working in educational centers, without any doubt. I think we should be frankly proud of what has been done with a margin of improvement, of course, that is a collective success -- teachers, families, children, etc. --, and that I believe that the Welsh education system, and this is demonstrated by the data, is a good system. It's a good system, which we must be proud of. I also agree -- and I don't know if I should worry about myself or you -- in general reading about the cultural sector. Without a doubt, the cultural sector has suffered, and it suffers like all sectors, but perhaps this one is one of the most suffering. Since Janta, from the very first moment, we have had it very clear, for we have been the first autonomous community that has made a plan for reactivation of the cultural sector -- at that time the cultural and tourist sector -- to redirect public action towards those issues that we understand as priority. The most important of all was to introduce liquidity through the encouragement of production in the cultural sectors to maintain employment and to avoid the disappearance of cultural enterprises. Other governments, nominally the State Government, have done nothing. And we took action and there were many new measures. In fact, this weekend we are presenting one of these new measures: the second call of the Jacobean project funds. We've increased the value of up to three million euros to insert liquidity immediately to the small autonomous in the world of culture, the small company in the world of culture, because we have a cultural fabric on a small scale, but we have to act and try to encourage their activity in this case. And the data is known. A few days ago, the Galeg Observatory of Culture, in a study by a statutory body such as the Galician Culture Council, put the data on the table and told us that the incidence, the impact of the pandemic on the cultural sector was less than expected. I don't say everything or much less, but something would have to see the Reactivation Plan, which was able to encourage and boost about four thousand and five hundred events that have developed since its approval. And there's been direct help, and there's direct help for the culture sector. In fact, we just got to know the data of the first rescue plan, which is oriented towards direct aid to the most affected business sectors, including culture. The culture sector in this first plan has "reached" and, if I may, "captured" more than 2.2 million euros of direct aid. So I think we should also take this into account, because on the one hand, the Council of Culture is acting to encourage action and to put liquidity into the work of the professionals themselves and, on the other hand, in this case, the Employment Council, also the Igape, inserting direct help. As I said, there's a catalogue that's uncalibrated, which is the criticism that makes us the Nationalist Block Galego in a serious way. And I was setting an example that, actually, I wasn't very right. Because talking about the king or the naked emperor, I think they'd look at their criticisms in the mirror and compare them to reality they'd see who's really naked you are. I think there's no worse blind than he doesn't want to see. And you're so blind and so worried about making criticism of the government that you don't see the dynamics, the results, or the positive successes of the education system in Galicia. You're in your dark cave, you're in your cave and you don't see clearly what's going on there, you don't see it, like that Greek philosopher. And certainly, of course, his entire speech falls, and they are absolutely naked and almost passed by a scanner. You look at this: ask for data and ask for statistics. Mr. Spokesman, I believe he has already put some data on the table, very clear, of the dynamics and educational processes in Galicia, especially at the comparative level. Look: Galicia has the most inclusive school in Spain. That's not a story, nor is it a taberna comment; that's an empirical fact contrasted and made by the Spanish Ministry of Education. Galicia is the autonomous community that has less difference in results between public and private education centres, and also the one that has less difference between rural and urban education. The PISA knowledge data and Galicia's position within PISA is known. We're not going to repeat them. We also have something very important to which we give great importance: Galicia has a value-centred education, and the Greek students are the most tolerant and respectful, as well as those who have greater knowledge of Spain's co-official languages; an official data. We know very few days ago that we are also the autonomous community that has the smallest school absenteeism in Spain. On the ratio of teachers to students. Home!, you can always get better, always, but we have Spain's second best ratio. In digital education, after the Basque Country, we are the second autonomous community that has a greater implementation and development of new technologies in teaching. In FP, we're certainly pioneers, and we're in the best seats. We are the autonomous community that comparatively in students of FP-alumni of Bachelorship is in a better position, after the Basque Country, we also have to say so. In integrated vocational training centres we are, also after the Basque Country, the second autonomous community that has most of these centers. And that's very important because the employability of these educational centers exceeds ninety percent, and we have to think basically that what is done in an educational center is useful to students. And a vocational training student who is entitled and placed in the business world, where he can develop his work and can develop himself humanly and professionally, is the most important. And we have over ninety percent employability practically immediately, with the FCT, the dual FP, whatever you want to say. Also, of course, in the IES -- Mr. Álvarez is right -- there are very good cycles of FP, but integrated centers have enormous potential, as reflected in our work insertion data. And look at another fact that is indisputable, a data from the Ministry: Galicia is head of investment by student from Spain, saving the outlying communities. Taking out the outlying communities, the Basque Country and Navarre, Galicia has the highest investment per student. I think these are data that speaks clearly of the importance that this Government of Galician Union gives to teaching and education, and I think that sincerely leaves them absolutely naked to you, because its criticisms are criticisms that are not supported anywhere. There's a lot of rhetoric; I recognize that the spokesman for the Block Party has a good rhetoric, it gets him excited. But that's not worth it if behind all this his criticism is not really supported. And the reality is that we have a good, improved education system, but a good education system, which is far above the picture that you have in mind. He spoke of anticipation, for if we anticipate. And I think we've made plans to anticipate the different problems that could arise since the beginning of the course. Some of them fortunately didn't need to be implemented, and I hope they never need to be implemented! Others were partially implemented, and worked and worked well. For example, the Virtual Education Plan has been implemented in approximately 30,000 students. Look, there's some problem, obviously, and teaching isn't the same, obviously. But it worked with a very reasonable level of acceptance. The Vulnerable Student Care Plan. I hope you don't need to activate it! But, if necessary, we have about 4,000 professionals who know what they have to do, with clear and clear instructions to meet the students who need it most. Or the Plan of emotional well-being, which we were the first in Spain to push it, because we are aware that there is a problem, undoubtedly emotional, especially in the student, but also in the teacher at the moment. The university funding plan. Those who have so far been agreed together with universities. Everyone would like more resources, the principals, the board, everyone, but they were approved unanimously with universities, allowing them to have stability and economic-financial certainty that enabled the universities in Greece to be almost a rare avis in the Spanish landscape. They were able to approve budgets in time, shape and time with alkyst rhythms. Compared to other autonomous communities, it is almost unheard of. And, of course, it was extended by mutual agreement with the Rectors, because it didn't seem logical, in a year of pandemic and confinement, to be negotiating something as transcendental for the present and the future of the country as it is a university funding plan. Three ways. Ask this series when we're talking about what you can see -- and it says you can't see -- in 200 countries, in Amazon, and you're going to see it on TVG. I hope that when you see her on the TVG, you're being criticized, we know they're going to criticize her. [[Murmurs.]] But you can see in 200 countries, one of the most important platforms on a global scale in the world, together with Netflix, are the two most important. Here we're talking about promoting the Way, promoting Galicia, okay? [[Murmurs.]] And when they raise their heads and see them, they'll realize that they can like it or not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The world of series, like the world of audiovisual, the world of literature, can either personally like people, but it's a series that promotes the values of the Way and promotes Galicia and encourages pilgrimage in this case. Another question that also leaves a nebula inside the cave to the Nationalist Block is language. We understand that it's part of the DNA; its DNA supports itself in trying to defend the language by saying that they are the only palates of its defense. And he constantly questions the People's Party and constantly questions the teaching system. I think here we have to go to the data, to the PISA report. What does the last PISA report tell us? That Galicia is the autonomous community where students use their own languages more and better. Perfect; unquestionable data. Data from the IGE, which at the time did not like some political representatives. What are they talking about? It increases the number of spokespersons, who speak more Greek today than five years ago, that there is a slight reticence in the use of the usual language in young people. I mean, data that's from the IGE and that's on top of the table. But one question that also seems surprising is that there is very little on the part of the Government of its partners, the Government of the State, if it has defended the teaching model of Greek; an educational model in balance, which does not cause problems, and a model of coexistence. Some political representatives came to question the Government of Spain because it didn't give reason to its partners. It is true that you are ruling with the Socialist Party everywhere where you can, everywhere: Members, Councils... they would rule here if they could, without a doubt -- logical and normal, it's not critical, it's a description of reality. But their partners fully endorsed the educational language policy of the Galician Union; you questioned it, they said it was wrong. Well, if it doesn't make sense, it's fine. That's where it's seen that when they start getting naked they try to get dressed fast, but they don't find the right garment to cover up their shames. But that -- as I already said -- is a matter of everyday life. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think Galicia is doing its work, the Greek education system is the first for a long time. No more, there's been talk here about LOMLOE; a law that is generating and will undoubtedly generate conflicts, in matters that don't affect the educational improvement, which just generate noise on many occasions. And the full educational issues, those that have to do with education, some in Galicia are already covered. Very recently there was a comparative analysis of the principles that LOMLOE posed in the educational perspective and the situation in Galicia. The vast majority, many, were already achieved in Galicia. And we were told by this analysis that we were the most equitable community, that we had the largest network of special education centers, with the greater integration of students into the ordinary system, that we were at the top of the childhood education teaching, that we had a vehicle language that didn't generate any problems. We saw an announcement that there was going to be bilingual FP, here it has been done a long time ago. Finally, a law that I think more than generating positive contributions, it's generating and it's going to generate a lot of doubts in the education system. As we saw with the FP teachers, where after approving and not accepting any amendments, you are now self-correcting your own ministry to try to modify a law that is approved. Which is a question frankly, at least, surreal. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has to care for, without a doubt, and it has to promote its culture, our culture, our heritage, our language, because it is an inheritance from the past that we have to preserve, but we have to prepare for the future. And we have to prepare for the future with an educational model and with a university model that is own, that is differentiated, that is mixed with the rest of society, with the rest of the world in which we live, and that allows us to develop with guarantees in the future. I think that's the most important thing. The presentation we have made today about the Council's actions of what we are talking about is a roadmap of cultural and educational actions that are oriented towards reducing the negative impacts, that there are undoubtedly some very deep, undoubtedly, of the pandemic throughout society, and that we must bet on and work on the reactivation and future of Galicia. In this case, as is my case, two significant and very important issues: cultural and educational issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u77	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, first of all to make a reference to Mr. Rodeiro's statements about LOMLOE. It was a law without dialogue -- you say -- because, of course, it's right to repeat that mantra permanently, to see if osmosis is going to shut up and ends up internalizing that it was a law made without dialogue. You know perfectly well, like me, the months that you've been in public exposure, the delays you've suffered in your treatment as a result of the pandemic, but we're going to say it was a law without dialogue, because it always looks good. There are statements that eclipse any argument made later. So let's say it was without dialogue. [[Applause]] You're talking about the abandonment of the State Covenant on Education. You know -- I suppose -- that there was a slogan of one such Pain of Cospedal -- that, by the way, there seems to be some kind of connection with the "Bárcenas's papers"; I'm not going to say yes or no, I just leave it there because it's in the public opinion, and I'm not saying anything that I have no support for -- who gave instructions so that no sort of state pact could be reached when I was an education minister the current spokesman of the Socialist Party at the Madrid Assembly. But it doesn't matter, either, it's irrelevant. It's all about criticizing the chaos in which the education system is going to be submerged, the freedom of choice of parents thrown on the ground, the autonomy of the centers thrown on the ground, the professor thrown on the ground. It's all wrong, it's all wrong, it's all wrong. And you're all right, all right, all right. This is the summary of Mr. Rodeiro's speech. By the way, Mr. Rodeiro, you spoke as always -- like not? -- of the data that the Autonomous Community of Galicia is among the best, in relation to the ratio of pupils-teachers. See if we can at least agree on the use of the same sources? Because the latest data published in the Ministry of Education don't give a 9.2 for Galicia, it's 10.3, but that's not relevant either. It is true that he has one of the best ratios in the whole state, a clear consequence that we have few students. And you were also talking about the drop-out rate, but voluntarily omitted that lucky difference in the drop-out rate is common in the rest of the state. But no, it's the Greek miracle. Counselor, what is serious is that you say the opposition criticisms are serious, because you always say that. We don't take the evidence into account. We can talk about data, everyone who wants it; we also know how to interpret it, we know how to consult it. And you're talking about the employability of the integrated vocational training centres of 90 percent. What is the employability in the other centers? Are they providing substantially better results? Yes or no? Do you have that analyzed or we just have data that is possibly very similar in the other centers, depending on which professional families, of course, but we say only that of the integrated centers? And you're talking about the virtual teaching plan. I will not doubt, of course not, the ingenious effort that has been made in Galicia and the rest of the state to train the teacher to face a new scenario of suspension of ordinary academic activity, but believe me that I tell him from heart that it will be better for everyone not to have to activate it. Because, at best, the result of that Virtual Education Plan is not as kind as they want us to see. And not because Galicia had made itself in a substantially worse way, nor substantially different; simply because the complexity of the orientation of the teacher's training in particular is very complex, and possibly more oriented to instrumental use than to use with important pedagogical robustness and robustness. One thing -- because you, logically, we all know, you have unlimited time, we have very limited time for everything we have to talk about -- at no time that report that you referred to on the language policy of the Galician Council relies on the support of the Ministry of Education. More than anything because in a mere reading -- although it's in English you can translate with some comfort -- what it reproduces is integration and literally what the Galician Union says, what the Galician Union has transferred to the European Union, not the Government of the State criterion. [[Applause]] Finally, Counselor, you announced a new Plan of Care and Diversity. It wasn't time for the attention and diversity plan. You announced a new Equality Plan, and I ask: this new Equality Plan in educational centres, about what criteria are being built, if you have consistently refused to evaluate what was going on between 2016 and 2020? If it has not been evaluated, do you know if it has been or has not been correct, if corrections have been made, or if we have made a new plan without taking into account what we learned from the previous application? I'm going to finish. With regard to university, you talked about a review of the regulations, an improvement of the duplicate titles, a specialization of campuses... I don't know how many years we've been specializing in them, and now in the new Council plan, they're going to specialize! And I'm worried about that new research and teaching career. Now it turns out that you're going to bet suddenly on research and talent capture. But if we've been listening to that mutter -- with forgiveness for the term -- years of the Council's bet on those lines, stability, and it wasn't time for you to bet on the stability of that personal. And, to finish with, Mr. Counsellor, culture was not a reactivation plan, it was at best a reprogramming plan. In fact, believe me that we wish from our parliamentary group the best success in the field of culture, in the field of education and in the field of university, because the only thing we know today in this audience was the announcement of the title of the chapter, but we don't know anything about the literature behind that title. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u79	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u80	Thank you, President. A previous question: thank you, Mr. Rodeiro, because I don't know if you've noticed that we're at the meeting of the Education and Culture Councillor. I'm saying that because I've been appointed seven times in his intervention and to the counsellor only one. Don't worry that, in any case, next time we'll have more opportunities to debate with you. Today, despite your references, really, allow me to focus on the counselor. The references to the recognition of the teacher, of course we all join in, and of course, it's absolutely fine. What happens is that, in addition to recognition, Counselor, it would be good to act with facts. And we made proposals here: will you recover the maximum teacher-student ratios that you yourself have increased?, will you recover the salary loss that the professor had during the People's Party governments? Will you restore the time you raised to the teacher of the educational community? Because I'm convinced that the teacher and the educational community thank him very much for his thanks, but much more grateful I would be if you were to override these orders that were the ones that caused the loss of salary and labor rights of the professor. And then don't cheat on me, Counselor, that this Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo may believe it, but the people we are in the educational community believe me not. That you're making a play of words between what are the teacher-student ratios and what are the maximum student ratios per class is that, really, believe me that those ratios if they've increased by the People's Party and if they're causing problems, especially in urban centers. It's a trap that, well, I can understand, but believe me that in the educational community it won't be very successful. Language. It's a tremendous subject of language, Counselor. IGE data reflects -- I just checked them -- that 24 percent of students in young people don't use it or use it, because they're also playing the confusion between competition and use. I'm sure you know the difference perfectly, and I ask you not to play the mess with such a sensitive subject. 24% of the student says he knows little or nothing, he doesn't use anything, the English language. And I wonder, where would you be listening to the shouts of the People's Party if in this country it was said that 24 percent of youth knows or uses little or nothing the Spanish language? What's the dynamics we're going to have on the part of the government group? Why do they refer to LOMLOE? Have you read what LOMLOE says about the use of the language? It's just that that's fake. What derives from the fact that communities basically deal with the corresponding decrees. And, really, then they come into some contradictions that are already in the book. On the one hand, Mr. Rodeiro said that LOMLOE contributed to this species -- I don't know -- systematic Gallagization of teaching -- a government law -- and, on the other hand, counsellor said otherwise, that the Government would be added to the positions of the People's Party. Indeed, government gentlemen and party gentlemen who support the Government, coordinate at least a few of their speeches when we're talking about language issues. I don't have time to move much further. Only two questions: Technical professors of vocational training. I have to say that, politically, I say this with all due respect -- understand me in political terms -- : you have to have an armed concrete face to come to this forum to demand that the problems of technical teachers of vocational training be solved, when the People's Party has just voted on a few weeks ago in Commission 4th of Education, that these problems are being addressed by these teachers. And why do they do it? Because it's a lot to put to the government of the state, but as on that initiative, it was also requested that the Board implement a wage increase as long as this solution was not resolved, that is, the Board did its duties; then they voted against it. And you also referred -- and finished, president -- to the report of the Galeg Culture Council barometer, and it's curious because it refers to a decontextualized data. Do you know what that report says, Counselor, -- am I convinced that if you know it -- about the evaluation of the role of the Galician Union in the dynamization of the Greek culture? About 3.6 points less than the previous barometer is established. I'm telling you because now you have your intervention and, besides, you have no time limit, Counselor, you can do it without interrupting. And with regard to language -- to finish --, I think if a topic should unite a Parliament like this is the question of language. I think it's a book irresponsibility that we can't afford. Who is saying that it is necessary to implement language immersion measures in the educational community is such a very dangerous, extremely radical people, such as UNESCO and the Council of Europe. At that level, the People's Party is coming to a strategy of radicalization and competition, you don't know very well that in these issues, you don't know very well which electoral spaces... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u82	...using a millennial language. I shall end by making an honest appeal to which, at least, Mr. Counsellor, at least, lords of the People's Party, in the case of the defence of the Greek, we do not join that car, because it is a car of denial, of hatred and of those who systematically devote their efforts to ending the Greek language. I hope you assume that responsibility. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u83	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Roderio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Álvarez, I am going to say what the European Commission said, because it seems to be said by our group that everything is lost. The European Commission called on the Monitoring Report on Education and Training, with regard to the Celá Law, to invest the time necessary for the construction of a broad and lasting political and social consensus in time, and also called for a bet on the teaching profession, vocational training and higher education; issues that, in fact, the law did not address, nor was it even informed by the Council of State. But I'm glad to know that the law's highest defender is the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block, the highest defender for the law and the highest defender for the minister. Well, indeed, you can already tell him, Mr. Lorenzo, in the situation where the teachers of FP, who don't please anyone, are left to defend the law in this way. The truth is it must be to keep those provincial and municipal governments alive. In any case, Counselor, I would also like to speak of the proposals you have brought here; as Mr. Lorenzo said, I will speak of the proposals and I will also address the Counselor. That's why I want to thank you for your display in this chamber of your department's intentions for the next few years. The truth is, leaving aside any partisan and interested vision, I think today was quite clear one thing: that the Galician Union has a plan to improve public education from childhood to university, has a plan to reactivate and enhance the Greek cultural sector and has a plan for our language to remain a vital element in the present and future of our country. Objectives that, of course, are not smaller, as we're talking about increasing opportunities for children and children in Galicia today and to improve Galicia in the morning. So I think it's comforting to know that, in addition to the pandemic we're living in, everything that needs to be cut in the face of the crisis, advisors are working on doing and, above all, thinking about and developing plans for future strategies so that we can get out stronger of this pandemic. And this is about addressing each of the challenges that we have before us, which we have this board, and of course, because we continue to create our own educational model, supported by the results of a national and international nature, and, above all, by achieving an inclusive education of quality, values, coexistence and equality, which I have already referred to in the previous intervention. You've also talked about teaching that goes through the digital and technological educational bet in the centers through Strategy 20-30, a teaching that goes through the modernization of learning and innovation spaces, and through the commitment determined by vocational training, as well as the strengthening of coordination and the sum of synergies with the three Greek universities. We must also point out the effort that this council is making for the cultural sector, that we must not forget the words of the Minister of Culture. So a plan that you put on table twenty-six million euros, to those that add up to another twenty-three million that are running in this first quarter of the year. Therefore, I think it is essential to support the strengthening of culture, also the strengthening of cultural heritage, in which you spoke of an important plan for restoring and consolidating different cathedrals, after Santiago, and of course the language. I believe that since respect and tolerance is the intention of the Galician Union -- and it has become clear -- to guarantee the future of Greek in all social fields and in all circumstances, and in addition in recent years, Greek has been strengthening as a majority language in Galicia, where today the Greek is more spoken than five years ago. I think we need to keep caressing the new speakers of Greek. I know there are parties here that prefer him to impose; we don't share anything of that positioning. Every time we intend to impose something, Mr. Lorenzo, the results become contrary. We therefore bet on continuing to work on a path in the medium and long term, to keep getting more speakers in Greek and to continue to transfer the Greek to the technological world as well. Finally, in this parliamentary group, we are convinced that the Council has a precise route, with a roadmap studied, dialogued with each of the sectors and that it will allow all these objectives to be brought forward. And in view of that, indeed, we have found the usual one. We found by the Galego Nationalist Block an empty dialogue, making its opposition always, nothing new, unnourished, and that everything, everything, absolutely everything, is wrong, even though the data certify exactly the opposite. So I think we have to keep working in a more formed, more technological, more authentic Galicia and with all the strength of our history and tradition as a people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u85	Thank you, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close to attendance, cultural adviser, education and university.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u86	Thank you very much, President. The truth is, we're at a tremendously complex political moment. I think we are all aware that what we do in the next few years, even in the next few months, will mark the becoming of different actions, of different public services. I think these are times where we have to have a look height according to the circumstances, and we have to try not to play the short race that usually and unfortunately is played in politics. We have to have vision, we have to know what to do. We may be wrong, but we have to try to figure out what we need to do to improve public services. And I believe that, by extension, society, the economy in general and in the field that reaches us, in this particular field, our efforts are oriented and will be oriented towards something fundamental, which is reactivation, which is reactivation from the cultural perspective and reactivation from the educational perspective. Because we have already said that, on the one hand, from the Council, we have a responsibility: to take care of, to maintain, to value, to project for the future our past, our cultural heritage, our tradition, our culture, ultimately. But, on the other hand, we also have a responsibility in the present, with hundreds of thousands of children, with thousands of families' centers, who are right now in school, in high school, in college, in college getting ready for the future. And I think that's a responsibility, that we should leave these watering debates short and see forward. And in that sense, it's our proposal, which is a government proposal, which corresponds to a general line appearance. We didn't come here to make rhetorical flowers or try to attack the political rival in a specific way. It's not the time. Obviously, if they put their fingers in our eyes, we'll have to, too, but it's not the time. You don't think that this political formation, this party and this government only think, as other governments do, on the headline of the next day; they think about what a responsible government has to think, which, by the way, has the majority support of the Greek society. [[Murmurs.]] And that can't be done with flowering or deceit, or powerpoints, because apart from us we're a small country, where we know the vast majority of citizens and they know us. Citizens know us and they know you, too, in general. It's rare to find a Welshman who doesn't personally know a member, sure that yes and very rare a Greek citizen does not have access to a political representative in Galicia and who doesn't know the policies he makes each other, and that's, in the end, what we should put on the table. We've been betting on what we were saying, by a reactivation from culture, knowing that we have a percentage of Welsh and Welsh people living in it -- 30,000 people around it -- that we have to encourage their work, that we have to protect them at this time so hard and so difficult and knowing, in addition, that culture is part of what we are, our identity, and that it's fundamental. To be a free people and a people with a future, we have to be a cult people, and we certainly have to work on that line. The same is true of language. The language is a reference. The language is no one's; a political party cannot take over it. We have our own model in the field of education. From there, look, there was a phrase that I liked the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block. He said the language was not used as a political tool. Please don't do it, because the historical tradition in the last few years of the Galician Nationalist Block was to use language as a strategy of confrontation and differentiation over the rest. I ask them not to do so, not to use it. There we will agree, in having a model like what we have in Galicia, which is a model of coexistence and a model that can be extrapolated to other autonomous communities, because the data of PISA and the IGE come to tell us that we are the autonomous community with its own language where young people know it best, express it and use it -- their own language and both languages -- [[Murmurs.]] That's statistical data, not invented. And I think that's very important; it's very important that you get to know and spread the Greek model: balance, coexistence and respect, mutual respect. Look, there are other models in other autonomous communities, but fortunately, in Galicia there have never been cracks at families asking for lessons in other languages; in other autonomous communities, yes. There have never been judgments here that forced a teacher or a family to have a teaching or not to have it in a language or another language. There have never been constant records for teachers here, and I think that's a value. And despite all this, in Galicia we have the best data on knowledge and use of all autonomous communities. In this, please pay attention, group of the Galician Nationalist Block, to its spokesperson and do not use the language as an element of tool and political confrontation. [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, looking at the morning, we see that we have an educational model -- I think we also quite agree with Mr. Álvarez there -- that it is a reference and it is evaluated by the good results, by the data that are asked for quality, equity, that generates equal opportunities, that it educates in values and that it has to continue to improve constantly, with new educational spaces, with higher digital technology, with a leap towards artificial intelligence. We either want it or not, it's going to condition much of our future life at the productive level or at the level of social contact or human contact, and it's looking for an FP that can give opportunities to students trained there so that their work is useful to companies, it's useful for productive activity, and by extension it's more competitive, and also for them to have greater employability and to find a livelihood and a life based on knowledge and skills that they take or adopt in the education system. Of course, in all this we also have to see a recovery and activation from the perspective of the university. Here the plans and the roadmap are very clear: new funding plan, stability, security and resources and a new map of titrations. We've just presented a first part with the new masters. We have to work for the new titles to close the circle of the training offer and, of course, to design a new scientific career in the Greek university system, to give stability and to generate -- something that is not happening in almost any of the other autonomous communities -- a stability in the personal investigator. Ladies and gentlemen -- it's over -- the way we just presented it, what we have to do, what we want to do. Obviously, now we have to go through it. We did it transparently, we did it honestly and we did it assuming responsibility, because we hope that everything I said today, within four years, can be evaluated whether it was done or not done, whether it was met or not, and from there you can criticize or not. Obviously, the plan that the Galician Union sets up is not what you would propose, that's legal, and is part of the political game and the democratic game, but if we announce a plan, an action, a strategy, they can be absolutely certain that we are going to do it. It will not be what you like, it would just be missing, but if we are going to do it, because we understand that it is necessary for the present and the future of this country. Finally, we are faced with a political action in which there remains legislation that, based on respect and care for our past, focuses on our present and, above all, prepares us for the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u87	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Accumulation of two appearances for their joint exposure The opinion of Mrs. Councilor of the Sea, on his own request, to take account of the impact that the EU's exit agreement on fisheries may have on the part of the United Kingdom, as well as of future action on the defence of Galicia in this matter. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for the Sea, at the request of the 19 Members and Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to explain the content and impact of the recent agreement between the European Commission and the United Kingdom on Brexit in the Greek fisheries sector and the measures it intends to take in the face of the consequences of the
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u88	These two requests are collected. To make this appearance, you have the floor to Mrs. Counselor of the Sea, Mrs. Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I share today in this plenary session of Parliament to note the developments and developments in the fisheries sector in Brexit, the complex, long and dense process it has and may have serious consequences for the fishing and fishing activity in Greece. This is a matter in which we have behind us and before us a wide work, both in solitary and in the hands of the sector, and also in and out of Galicia, looking for a result that, despite not giving us all that we ask and having a dark color, still has some door open for improvement. Almost four years ago he also appeared in this House to realize how we dealt with the process, and he asked that unity and spirit of collaboration for the formation of a lobby movement so that we could keep the fleet on such a complex subject. From that same request, I come back today. Galicia began to work on the analysis and proposal for action against this process from the same moment of knowledge of the outcome of the referendum. On June 24, 2016, we had already contacted the Instituto Universitario de Estudos européennes Salvador de Madariaga, University of Coruña, to report on this. This report, led by Professor Sobrino Heredia, analyses the withdrawal from the United Kingdom of the European Union and its possible consequences for the Galician fisheries sector, from an perspective of the legislative and administrative framework, defining that range of possibilities for exit, subsequent agreement and how to disconnect itself. This step was the beginning of two constants: one, the formulation of a technical analysis in normative and economic terms that served as the basis for our arguments and requests in the proposals that Spain and the European Union made in this negotiation; and two, the presentation, information and participation of the sector in each and every step taken to strengthen, not only the unit, but also the completion and enrichment of the argument that we could use. After this report, there were another four, since we understood that Galicia should carefully monitor the possible effects of this process on the sector, and we work to have the capacity to respond to them. So we also prepared a second that he reported and collected a legal opinion on Brexit and its possible consequences for the Galician fisheries sector, and that he was also entrusted to the same department of the University of Coruña. The socio-economic aspect of the possible impact of the process was analyzed in the document Economic impact on the Welsh fishing of Brexit, formulated by the Research Group on Fisheries and Natural Resources of the University of Santiago de Compostela. Further negotiations and taking into account the scope of the withdrawal agreement from the United Kingdom of the European Union, a new report, under the heading The fisheries relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom after Brexit, was drawn up again by the Salvador de Madariaga Institute, to see the new conditions that brought about this important step. Galicia also sought alliances with other European fisheries regions and, above all, with the fisheries sector. The events concluded with the European Fisheries Alliance, which led to the signing of the two statements by Santiago in defence of European fisheries, were particularly noteworthy and had President Núñez Feijóo as first signer. In the regional collaboration line, there was continued mutual support in statements, analyses and requests within the Conference of Peripheral and Maritime Regions and the Atlantic Arc Commission, where we have always been collaborating with regions such as Brittany or the Loire Country, among others. Even worked with regions of the United Kingdom itself, since Galicia, under the representation of the President of the Union, went to the Cardiff Conference in Wales to give voice to the interests of our autonomous community and to start with what was then the Memorandum of Understanding, signed in June 2018 between both regions. We also do not cease to participate in those forums which have allowed us, on a state-of-the-art or even European basis, to raise our messages with our proposals and claims, as we did at the meetings with the European Union's chief negotiator for Brexit, Michel Barnier. We also actively participate -- and after making an explicit request -- in the special commission created by the Central Government to address the fisheries issues related to Brexit. This participation and our contributions came to bring cause of the comings that were emanated from the interdepartmental working group that on Brexit and its effects was created within the Galician Union, as well as the casuistic collected on the digital platform of personalized advice that started and that served more than a hundred companies. In this process, Galicia has always hoped to reach a long-term fisheries agreement providing a management framework to ensure the sustainability of populations and the conservation and improvement of TACs and quotas for fisheries, bearing in mind that activity should be linked to mutual access to the resource, fisheries and the market. However, as the possibility of a hard Brexit, without agreement, we also defend the preparation for its implementation, if necessary, of contingency measures. If that hard Brexit occurs, from Galicia we move to the central government to defend ourselves: First, that the aid announced by Brussels for the fleet concerned would also benefit from the damage caused by the concentration of more vessels in their areas of work by the abandonment of British waters. Secondly, that the State approved -- and it finally adopted measures in this sense -- a royal decree of transitional measures, so that British flag ships and the capital of Greece that make in Gran Sol can maintain their operations in Welsh ports such as Celero and Burela's. To that end, the central government should equip or strengthen customs units and border inspection posts so as not to collapse the discharges, which we hope they will continue to take shape for the sake of our lengths. Without any pretentious motive, we have to doubt that there is a European region that has done more to defend fishing in this process than Galicia. This is recognised by the European Fisheries Alliance itself and other affected regions, which even consulted Galicia to draw up direct positions on the agreement and the Compensation Fund. The withdrawal agreement in force since February 2020, and with a transitional period expiring on 31 December, was accompanied by a political declaration made at the European Council of 17 October 2019, in which the general negotiating lines were shaped, including fisheries issues. In line with this, on 18 March 2020 the European Commission forwarded to the United Kingdom the first draft of the draft legal text for the future relationship with the United Kingdom; a document laying down the negotiating guidelines adopted by the Member States. To this end, a working group was set up under the direction of Mr Barnier, whose task was to prepare and develop negotiations and coordinate the work of the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council, always under the direct mandate of the President of the Commission. After nine rounds of negotiation officers and a few weeks' impasse, the agreement reached extremes at the end of 2020, exactly on 24 December, and resolved issues that remained for the end of the negotiation, such as fishing. Throughout this process, the Galician Union has always supported the demands of the fleet, as the Second Declaration of the European Fisheries Communities on the future of the fisheries sector in Europe after Brexit, signed in June by the President of the Union, which defends that negotiations in the fishing field lead to the highest level. Even this question was remembered and referred both by this councillor, sending a letter from the Councillor of the Sea to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food on 30 November, and by the President himself, who sent a letter to the Ministers for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 20 December, reiterating the question and positioning in relation to the last proposal which the European Union had made on the fisheries field. In the last moments of the negotiation and seeing the charismatic taking, their follow-up was redoubled on a permanent basis; a question which led to that agreement of the day of Christmas and which brought the result already known. As a result of this agreement, an analysis of the agreement has been carried out since the Council in the afternoon of 24 and in the morning of 25 December, in constant contact with the affected Greek fisheries sector. Meetings of assessment of the agreement were held on 26 and 27 December -- Saturday and Sunday -- with the affected fishing entities and with the Greek representatives in the European Fisheries Alliance, as well as in those subsequent days, also with the representatives of the Malvinas fleet. Of course, our valuation was negative, although it was temporary, whenever we did not receive official information from either the agreement or its terms by the Government of Spain. We continue to maintain that the agreement is extremely negative because 25 % of European quotas were finally handed over to buy access for only five and a half years. This agreement is alarming for the Galician fleet because this policy of pacification is bad in both the short and the medium term. In the short term because it will lose important fishing quotas and exchange possibilities that helped to make our fleets profitable and pulling our distances, where the discharges from the Great Sun are the largest volume of billing. And in the medium term because the possibility of renegotiating in 2026 the United Kingdom in quota form could be derived from demersal species where our fleets are based on their fisheries. In the long term because it seems that the last possibility of strengthening negotiations has been broken, by delivering access to the European markets for British marine products. We hope that they can be balanced in definite terms. Today, which we know the final percentages of the transfers made, which amount to about 25% of the general quotas, but which carry more on pelagic species, and given the published data, the agreement hits Galicia hard for those who make in the waters of the Great Sun and Svalbard, because they lose part of their rights and possibilities for direct fishing, and because in five years they will have to renegotiate an access that will be diminished year by year, and for those who make in the waters of the Cantabrian and Northwest, because pelagic cessions make it much harder to reach extended quotas of species such as the map, the lire or the jury. It is generally negative that the United Kingdom generally abandons the common fisheries policy, as it will not suffer the application of aspects of difficult compliance and that they themselves have advocated for its incorporation into the common fisheries policy such as the rules on disposal of discards; moreover, they will not have to apply serious countermeasures of sustainability with the reduction of ships or fishing when they see increased their quotas with the new arrangements for the joint management of more than 100 fish populations that they seem to be able to continue fishing in European Union waters as well. Moreover, in the European Commission's public notes on the Brexit Adjustment Fund, a priority is given to access to aid for those activities which are directly impacted, so Galicia, by having its impact indirectly marked, may have difficulties in accessing this fund. Since then, Galicia sees how fishing is used again as currency of exchange in Europe, after entry into the European Union itself, despite serious warnings and generalised demands from the Central Government so that in the negotiation there was no transfer of that red line from the fishing assignment and despite the fact that other governments if they defended fishing until the end of the negotiation. Whatever it was, we pointed out then and we pointed out again that Galicia is not going to comply with compensations for this agreement and that it will be belligerent and powerful on this path that can return our fishing rights and possibilities. In this sense, we started walking on that weekend after the Christmas deal, and we did it with the determination of a roadmap and the demand for legal and technical-administrative reports, which we crafted on December 27th. In order to maintain the contact and unity of the sector, the plenary session of the Galego Fisheries Council was held on 5 January for the assessment of the agreement, the approval of the road map and the discussion of possible additional actions which was unanimous. Since then, we went ahead with the commission of two reports that were submitted to the so-called representation body as soon as they were available, taking form that presentation last February 20th. The first of the reports was a technical and administrative nature entrusted to the MarinnLeg Foundation on the impact that the agreement will have on the extractive activity and on the marketing of fishery products, which analyses in detail the contents of the Agreement on fisheries and trade in seafood products, as well as the protection of investments and equal conditions in maritime-fishing economic activity. The second of the reports sheds light on the legal implications of the agreement, and was prepared by the Universitary Institute of European Studies Salvador de Madariaga. It considers that the trade and cooperation pact between the European Union and the United Kingdom which is being applied provisionally may be subject to judicial review by the Court of Justice of the European Union, and on that line outlines two scenarios, one before ratification and another after ratification. In addition to the reports, the roadmap highlighted the importance of maintaining contact and demand to the European Parliament, for which a single letter was sent to the Spanish MEPs of the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries, subsequently holding a meeting with Spanish members of the Committee on Fisheries: Mr Francisco Millán, Mr Gabriel Mato, Mr Izaskun Bilbao, Mr Nicolás González Casares and Mr Clara Aguilera. In the same sense, the search for allies in the Committee of the Regions and among the communities and regions of the Atlantic Arch, which is already underway with the collaboration and approach of the Directorate-General for Foreign Relations and with the European Union, whose work in this process was key. In addition, we have also responded to a request for a meeting with the Director-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, DG Mare, with Charlina Vitcheva, of the European Commission, and with the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries of the European Parliament, Mr Pierre Karleskind, to transfer to them the impact that the agreement has in Galicia and that will take place in the coming weeks. It is worth stressing the importance of the letter sent by President Feijóo to President Sánchez on 28 December, showing the impact suffered by the Welsh Sea-Industry chain and demanding the presence of Galicia in those quota negotiations and fisheries management that take place with the United Kingdom. In the same vein, the meeting of the President of the Union with President Sánchez, who took place at the end of January, also served to demand the establishment of a common strategy for defending the interests of the fleet in the current and future negotiation of fisheries management and fishing opportunities in this process, as well as to promote access to the Brexit Adjustment Fund by the sector and the management of Galicia's presence in those quota negotiations and fisheries management that take place with the United Kingdom. In this sense, it must be pointed out that we have been able to move forward in this demand, and we know that who negotiates is the European Union and does not proceed with direct negotiation or we never intend to do so, but if we want to attend within the Spanish delegation to have hearings, opinions and arguments in support of the Ministry and, of course, also our fleet. Having completed this short-term roadmap, it is now necessary to plan for us to articulate in the medium and long term. We'll do it again -- or that's our claim -- under two fundamental questions, in our view: unity with the sector and the rigor of our arguments. To this end, during the plenary session of the Galego Fisheries Council held on 20 February, we proposed and approved the formation of a working group in which to establish the priorities of the Greek fisheries sector in this field for the next years. We have several lines to follow and one goal: to improve the situation of Welsh fishing in the European context both in fishing opportunities and in the market, especially in this post-Brexit panorama, and as a first step we already have the fixing of TACs and quotas for species shared with the United Kingdom. In this first step and in the following, we agree with the sector in its view that it can be wrong to act hastily in establishing fisheries agreements, since we must take account of the fact that we are in the presence of a negotiation between countries and not exclusively of TACs and quotas. We need to think about the situation that can happen once the five-and-a-half-year transitional period which provides for the fisheries agreement is over and is not precipitated. That's right, without delay, but without pause, we'll keep working. That proactive position already leaves us with proposals to make and that have brought us to several members of the group. These include the development, with the collaboration of the sector, of a study on the economic impact of the possible loss of quota exchanges with countries most affected by the allocation of quotas in this agreement; the development of meetings with Atlantic coastal regions of interests that coincide with Galicia and have a high impact of the agreement in fisheries terms, particularly the French as well as the Irish; the proposals for drawing up, in collaboration with the Fisheries Alliance, a third letter of support for the European fleet following the agreement; and, finally, the development of a line of amendments to the Brexit Adjustment Fund Regulation within the Committee of the Regions and the Assembly of the Atlantic Arc. It should be stressed that we also proposed that a representative of this working group should be able to attend meetings with the Director-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries of the European Commission and with the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries of the European Parliament. He said in May 2017 that we had work ahead and that we would have, in good insurance, to go repositioning elements and arguments in a living process, that it will not be short or easy and in what we should support each step to make the need for virtue and prevent the dispersion of efforts from leading us to provide unwarranted information to state and European negotiators. These words, this attitude and this pretension remain fully vigilant and in the same line we will continue to work. Making how many sera with solutions easy to complex problems never seems to be a good course, and we want the best and safest port for the Welsh fishing, and that requires dedication and effort. We need, like four years ago, the arrivals of all of us, the experts, the sector, the administration and, if not, of this Parliament, we all need this process and I believe that we must all be involved for the sake of the maritime-fishing sector in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u90	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We started the round of parliamentary groups. First of all, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u91	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I didn't want to go through my first intervention today at the sea councillor's appearance without showing the recognition of my group, the PSdEG group, to the work and the role of women in the fisheries sector, which we can't overlook because it's a traditionally male sector; so yesterday these women claimed that we all need to go in the same direction to achieve that much-needed equality. And I'm sure all of us in this House will work. [[Applause]] Of course, the counselor said Brexit's impact had been hard on Galicia, and she criticized in her speech this agreement reached. But it's just that I ask you again if you prefer that our fleet had been expelled from British waters on January 1st, because since the PSdEG we say that, even if it's not the desired agreement, the agreement we started at the beginning, of course, it's much better to have reached an agreement that our British water fleets would be expelled. And it seems that people from the People's Party, who also had institutional representations, like someone who held the People's Party's Government Fisheries Council, Mr. López Veiga, said and acknowledged that Spain had not come out of this agreement too badly. The truth is, I was very sorry to hear -- or insinuate -- in the counsellor's mouth, especially a sentence. He said that, despite the fact that other governments have defended fishing until the last minute... what do you mean, Counsellor, that the Ministry of Fisheries has not defended our fishing sector until the last minute? You know that wasn't so, because you've been working until the last minute. [[Applause]] You're very gifted to hang medals when you think things go well and you're also very gifted to leave the boat -- let me tell you -- when you think things don't work so well. You also said something that surprised me in connection with Brexit and these negotiations. He says they don't want direct negotiation on the part of the Galician board, because we know we can't either. So there's a problem with your parliamentary group, because they're asking for that direct negotiation and so they're voting on it in a number of initiatives in this House, there's very few full. Today I understand that you are in this House to talk about Brexit's negotiations and consequences in fishing, but we seem to forget that the Brexit agreement is a global agreement and that in Galicia we were playing a lot, and beyond fishing too, because the implications would not be lower, for example, for automobile exports, which were playing 600 million, for those in the textile and footwear sector, which were running around 500, for those in fish stocks, which exceed 40 million, or for blackboard exports, which would suppose more than 50 million, by setting some examples. The deal is an agreement -- and you need to remember it because it seems obvious -- that saves the movement of goods. This is a zero tariff and zero quota agreement; therefore, imports and exports from Greece will not be subject to tariffs or volume limits. However, when you leave the single market, if you will be subject to customs procedures, which will also bring more paperwork. The British merchandise that is received in Spain, and of course in Galicia, will be treated as that of any third country, as will the Spanish that is downloaded in the United Kingdom. I mean, tariffs are not yet applied, tariffs are not going to apply, but sales in these territories -- and of course also the sale of fish -- will have to go through the control of External Health and Customs. We all knew that not all the ports were able to receive the fish from the alien. You said the Government should do this, especially to enable certain ports, such as Celero's and Burela's, to which the Central Government applied an exemption. The Council of Ministers approved the inclusion of both ports, along with Pasajes and two others in the Canary Islands, in the lists of maritime terminals where ships can be downloaded from the United Kingdom -- a relationship of ports which, by the way, had not changed for more than ten years -- The port of Burela and the port of Celeiro were recognized in the BOE as border inspection points within the framework of new commercial relations with the United Kingdom. That is, the two ports of the Navy are shining, the most important ones in the Cantabria, will be allowed to receive fish from British flag boats. And by focusing on Brexit's fishing agreement, I mean, between January 1st, 2021 and June 30th, 2026, we have that adjustment period. During this period, Iraq will implement a partial transfer of European catches into British waters to the British side, and it will reach 25 % of the volume of catches. But it's important to remember, because it's not said here either, that the United Kingdom was asking for an 80% reduction in thirty years. Reached a cut of 25% in five and a half years, an 80% cut is required in three years. That's what also got that ministry that doesn't seem to defend fishing until the last minute. The main effect for Galicia of Brexit is to finalise negotiations between the European Union-United Kingdom and the European Union-United Kingdom-Norwegian to establish definitive fishing quotas for all Member States and therefore our ships. At the Council of Ministers for Fisheries of the European Union of December, only one advance of the quotas corresponding to the first quarter of the year, except for the cabal, which was approved 65 % of the annual quota; it is definitive that it will be known in the Council of this month, and that will enable you to know how much they have, the possibility of trading between ships and, ultimately, the business planning of the activity itself. But we must not forget that we are in an exceptional situation outside the United Kingdom of the European Union, which meant that when TACs and quotas were negotiated for 2021 had not yet reached the Brexit agreement and that therefore in many species total quotas could not be reached but an advance quota for the first quarter of the year. But, on the other hand, there are some stocks of southern waters not affected by Brexit whose TACs for the whole year 2021 have been agreed upon at the December Council, for example, the southern fish, in which the TAC was agreed to for the year 2021, when the United Kingdom did not participate in it. The result was a 5% reduction, below the proposed 13% reduction. However, there are reasonable prospects for achieving the adjusted quota in 2021. With regard to the jury, the forecasts are that the initial TAC is located at the same levels as 2020, and in the northern stocks of fish, cock and rap, because no major changes are expected in respect of the 2020 quotas for these three TACs. So, and as for the main species of the Spanish and Greek fleet in the Great Sun, in 2026 -- at the end of the transitional period -- the reduction of the northern fish will be of 1.02%, in the northern branch there will be an adjustment of 2.5 % and in the rape of the north the fall varies between 0.24% and 0.76%. As for the stocks of the South, with species as important as the cabal, the jurel and the codoladilla, it must be said that they will not be modified and that the fishing possibilities are maintained, and there are no transfers in deep-sea species like the beaugo or the alfonsinos. So it's time we all got back together and it's time that these aids that the European Union said they were going to catch up to deal with the consequences of Brexit would be improved, of course. So also from our group, our MEPs are working on it. It is very necessary that these aids should be accelerated to reach our sector, because our sector must face very important challenges, such as sustainability, competitiveness and social cohesion, and for that the sector has funding possibilities to carry them out: in the short term, through this Recovery and Resilience Plan, also through the 2014-2020 GEF, and in the medium term through the new FEM 2021-2027. We therefore believe that the administrations, both central and autonomous, must push for the improvement of the current execution of the GEF and must put in place the new FEMP, with an operational programme that is consistent with the sector and which addresses the difficulties of implementation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u93	...which has found the current fund, because to deal with these major challenges it is necessary to make investments, and therefore it is necessary to make available to the sector new sources of funding that can afford them. And that's central government's work, too, but Galician Union has a lot to say. So it's time to work all together so that too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u94	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u95	...these funds that have to come from Europe arrive as best as possible for our sector. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u96	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, ladies. I would like to begin, Madam Counsellor, by sincerely thanking you for finally having a gap, within your very own agenda, in order to appear in this Parliament. That the most responsible for fishing for this country had not appeared in Parliament since 24 December -- date of the extreme agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom on Brexit -- but since 16 December, which took place in Brussels at the annual Council of Fisheries Ministers of the European Union, where it was decided how much and what species would be able to fish for our fleet during 2021, as I say, it would not appear, is fully understandable if we, above all, take into account the little weight that the fishing sector has economically and socially in our country and, above all, if we are aware that for this we are the media, to explain to Members and Members what the Counsellor thinks on any subject. [[Applause]] Counselor, you're never when you have to be. She's not here, Counselor. It was not on December 16th; it was not on 24th; it was not in the whole month of February, when many seamen banks in our country were literally devastated and razed; and it is not now, when a real response is needed, powerfully, to the European Union's Directorate-General for Maritime Fisheries, who should try to defend our fleet and have just closed it little less than predatory and mafia, just to try to manipulate the vote of the MEPs on the new control regulation. You, Counselor, are never, and, when you are, you don't notice much either. You have traveled to Brussels to the annual Council of Ministers in December to bring the same thing that it brings every year: cuts and reductions in fishing capacity of our fleet. Gallia's lack of political weight in both the state and the European Union is evident every month in December through her own statements. You, in the light of the agreement of the European Union and of the United Kingdom on Brexit, have been limited to one another and a little more. He has just blamed the result on the Spanish State and the European Union, as if he hadn't been with you. The president himself was unable to speak on this subject beyond a letter to Pedro Sánchez. You hid yourself from being a belligerent -- today you repeated it again -- in the face of the decisions made and stood in charge of two other reports to which, of course, this Parliament and the political groups here we have neither had nor have access. Counsellor, you have to admit that this sensitivity that you said you were waiting for from Brussels, you don't have it either with the sector, and it was more or less demonstrated when, surpassed by events, your star proposal was to say -- and I read textually -- "that you will have to consider fixing a minimum quota of fishermen to ensure their sustainability." Now it's funny to her, but, really, the day she said it and she went out as a great headline I can assure her that the sector didn't make any fun of her. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] It doesn't matter to us that you laugh, or that the Popular Group says that what you said is Welsh retreat. That's not good for us. Your great solution to this outcome is to eliminate sailors; and that's what you said, we didn't say. You'll understand that we don't explain how today still continues on that bench, Mrs. Quintana. Brexit is blessed with an agreement that ends in 2026 and implies that the European fleet -- including the Galician fleet -- will give up 25 % of the catches in United Kingdom lockers, and, in the case of the Malvinas, it is still about to see the tariffs it will have to bear. After 2026 negotiations will actually make the species, year by year and species, and I suppose no one -- neither will you, Counselor -- will think that after these five years you will recover the lost quota. At best, you'll have to fight even more every year for minimizing capture clippings. All of this must be added to the annual distribution of TACs from the European Union itself, which year after year is detrimental to Galicia. In fact -- before I mentioned it -- in December 2020, the cut that was made on that Council of Ministers is much higher than the derivative of Brexit itself at this time. The summary is as follows, Counselor: the Welsh fleet in the Great Sun loses rights and possibilities for direct fishing. The Northwest Cantabria's Greek fleet is much more difficult -- as you said in your intervention -- to get extended quotas, for example, actually, in the yard or the jury. The Malvinas fleet is facing tariffs that, as we read, can reach up to 18%. The Greek capital ships and the British flag are threatened by the possible regulations that the United Kingdom carries out to ensure greater British capital weight in the sector and also by the citizenship rights of its Greek sailors, who might be affected. The high costs of bureaucracy and the regulatory burden are already suffering from our fleet since the first of January: advisory costs, new procedures, paperwork, higher requirements for trading with the United Kingdom... And the worst deal is about to arrive, first, this same month, that we need to know how the reductions are definitely going, and second, within five years, that we will be at the expense of an annual negotiation where we understand that the loss will not be recovered and that no link to the trade agreement that serves as a protection for the remaining quotas when this transition period is over. This -- you know, we don't need to tell you -- prevents the sector itself from planning its future, and that in turn conditions that future: on the one hand, the investments that the sector itself and the coastal communities themselves could carry out, and on the other hand, sustainable and collaborative management in the long term of fish populations remains unknown. In short, in the air we have questions such as: what number of boats can fish in British waters after these five years?, for what species will the licences be negotiated?, what quotas will be allocated?, what fishing areas will be allowed?... Anyway... The European Union reserve fund for adaptation to Brexit is another scandal. We don't know if Mrs Otero feels the same, because here she defended the agreement, defended the background and defended absolutely everything. So we think that background is as useful as it is. And, as it is, it is as follows: 5 billion euros, of which only 600 are to mitigate the losses of the fisheries sector of the affected countries, and, in particular, the Spanish State is destined to 184 million euros, of which only 2.2 -- i.e. 0.35% of the total -- are to compensate the Spanish fishing sector. Finally, we assume that when these ridiculous figures are applied to the Welsh fishing sector, it will be to tremble. On this, by the way, Madam Counselor, we haven't heard him say anything yet, and I'm not saying that he had said it in this Parliament -- God set me free! -- but with this matter you haven't even made your point of your usual speech in the media. We think that the annual distribution of quotas and decisions derived from Brexit have to have a determination to minimize, precisely, the impact on the fleet. Let's suppose you're aware -- Mrs. Otero used to quote him to warn her; I just to remind her -- of the agreement this Parliament recently made in front of an initiative by the Nationalist Block Galego. We have unanimously approved, firstly, to carry out, without delay, all the necessary procedures before the Government of the State for the recognition of Galicia as a highly dependent area of fishing. Secondly, we unanimously approve requesting the Government of the State to carry out all the necessary management to promote the revision of the evil called the principle of relative stability, in which, in fact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u99	... -- I'll finish -- the United Kingdom was one of the first promoters. And thirdly, we approved -- not unanimously, but unanimously, but we approved -- to urge the Government of the State to recognize Galicia's direct negotiating capacity and its participation in those issues, such as fisheries, which are particularly relevant. And finally, Mr President -- this is the last point -- we unanimously approve of planning and carrying out contingency and economic and social support plans for the fisheries sector and the areas of our country most affected by Brexit that address the most immediate consequences. Then I continue, because I want to make two concrete proposals. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u100	A lot of gases, Mrs Pérez. You have another shift later. Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u101	Thank you. I would like to thank you, Mrs Quintana, for your presence in Parliament and that, with complete clarity, transparency and sincerity, as you have already done since the beginning of this Brexit process, come here to explain this whole issue here, at parliamentary headquarters. I want to do two punctuations. First, I want to tell Mrs. Otero that it's good to defend female employment. Here, in Galicia, we know him well in the sea-industrial chain, in the canteens, in the frozen factories. And I want to tell you that a member of the Congress of Deputies has just sent me the vote on the Climate Change Act, and you, the Socialist Party, have just voted in favour of the adoption of Article 18; that is, of amendment, nothing. This Parliament's agreements were useless, and the Galician Nationalist Block, too, has just voted in favour. Therefore, the agreements of this Parliament, of which Mrs Pérez is also speaking, are of no use there. I mean, you just loaded yourself and you just directly affected female employment in Galicia, in the canteens, in the debuggers... so, a lot of preaching, but then you have to know how to legislate, and you have to know also in Madrid how to deal with the demands we have here, in Galicia, because that really hurts. And I also want to say that your speeches and votes in this Parliament in Galicia do not follow the facts, as we have seen on other occasions. Mrs. Pérez, Mrs. Quintana has always been. Where were you? I want to ask you. Besides, where are you now? You speak of a lack of sensitivity. Well, I also want to talk to you about the lack of sensitivity. They're all around with that sentence that the number of sailors is limited and they want to say, in addition, that Mrs. Quintana is all she wants is to reduce that number of sailors. That's not true, and you know it well. All they do is turn that sentence around, but they don't have a solid and basic argument to defend or recognize, in this case, that since Galicia, since the Council, an exceptional work has been done with regard to Brexit. Because Brexit wasn't invented by us, by us, by Feijóo, by Rosa Quintana, by the Greeks, by not even by the Spaniards. So in 2016, 51.9% of the British decided to leave the European Union, and here we were and there we were. And we must also recognize -- and we can refer, as I say, to the facts -- that from that moment on, even before in anticipation, Galicia and Junta, headed by President Feijóo, began to worry about this situation, and in a joint and cross-sectional manner from the Sea Council and from the Industry Council -- especially given the degree of commercial linkage of Galicia with the United Kingdom -- began to work. Yes, yes, working, in addition, with facts. Therefore, Mrs. Quintana, the Council and this board have always been, Mrs. Pérez. In addition to the studies, the work, the debates, as I say, of the appearances in this Parliament too, driven by the Galician Council itself, as explained by the advisor, and by this parliamentary group, there have also been cycles, actions, seminars on the possible consequences and how and in what dimensions the Greeks could affect us, and many, most of them, in the fisheries and the hands of the sector, of the different confrereries, cooperatives and of all the mariners affected, who have always been in direct contact with the Council. There is also a study by Fernando González Laxe in January 2020, from the Economic Forum and the Economic and Social Council itself, which concluded that Galicia, moreover, would be of the autonomous communities less affected in economic terms as regards exports and imports, and also in that term is important because they have to know that since the Galician Union Brexit has always been present in the last four years. But let's focus on fishing. Among the many actions carried out since the Union, an important one that seems to have remained in the forgetfulness -- especially after hearing the representatives of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party -- was the insistent request of the Government of Spain to prioritize the fisheries sector in negotiations, and of that, nothing at all. But, as I was speaking at the outset, not only in negotiations, they also do not prioritize the fishing and fishing sector in Galicia in the decisions that later take in the Government of Spain and in Congress of Members with the Member of the Galego Nationalist Block that is represented there and which is always an accomplice to this Government of Spain. Therefore, the fishing has come to an end. They didn't do any cases, they didn't give him the importance that we know he has, and, as the advisor said, there were countries that, yes, they were more insistent, they fought a lot more and those that gave him a higher priority. Today, a journalist at the Vigo Lighthouse says that the "social-podemit" coalition wasn't up to date. We in Galicia know of these poisoned bipartites, we know perfectly well that they do not coordinate and that they form governments with two heads that do not have a common criterion and that therefore they practice partisanism and they do not govern, and this Brexit negotiation in Brussels with regard to fishing is a very clear example. Today, Maroto, Planes and Rivera are not coordinated, and if we join them in Paul Iglesias and his, even worse, with President Sánchez, I am sure he didn't devote a minute to the future of fishing and the challenge of Brexit, but very sure, and, in addition, first, he never spoke of it, and then he never lends a minute of his time to Galicia, to the Greeks, nor devotes time to the Welsh industry or to the fishing industry in Galicia [[Applause]] If anything has to be said about this process in Galicia, if we can prove and assume something, since you never recognize any merit, it's transparency; it's transparency with capital letters. You have access to all the reports. The councilman came in and transmitted almost a minute what was going on in Brussels during the negotiation. Mrs. Pérez, you can't get here to this gallery and say that Mrs. Quintana hasn't been here for a minute, as I say, by explaining and transmitting everything that could be done from Galicia, with the vetoes that the central government itself, with total disloyalty to Galicia, put her on the European Commission itself; and, as always, after reporting and asking for opinion from the Galician Fisheries Council, because she does not get rid of the negotiations either, but goes precisely with the advice and the hands of the sector. That transparency is missed by the Government of Spain and one of the most recent examples is the famous Report of the Council of State on European Funds, which hid and hid until it was the vote of the Royal Decree and then came to light. That's a lack of total transparency. You in this Parliament, as Members, have access to all reports from all legitimized bodies to opinion and to draw conclusions after studies on Brexit. Therefore, Galicia, this Board and this advisor lead and clearly lead the negotiation and future of fishing with regard to Brexit within the Spanish Government. Remember you chose the Extreme. I can't get tired of saying it, Galicia is the autonomous host community and with more experience, and it's also obvious on many occasions, because you come here today, actually, about Brexit, but it's also very worthy to know that the fishing policy that has been practised in Galicia since 2009 is giving good results, because according to Occupesca, the population occupied in extractive fishing in Galicia has increased by 7% between 2015 and 2017, the average turnover per crew has increased by 44% since 2009 and the number of members of the Special Sea Regime has remained stable since January 2005, and even at the rise. In 2009 we achieved the best average price per kilogram of the entire historical series, and 2020, still with the vault, was a good year. So these are positive data and probably this autonomous community, after all these policies have been implemented and positive results, will have enough legitimacy also so that ministers in Spain can listen to it and negotiate in Brussels. Galicia now exceeds the figure of EUR 2 billion in exports of marine products; it has increased its exports of marine products by 80% between 2009 and 2019. So that's important, and they have to recognize you, too, and put on the positive. You in the Galego Nationalist Block are like Nigel Farage, Brexit's promoter, remember? but with quotas and TACs. With a theory that the European Union is not good, now suddenly they bring the lack of sovereignty and the lack of weight and pressure of this self-government. But what are we going to do with the weight of the Galego Nationalist Block, first, before the Government of Spain, as I said, which today voted against the marine industry? And then, in the famous pact they signed, not a Brexit line, not a fishing line. Secondly, the group in which the Galician Nationalist Block is integrated in the European Parliament does not agree with you, which you said here, Mrs Pérez: "Verdes and EFA welcome the agreement reached, but insist that there is time for parliamentary scrutiny." That was what the press said about your group in Europe, and now, in addition, BNG is without representatives in Europe, because an adviser can act as a Member, but he is not yet a European Member. So what are we going to do if the BNG manages to refuse the Welsh fishing? Follow the star of regions like the Basque Country, which saw their fleet dismantled from the Great Sun and from the siege, and follow the star of that Bipartite, in which 538 ships were lost between 2005 and 2009 in only four years. We don't have very good reference because with that average today we wouldn't have a fleet. So what are we going to do, too, outside the European Union, of TACs and quotas, if we are an exporting region and the European Union is the main market for our fishing? We're a fishing region out there, and if we go out, we'll run out of cans. We therefore believe that we must face this debate with responsibility, with work, with care and with loyalty; something that is very missing both the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Socialist Party of Galicia, because now it has the Socialist Party's speech that could be worse. Mrs. Otero comes here and says, "Well, we could kill ourselves. All right, it could have been worse. Yes, yes, but you know a little about history and you review what the Socialist Party has done in the fishing history of this country, you re-edit the entry agreement into the European Economic Community when much of the fishing sector has been limited. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the reality is that we have a socialist government in Spain again, and look at it as bad luck, because we know perfectly well that the Socialist Party has never paid attention to the fishing sector. And you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, said that fishing was not a currency of exchange, but it was; in the end, it was a currency of exchange. When Mrs. Toja spoke in this Parliament at the meeting of Mrs. Quintana in 2017, she said, "Fishing must therefore be part of the negotiations, not as a currency of exchange, but as a fundamental issue to be dealt with." And I'm not surprised that Mrs. Toja left, because they didn't give her any thought, because fishing was currency exchange. And come and look at López Veiga's article, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u103	They wanted to throw it away and now they're missing it. Look, Mr. López Veiga textually said in the article that "the negotiations have ended, and although it is true that Spain may not have left too badly damaged...". That "for now" you withdraw, that nuance, too, you have to take it quite carefully, because that's why Mrs. Quintana is here today reporting. Look, instead of going out here thinking about everything that's going to be or can be now these five years where we've played a lot -- these five years, now, from this very moment on -- you've just come here to criticize the Council of Galicia and criticize Mrs. Quintana. And, as I say, he has a roadmap, he always has it, with complete transparency, and you would have to be more loyal and support Galician Union from here, because they vote a lot in favour of Galicia and then make very nice speeches...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u105	...but in Madrid they totally do the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u106	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica, the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u107	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, thank you very much for your support and your defense. The truth is, it's nice to see how there's someone who has some memory of what happens here in Galicia year after year. Mrs. Otero, the truth is she made a series of statements that are to study and analyze calmly enough. Tell me if I'd rather the Spanish water fleet have been expelled from the United Kingdom. No, neither the European Union nor the United Kingdom. It was never my claim, nor was it my spirit of work. And, quite the contrary, the only thing you really should have to be clear about is the words you referred to by Mrs. Egerique. Was this withdrawal agreement from the United Kingdom important? It was very important. We knew that for all the countries members of the European Union there were many things at stake, of course. That for Galicia, precisely, all sectors are important? Of course you do! The only thing we've demanded from Galicia since the first moment is that fishing had not been used as currency of exchange. And you've got that bully put in your head, and you get them every time they talk. Because today we're talking about Brexit's impact on the fishing sector, and you come back here with Brexit's effect on automotive, agri-food industry, and I don't know how many more. That was the reply given to me by the Member of the Socialist Party, representative of the Committee on Fisheries of the European Parliament. When I asked them about the need to look for support points so that the fishing industry wouldn't get more harmed, they said, "It's just that this agreement is also very important for the automotive sector." Of course you do! I don't question it, but we work to row because, if it's important for the automotive sector, it's also important for the fishing sector. And let us not, as we have always done, give up the fishing sector as a currency of exchange. You tell me here that I've seen some evening criticism about the performance of the Ministry of Agriculture. It's no critical evening, I say reality. We had no formal knowledge of the final agreement at any time; we had knowledge through the representatives of the sector. While in France and Holland their ministers were meeting with the sector, here neither with the sector nor with the administrations representing it; and we learned from the representatives of the sector that are part of the Fisheries Alliance. And I'd like to know if you know who Spain represented in those negotiations with the United Kingdom. Was it representation at the most level or who was representing Spain to defend the interests of the fishing sector? I just leave the question there. Sometimes the truth is, I don't know where they are or what they're hosting me about the statements made by certain representatives of the Socialist Party. On December 29, there was a committee in the Congress of Members, and Mr. Senteros Oraá said: "I think we must emphasize that we are facing a great deal of agreement that provides stability and legal certainty to the fisheries sector thanks to the responsibility of our Government." Well, right now, at a meeting of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Fernando Miranda, said, "It's a good deal, but this shouldn't generate a false sense of security." What do we welcome, one thing, the other or the whole opposite? And, well, I'm very glad that, in the end, the Central Government had agreed to declare the ports of Celero and Burela as ports where the shipment of products from the United Kingdom can be done. But I want to remind you that Galicia has been asking for this since January 2019, and it did the last week of December 2020. Welcome, but I want to say that we have already made it manifest at a meeting where I would have to repeat here the words that were told to me. I was told that I had to understand that the agreement with the United Kingdom was very important and that fishing meant very little. That's what I heard. I agree with the last words that you said: that is the time for us to fix together. Of course, we are always in that disposition, as long as they are maintained in the criteria of defence of the fishing sector, which is the only thing I come to demand as support from this House. And that binds me to what you came here today to ask Mrs Pérez. He says I'm not, I'm not expected, I'm never where I have to be... well, look, I'm where I have to be, I'm always -- whether I wait or not expected -- I always come in, and I'm -- I think -- meetings very often both with the Galician Fisheries Council and with the different representatives of the sector. I don't know where he is, exactly, you, and I don't know where he's expected. [[Applause]] And I'd like you to leave a clear position, not here, but in all areas, because, look, you came here today to talk about relative stability, you came here to speak of Galicia's declaration as a highly fishing-dependent region, you came here to talk about that I don't appear, that I didn't defend the sector, that I wasn't when there were the great deaths of February... I wanted to take a brief look at where you were, where your group is, and what they're doing. When we arrived at the Government in 2009, we inherited three roles from the Government of Galicia's position in the reform of the common fisheries policy. We put ourselves to work and we prepared a document that was approved unanimously at the Galego Fisheries Council; a document marking what was the route of what the Greek fishing sector and the Greek fisheries administration wanted for Galicia. I proposed that, in addition to having the agreement of the entire plenary session of the Galego Fisheries Council and the agreement with the administration that he was in charge at that time, we would also seek the agreement and support of all the political forces that were in this Parliament at that time. I submitted the dictatorship, once approved by the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, to this Parliament, I met with spokesmen both of the Socialist Party and of the Galician Nationalist Block and of the People's Group and we accepted all the proposals of the Socialist Party and all the proposals of the Nationalist Group of the Block, except for that which referred to aquaculture. And yet when the vote was put to the vote -- and the minutes are there to give proof of what I'm talking about -- the Socialist Party abstained in the vote, and the Galician Nationalist Block Party voted against. They voted against what at that time called for the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council and demanded this advisor and all his team, which was the criterion of relative stability. You voted against, and now you change your position when it's not convenient, when it's agreed with the whole fishing sector. The whole fisheries sector decided that it was not the time to talk about relative stability, that it was the time for the whole European Union fisheries sector to work together to reach a great deal of agreement against the United Kingdom, and that it was not the time to talk about those points that could disunite us, but rather to seek the union of the whole sector. And the sector itself has set up the European Union Fisheries Alliance for the defence of the common interests of the whole fisheries sector. That's where you were and this is where we are. Where you were and where you are, is that in Europe, in theory, they are part of the Greens group, who made statements saying that this was a great deal, and now they come here and criticize the agreement, and in Madrid they will tell you what it looks like. Because we're here defending the need not to change through the back door of the State Law, and here they voted one thing and in Madrid they just voted another. A member of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, who here opposed the defense of the Aquaculture Act and who had no remedy to go to the doors of an aquaculture company saying that he would defend the interests to renew the extensions of that concession, today voted against an article calling into question the extensions of the concessions of aquaculture establishments. Yes, Mrs. Pérez, yes! [[Applause]] Those things hurt. And you may say I'm not, but I am. My hemerotheque is there. No, don't worry about it. We have the results of the vote. Of course you'll have the replica shift and I'll have it, too, but I, when I speak, speak with data. And when the mortality processes were still taking place today in the seafood banks, I have to tell you that all the technicians in the Council have been there, that you've been the Director General of Fisheries Development visiting the areas and that all the technicians are working on that assessment that today we can't have closed because we still don't know if the process is over or not finished. But in a record time we made available to the sector more than two million euros for help in rekingling the marine banks. And we've already said -- and so we will -- that if we need to increase those aid orders, it will be done, and that the sector knows we've always been by their side, defending their interests. When you put me here in the face that I said you should reduce the number of fishermen, I tell you that you don't want to twist my words, that, for the moment, I'm still useful to defend them. What I'm defending -- and I've always defended with a very loud and very clear voice both in Europe and in Madrid as well as here -- is that we have achieved from Galicia that it was accepted for the first time in the common fisheries policy that the three axes were equivalent: the environment, the social and the economic. And we're seeing with fear how from Europe weighs more environmental arguments than social and economic arguments. And what I said was, there's going to be a time when, if we just defend the environment, we'll also have to say that there's a minimum number of fishermen. Don't get me wrong about my words, because that's what the sector is defending. As we are also against whom we intend to press from the Commission to the European Parliament, which is sovereign in deciding what we vote and what we do not vote, and so we are defending it. Mrs. Pérez, of course, I won't be doing my job very well, according to your point of view, but I put my hands to think that I would stay in the year 2021 of the Welsh fishing sector if you, instead of having only four years of government in Galicia, had twelve years of government, because in only four years, with the Government of Zapatero in Madrid and with the Government of the Bipartite here, in Galicia, we lost 44% of the fishing possibilities, which you say soon. From 2009 to 2019 we recovered 75% of fishing opportunities for Galicia. That's the balance, and that's the summary. [[Applause]] And now, for now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u108	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of clarifications. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u109	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pérez, you said I came today to defend the agreement. The other day in the Committee on Fisheries, I was told -- not you -- that ends in the deal. It's just that I think I'm expressing myself very badly, but in this Chamber Session Diary, my statements have to be collected that I said -- and I still say -- that the agreement is not the desired one, but that, of course, it was much better to reach an agreement than not to achieve it, because that would lead to our fleets being expelled from British waters on January 1st. Mrs. Egerich, that demagogy mix when I talked about rowing all together to conquer equality between men and women also in the fisheries sector and to pull out -- which is an absolute cynicism -- article 18.4 of the Climate Change Act. That, by the way, both you and the advisor say that here we vote one thing and that in Madrid we vote another, and it's a lie, because we never voted in favour of removing Article 18.4 here, in this House, because we're tired -- forgive me for telling you -- that they use this to scare the sector. Because at no time does the Climate Change Act attack the extension of the concessions for the occupation of maritime-terrestrial public domain. [[Applause]] And I want to remind you that the only concession that wasn't extended in Galicia was denied by the Galician Union, not denied by the Central Government. So, yes, laugh, Counsellor, but you've laughed before when I told you that they had a problem of dialogue between the People's Parliamentary Group and the Galician Council when you said we didn't want direct negotiation of the Galician Council in Europe. [[Applause]] It is true that Mrs Pérez has already moved her vote on this initiative that brought to this House the Nationalist Block Galego, which had a point that the Socialist Party certainly did not support, but the People's Party, yes, and said that the Council of Galicia had urged the Government of the State to recognize Galicia's direct negotiating capacity. You laughed when I told him they had a problem and they said that this was not voted for by the People's Party. For the People's Parliamentary Group has voted on this; therefore, agree. Of course, Mrs. Egerique spoke of disloyalty to Central Government Galicia. But I just don't know how you dare say that today when the advisor herself right now said that the Ministry of Fisheries -- and he hit again -- he didn't defend fishing until the last minute. Because he literally said, "though other governments have defended fishing until the last moment." It is incredible that you, who are asking for institutional loyalty, to call for coordination in such important challenges for the fisheries sector, in money from the most responsible of the Fisheries Council, should question the role of the Ministry of Fisheries. [[Applause]] Then I said to Mrs. Egerique that I liked to take out the article by López Veiga, but that I had forgotten two words: "for now," which López Veiga said. He said that "at the moment" had not been excessively harmed. But, of course, at that point, you said it was a disaster. So the words of the former Fisheries Adviser and the current advisor are completely different. I, Counselor, just asked him a question in the air, didn't make any claim. I asked him if he'd rather not come to an agreement and that our fleet had been expelled. I asked a question, with a question. I raise questions and you raise accusations and false statements against the central government. Of course, I agree that with this Brexit document and with everything that now brings the aid, we must continue to work, but of course that agreement gives us greater stability and legal certainty. We have very important challenges ahead and, of course, you were talking about something fundamental in which we always agree with you, which is that there is no need to defend the environmental criteria alone and exclusively, but you have to put greater emphasis on the social and economic criteria of fishing. We have seen as recently the Community rules and also the state rules more emphasis on that environmental criterion than on the social and economic criteria, and we are there alongside the Council of the Sea to continue to transfer these criteria to Europe as well. Of course, the Ministry of Fisheries works that way, and that sustainable fishing law, that future sustainable fishing law, goes through these defeats. You were talking about that at these PIFs, at these border inspection points of Burela and Celero, the Government had arrived late. They published in the BOE at the end of 2020, but, of course, they are approved for when they are really necessary, which is from this January 1, 2021, which is when the consequences of Brexit are effective. So we have very important challenges ahead that affect our sea workers and, as I say on many occasions, of course, you will be next to the Sea Council, this group, the PSdeG Group, whenever you want to work for the whole sector. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. The most palpable proof of how the People's Party governs, of how it tries to manipulate, and of how mindlessly it is just made by the Counsellor and the spokeswoman of the People's Party Group. They have just said by duplicate -- first the spokesperson and then the Counsellor -- that the Nationalist Block Galego has just voted in favour of article 18 of the Climate Change Act. [[Applause]] It's fake! It's both of you liars. [[Applause]] Counsellor, today what was celebrated was the Phoenician. We're not in Phoenician. We have maintained our amendment, which is, by the way, the deletion of the entire article. Do you know which is yours, Counselor, that of the People's Party? The deletion of points 3 and 4 of the article. What we haven't done -- and, by the way, we're going to keep deleting the entire article for the Commission and for the plenary -- is to try to deal with Vox that deletes points 3 and 4 of the article, as you just did. We didn't do that. [[Applause]] And see if you're clear, Counselor. On the one hand, it says that we do not have representation in Europe, that we do not have Members and Members in Europe, and on the other hand, says that the Green-ALE Group said that the Brexit agreement was a good agreement. Let's see if it's clear. You know perfectly well that there are two groups, you know perfectly well that within the agreements -- including the People's Party, there were five different positions within the European People's Party -- and depending on the countries, the positions are different. And the Galician Nationalist Block has never supported, it will never support, nor will it ever say that Brexit's agreement was good for Galicia. You know that; therefore, stop lying. [[Applause]] I don't want to turn this last speech -- because I have little time -- into a debate about the Climate Change Act, because there are the congressional tachographs and tachographs to record what everyone votes for, what everyone votes for! Counsellor, there's another contradiction between you and your own parliamentary group. You told us before that right now it wasn't appropriate to change the subject of the principle of relative stability or promote its review and yet the Group of the People's Party... I don't remember if it's relative stability, but yes, PSOE, too, actually. It was voted here unanimously for a few weeks ago that, in fact, they had demanded, precisely from the Government of the State, all the management that had been directed to promote that review. Then agree. Or is it another lie? Of whom? You, yours, Mrs. Egerique? Whose lie is it? Of course, because saying three lies followed in the same intervention, as you will understand, is quite unacceptable. I don't want to turn this into the debate of the Climate Change Act. [[Applause]] I'll take my first intervention again. He was told that we unanimously approved in this Parliament, firstly, the recognition of Galicia as highly dependent on fishing. Secondly, to promote the revision of the principle of relative stability. We have approved, without the support of the PSOE, to demand from the State or to urge the Government of the State precisely the recognition of Galicia's direct capacity, especially in fisheries matters. And finally, we also unanimously approve those contingency plans -- which the Union cannot remain behind -- of economic and social support for the fisheries sector. Well, Counselor, you, who came here with a collaborative spirit and seeking the union of all -- what will it be like when you don't come with a collaborative spirit?--... He comes almost never before, but, man! he has two appearances, Counselor, and that, when he comes, he comes to lie repeatedly, three times in the same intervention, and he says that we are the others who stand against how we stood in 2009, is also false, Counselor. Since you come with a collaborative spirit -- we think we're the ones that we're looking for that collaborative spirit -- I want to make two concrete proposals, which I've already made here at the time -- you weren't; I said before I had a very tight schedule --. You must devote, Madam Counsellor, among other matters, to working on these unanimous agreements which took the Greek Parliament with nails and teeth: high dependence capacity of Galicia, principle of stability, presence of Galicia and contingency plans. You have to attach nails and teeth to these questions, and we -- I guarantee you -- we're going to be, not behind you, but on your side for the defense of these four issues; on your side. Besides, we want to ask you two questions. First, we have to complain already -- yes, Counsellor, yes; you mean yesterday, not today -- with insistently and with much intensity -- whatever it is capable of; I insist, I will hold us on its shore -- a substantial increase in the game to compensate for the fishing sector. It's that 2.2 million euros for the whole state is an absolute joke, and most importantly for the autonomous community, precisely, that most depends on that money. [[Applause]] I insist, we have to work from now on, not setting ourselves as an objective just those aids. The aids do, because they correspond to us by right, because we are the most fleet we have, but, of course, we have to work on other fronts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u113	And, I'm done, Mr. President. The second question we want to propose is, as I told you before, that we believe Brexit's worst is about to come. Well, if the worst is what's about to come, we believe that the political groups in this House can't stand out, we can't stand aside, as you keep us, from all those issues that you're talking about. I will no longer ask you again, because the People's Group has already voted against, the representation of the groups within the Galician Fisheries Council, because it could, because the regulation itself envisages it. I won't ask you that, but you have us, Counselor, of course, because, as I told you before, we don't even know the reports.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u115	All we know is your statements in the press. It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u116	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u117	We think, Counsellor, that decisions must be made, that decisions must be agile and that they cannot be waiting forever, because the sector cannot be waiting forever, and that must indeed be effective.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u119	Counsellor, we wait for your answer, but, above all, we wait...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u120	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u122	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u123	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pérez, don't accuse us of lying. See, in favour of article 18, in the Pénencia, as I said when I came out and spoke of that debate: PSOE, 13; Podemos, 4; Bildu, 1; Plural Group, 1; Mixed Group, 1; Republican Left of Catalonia 1. [[Laughter]] [[More Country/BNG]] [[Teruel Exist]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u124	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u125	Mrs Pérez, you have a Member at the Congress of Deputies. I remember, in addition, that you have the same speech as you had when you were a Member in the Courts, and see if you haven't changed things and if you haven't changed the fishing sector, and you're still there. The Member of the Galego Nationalist Block is included in the Plural Parliamentary Group - More Country - and, if not, ask his Member whether he votes or not to vote and he does not accuse us of lying, because we do not lie. We didn't lie, and the votes are in the Court Sessions Journal. [[Murmurs.]] So you don't come here to justify complicity with the Socialist Government, which clearly the Socialist Party voted not directly. [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, now I'm going to make reference to what you want to join the Galician Fisheries Council. We have unanimously voted on a number of points which, of course, we believe are appropriate and which can go forward on the fisheries issue, but you want to now enter the Galician Fisheries Council to instrument, to control, to decide, to make decisions, and that we will not allow. While the Greeks give us confidence in the People's Party, we are going to maintain the sector and the decisions of the sector, which leads and represents, in addition, Mrs Quintana in Brussels, as I say; and also calls and preach in the Government of Spain and they do not listen, as I say. And besides, how many Brexit initiatives have you brought? Ask your group. This Parliament has to work for Brexit, as I said. Mrs. Quintana came here in 2017, we presented different initiatives... and I'm telling her one thing: she has a very tight schedule, because she's working for Galicia. You have this Parliament as a trap for a demagogy and an outer space that does not exist. The Galician Council also has government responsibilities, and the Executive, of course, has a very tight schedule and whenever the eleven advisors can appear in this Parliament and give explanations of their management. And, I insist, not with loyalty and support of what you suspect, because you tend your hand, but then you don't give it, and out they mount the messes and they're never to support that Galician Union and Galician work outside. Mrs. Otero, you're talking about rowing in the same direction, working, from our responsibility, for women, of course. For now, Mrs Otero, we are ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to do things by voting under the laws. I remember that history says what each one does, and in 1933 socialists opposed women's vote. Now we have the opportunity to vote on different laws.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u126	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u127	Yes, Mrs. Otero, it's a reality. Today they voted against in Madrid. Today they voted in Madrid for the amendment of the Law of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u128	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u129	...costs, within the Climate Change Act, and that will affect women's jobs in Galicia. Yes, Mrs. Otero. Yes, Mrs. Otero! I love that López Veiga is also a reference to you today, I love it, after asking to resign here on several occasions. I love it if you always put it as an example. And for now, Mrs. Otero, we all see the indirect effects, and after 2026, less you. You here don't seem to find out about those effects you're going to have. So that "for now" in the article is important. Look, Mrs. Quintana, the Galego Nationalist Block and Mrs. Pérez turn to that phrase that you say because, as I say, they use this platform as a demagogy that is not real, and this advisor also has responsibilities in the Executive. Therefore, he is fully aware and working for the best position of the fishing sector with regard to Brexit. We also went through something here with the Socialist Party on the theme of the Community Reference Laboratory on bacteriological and viral biovalve contaminants, which said one thing, first they criticized, then they applauded, then they said that they were lying, lying to the advisor, that they lied to Brussels, that they lied to the media, and it turns out that who lied and who was most wrong was the Socialist Party itself, which turns out that, when they asked for explanations and gave them, they didn't do it. They always do the same at the shows. Rosa Quintana came here to give clear explanations to write exactly what has happened, what has been done and with what perspective we face the future, and you come here to criticize permanently -- even lying, because the vote is in the Journal of Sessions -- the People's Party, and that is neither loyalty nor support, nor to hold hands to future projects. Look, time puts everyone in their place, as I said before, and besides us in Galicia will show it to the Greeks and the fishing industry always, because it puts everyone in their place, because they know who works only for personal and party interests and who works for the interests of the sector, and that can also be demonstrated later on in the results that we have achieved in Galicia. You change your criteria and opinions according to the wind blows, and it can't be, because, as a socialist Member said here, in the previous legislation, fishing cannot be currency change, and it's finished being currency change. And in the debates you would vote for an abstention, but they've always said that this article was very harmful to the sector and to the marine industry chain, but today they vote in favour of that article in Madrid and therefore it directly affects the marine industry chain. So, with a word here and with a different action in Madrid, with a total disloyalty of a central government with the Galician fishing sector, we don't want to work and with interests for instrumentalizing and controlling the decisions of fishermen, shipowners, seamen and a long et so many workers of the sea, either, which is what you want in your initiatives, as I said the other day, who put many points and always end up putting that instrumentalization through their presence in all organisms that currently act freely. Madam Quintana, you, as I said before, are, have been and will always be, because you've proven it, it's not something we have to invent. So we have full confidence in you. You have the confidence of this parliamentary group to continue working for the interests of the Galician fishing sector and, above all, to go to Brussels and have legitimacy, which has won it with work and with hours of defence of the fishing sector. For me, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closing of the show, the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, let me express my gratitude to Mrs. Egerique for her words and her commitment. Of course, I will always try to respond by defending the interests of the fishing sector with which the People's Party has honored me since 2009 and by maintaining its defense, and that's my job. The truth is, today I have to close this shift of appearance a little disappointed, and I'll be allowed to. As I am one of the people who do not believe that no Member who is a member of this Parliament has any bad intentions or bad ideas or wants the worst for the sector, I have to say that I am surprised by the lack of knowledge about this sector by some Members. And I say this because, who knows me well, knows that I name the word "liar" is to light me up inside, but I won't even do that. I'll give just a few examples, Mrs Pérez and Mrs Otero. You told us, they said and used in the election campaign that we in article 18.4 just wanted to scare the sector, and keep saying that, and that's not the case. We don't want to scare the sector, we're seeing the same reality that the sector sees. And what is the reality of the sector? I don't know. Honestly, I don't know what their reasons are for restricting the concessional period of the installations that are in the public domain of the sea-terrestrial. Look, I, as I've spent 30 years in this sector and I've gone through many government links, I can tell you about all my experience so they can see that I'm not lying. In 2013 the Government of the State published a law, the Law of the Back, amending the law of the year 1988, and granted that, once all extensions of the concessions were completed, if it could give an extraordinary extension of 75 years. For what? To give legal security and stability to all companies that, by meeting all requirements, are located in the maritime-terrestrial public domain area. At that time the Socialist Party, which was in opposition, appealed to the Constitutional, and the Constitutional gave the Government the reason. The Constitutional gave the government the reason. Don't tell me no, Mrs. Otero, and then don't call me a liar, check the situation. At that moment the Constitutional gave the government the reason. When you were ruling in Galicia, they made a Fisheries Act in 2008, where they said that all concessions, when you finish your extension, would go out. At that moment, we asked that not be so. We said that there was a chance to put the counters to zero, because it was not yet approved the State Backs Act of 2013, and that there was a possibility to put the counters to zero to give legal stability to all holders of aquaculture establishments in a maritime or maritime-terrestrial public domain area. We were told we were wrong about the sector. And we assume a challenge: if we get to the Government, in the first session we change the fishing law and put the counters to zero. We arrived at the Government, we changed the law at the first session and we managed to put the counters to zero and give stability to all the holders of the settlements. Once again you come to rule in Spain and, from the back door, you want, by amending the Rules of the Law of Back, to modify the concessional period of the establishments. [[Applause]] As they realized they could not, with a real decree, amend a law, address, during the pandemic period, the Congress of Deputies introduce a Law on Climate Change which in its article 18.3 and 18.4 refers precisely to the duration of the concessional period. In this paper today we voted in Congress -- since the results of the votes are transferred to us -- and again you win, and Article 18.3 and Article 18.4 will continue there in the Climate Change Act. This extraordinary 75-year extension provided for all holders of aquaculture concessions or auxiliary establishments in the public maritime or maritime-terrestrial area is without effect. That's the truth, and I challenge you to believe that something I said here is a lie. It's all a lie. It's all a lie. You mean to tell me it was a lie that you in the 2008 Fisheries Act put the need to tender the concessions? You want to tell me it's a lie that we had to change that law and put the counters to zero? You want to tell me that's all a lie? This is all published in the Official Journal of Galicia, Mrs Otero; it was all voted here in this Parliament. And now Mrs Pérez comes and calls me a liar and says I don't know what my group votes for. Nothing further from reality, Mrs Pérez! Of course, we voted in favour of analysing the agreement, to see if it was necessary to declare Galicia a highly dependent area of fishing and also to see that we could win that. That commitment we have, we will analyze it, and we are studying it. I don't want to ask for Galicia's declaration as a highly fishing-dependent region and that happens to Galicia what happened to the regions that declared themselves highly fishing-dependent areas in 1982 and that today are no longer a fishing power. I'm interested in working to keep the Welsh fishing industry increasing its fishing opportunities year after year, as I've been defending since 2009, and here's the data. In the two-party government and with Zapatero in Madrid, Galicia lost 44 % of fishing opportunities. From 2009 to 2019 Galicia won 75 % of fishing opportunities. Am I satisfied? No, because I will never be satisfied always and when we need more fishing opportunities to give our sector more future opportunities. But not being satisfied doesn't mean he doesn't know how to value the effort and work he's done in the whole fishing sector and the entire administration next to that sector, defending him in all the forums. [[Applause]] We also said that this group voted in favour -- of course yes! -- of calling for direct representation of Galicia with the State to the European Union. We want to go into the hands of the state... well, look, it's a difference between the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Murmurs.]] We don't want to break up with the state, we never want it and we never want it. We know that the direct relationship is with the state, and we want to go by the hand of him to put our ears, to put our efforts and to put our work into getting to give more arguments to the state so that it better defends the interests of the fishing sector. You can check, because you have friends in all the autonomous communities, in that interdepartmental group that was created in Madrid to talk about Brexit, that autonomous community defended the fishing sector in the Brexit negotiations. Tell me some. Galicia was the only one who spoke of fishing at all the meetings there were, both in the state and here in Galicia. The only one! Nor the Basque Country, nor Cantabria, nor Asturias, nor Murcia, nor Valencia... no one understood that Brexit could impact the Greek fishing sector. He accused me of not knowing what relative stability is. I said it at my first show. In 2009, when we prepared Galicia's proposal to defend what should contain the common fisheries policy in Brussels, we were betting at that time on a review of the principle of relative stability. You voted against, and that is gathered in the minutes of the sitting. When Brexit's negotiations started, the fishing sector itself said it wasn't time to talk about relative stability. We, the People's Group, are never going to give you lessons from what is the principle of relative stability, because if anyone tried to defend this evil principle called relative stability, it was the People's Group. Because, look, the only resources that came out against this evil called the principle of relative stability presented to us the People's Party governments in 1996, in 1997, in 1998, in 1999, in 2000, in 2001 and in 2003. And what we learned from that lesson -- a resource we never won -- was that we no longer cared about the principle of relative stability, but negotiated well to achieve fishing opportunities so that we would not be affected by what we had at that time, when the zero discard policy came into force. And that's what we had to work on. That is why I say that the fisheries sector is a complex sector, and that many hours of study and effort must be devoted to it to defending the principles of the sector. The fishing sector itself is giving us many lessons, and the fishing sector itself is telling us: we are not now able to negotiate fishing opportunities for this year, we are going to see what roadmap we have to set so that, within five and a half years, we have the best arguments for defending our interests. And we're following that roadmap. You accuse me here that I did not appear after the 16th December Ministerial Agreement. You know positively that I came here on December 10th to say what was the position we were going to take from Galicia to Europe, and you know that on December 18th, when I came back from Brussels, I was positive in cowardice, that I was confined to my home and that I couldn't show up. You know that, and you also know that at all times -- as Mrs. Teresa Egerique said -- I've been telling both the sector and all the media what the results of that negotiation were. He also knows that the Ministry said he was very pleased at that meeting, but we said from the beginning that the agreement was clearly negative to Galicia. We always say that; that's why I can't be accused. Tell me you don't know the reports that were made and that were presented in the plenary of the Galician Fisheries Council. We don't hide anything, we're totally transparent. Reports have the whole fishing sector and are available on our website. Imagine how I am, that here, at some point in those reports, if you told me I didn't do anything, that I already defended it very well the sector itself, that I had a magnificent report hanging on its website, and it turns out that the report was what had been done since the Sea Council. Anyway, I'm the only one asking you to really have a little affection for our sector and to worry about it, talk to it and understand it. They'll learn a lot more than coming here to call me a liar, because the day they pick me up in a lie that day I'll submit my resignation. Never, never, never gonna lie or consent to no one calling me a liar. [[Murmurs.]] Because what I heard here today is that it was the Council of Galicia, my councillor, who denied him the extension of a concession to an aquaculture establishment, is to have very bad faith or much ignorance, which I prefer to remain with. The Autonomous Community of Galicia has the competence to regulate activity, but it is not the competent authority to grant concessions, which is the responsibility of the State, the competence of the State! In order to extend the activity to an aquaculture establishment, I have to request a preceptive and binding report from the State, and if the State tells me that this woman cannot be given the extension of the concession, I cannot give her the extension of the concession. Don't lie, don't cheat, because that's the way you're going. [[Applause]] I didn't deny the extension of the concession, I did it by a perceptual and binding report, fulfilling what the law says and what my competences are. How can I extend something if the State, which is the owner of the land, says that one cannot continue to use that land to enjoy this activity? You want to tell me how I do it? Or are you trying to fool people and blame me for what I don't have? How later did the State itself come to realize that we weren't fooling anyone and that they were leaving without legal certainty...? Well, it's just that what you've been told to this company -- I don't know if you know, but let me tell you -- a company that's been working since 1968, that had the possibility of having an extension beyond the concessional years of 75 years, and tell us that we can't give you the business permit because if they're done with them. And when the people representing this company went to meet the state, they were right to say to him, "You have no problem, this will be done again, and maybe you'll get back to it." Of course, you look great in hair! I mean, once the concession expires, the law itself obliges me to return the situation to the original state; i.e., I have to destroy all the pools that I have built, i have to leave everything as it was in 1968 and then introduce myself to a contest, which I will hopefully win, give me, I will build the pools again and I will be able to continue to develop my activity. Man, this is a coat of hair! With all due respect, and I'm because of those things that I'm not and because of those things that don't happen. [[Applause]] If you really want to work for the sector, come here with proposals and arguments. They talk to the sector, which is good for them to talk to, understand it and follow the roadmap which the Galician Fisheries Council itself unanimously approved on 20th of last month. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u132	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mr. Aranguena? Quiet, please! Silence! We'll hear that's what Mr. Aranguena is asking for. Then I'll decide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u133	In the light of Rule 76.3 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Egerique mentioned here an allusion affecting the dignity of my parliamentary group, our parliamentary group. Specifically, if I may explain which one, I'll explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u134	You were also in the debate, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u135	As you will see, any member of the group can do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u136	Yes, you can, but I wonder if she, as she was in the debate... which is exactly...? I don't know... I always say, out of respect, that she was in the debate. Any of the spokespersons who are authorized to make it, but exactly what is the phrase that you think somehow injures the honor of your group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u137	Mrs. Egerique said the Socialist Party voted against female voting in 1933...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u138	Well, but that's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u139	...and that's a falsehood...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u140	That's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u141	It's a bull, Your Honor. It affects our dignity. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u142	No, that's a statement made by a Member... No, but that's a... sorry. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That is a statement made by a Member who is in the debate, and I don't think that would hurt the interests of any group. No, it's over. [[Protests.]] It's over! [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I think... that's an allusion... in any case, she can still nuance too. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't understand that, but, in any case, Mrs. Egerique who nuances; please nuances. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't understand that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u143	I said precisely that the socialists opposed themselves. I didn't say they voted against it, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u144	Quiet. That's it! The two positions have already been clarified, and that is a debate that is already beyond this debate. It's over! [[Murmurs.]] It's over! [[Murmurs.]] The debate is over! [[Murmurs.]] Let's go back at 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u145	Good afternoon. We restart the session with point 2 of the agenda, which are motions. In this case we are debating two motions in a cumulative way. Accumulation of two motions for their joint debate motion by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact it is having on women the economic crisis generated by the coward-19 Motion of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the performances that must be carried out in Galician Union in relation to the effects of the 19-pandemic cover in the women of Greece
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u146	There is an amendment to the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, which is presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and there is also an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group which presents the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galego. [[G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Susana Díaz Varela, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.In the resolution part of the motion, in point 1, where she says, "Create the Value of Equality as an Body...", she must say, "Create an organism..."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u147	The debate on these motions begins. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u148	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today since the BNG with this motion we essentially defend two ideas: First of all, to show support for this chamber to the mobilizations of Greek feminism this March 8th, the very day of yesterday. We do so every year -- and the rest of the House knows -- in the proposals we put forward from the BNG around this date, the International Women's Day, but on this occasion, this year 2021, it is even more important if we take into account the criminalization and demobilization campaign that we had to stop on the days before 8 March; including a deputy -- which I know well because it's the same constituency as me -- a member of the Galician People's Party in Congress, Mr. Jaime de Olano, marine, who asked for all feminist demonstrations in the Spanish state as a whole. And since the BNG, we think it's important to remember -- although I would still say it in this chamber -- that the right to protest and protest is a fundamental right, essential in any democratic system, because it's through it, it's through this right of protest as the other rights are invoked: rights such as wage equality, fair and decent working conditions for women, or non-discrimination on the basis of gender in the field of work. I support the mobilizations on the part of this chamber, which is where the sovereignty, though limited, of the Greek people resides; also that of the one million women we live and work in this country. And the second of the ideas that we have defended with this motion since the BNG is that we move from discourses to facts, especially by providing Galicia, the Welsh Public Administration, more and better political tools to effectively combat gender inequalities and discrimination, especially in the workplace. Angela Davis, probably one of the most recognized and recognizable voices of the Black Feminist, said, "We have to stop accepting the things that we cannot change and start changing what we can't..." -- and I add -- : "and we mustn't" "...accept." That is the inspiring principle that motivates the initiatives that we have included from the BNG in this motion. In order to move forward in equality, we need something more than to point out the problem; we need tools and, above all, political will to end the discrimination that we suffer from women. That's why we made this motion a set of proposals that seek to move on to action, abandon the passivity with which the Galician Union acts and, above all, end the ritualism of the institutional declarations of March 8th. Proposals for two objectives. The first would be to increase pressure and inspection against discrimination against women at work, by creating, among other things, the value of equality. It's an initiative we've defended since the BNG on other occasions in this chamber. It is a public body aimed at ensuring compliance with the law, in particular the principle of equality and non-discrimination on the basis of gender. Because a lot of what was said here 15 days ago, of what was said today in the morning debate at the control session, of what was said yesterday in the streets of this country and the world, a lot of what was spoken on 8 March, how to charge less, for example, is directly illegal, in addition to a flagrant violation of human rights. A value of equality that has existed in other countries for years, as is the case with Sweden, but also that it already exists in Euskadi or the Valencian country more recently. A public body which has the capacity to impose administrative sanctions and to carry out investigations either on its own or on its part on equality. In connection with this, we must call for the transfer of full skills to Galicia in the field of labour inspection; more political power to build a more just, fairer and more democratic society. Because sovereignty is that: equipping this country with more tools and political power to improve the living and working conditions of the people of this country. More competences in the field of labour inspection, why? It is perfectly legal in the current legal, legal and political framework of the Spanish State. At the moment, there is no need to break Spain, and so believe the fact that Catalonia has these competences since 2010, Euskadi since 2011. In addition, there is a ruling that supports the Constitutional Court, Judgment 51/2006, which recognises the ability of autonomous communities to exercise their powers in matters of inspection and labour sanctions, provided they do not go against the single box. It's a good time -- we believe from the BNG -- to end with twelve years of drought without a single new competition for this country, precisely this year 2021, which is fulfilling 40 of the approval of the Autonomy Statute. The second goal is to convert administration into a panic to drive equality. The Galician Union is a huge contractor and buyer of goods and services. These administrative acts that drive every day the Welsh Administration are not harmless, nor are they neutral, as is nothing in this life. They're not just management procedures, but they're an important tool, a means, if they're at the service of policies that the administration should also develop in the area of equality. We therefore promote or defend it from BNG to carry it out, two questions: One, audit of public procurement which is wholly or partly funded by the Galician Union to ensure compliance with collective agreements and non-vulneration of labour rights, including the wage divide. Because what happens in this country without going back up twenty or thirty years ago, how was it done this morning? What happened in the last two years in this country, and I brought three examples? What was the situation, for example, of the cleaning service workers in the administrative building of San Caetano of the Board of Galicia -- which is granted to a company, and we're going to put names and names on it --? Because if discrimination exists, it's because there are those who discriminate: the North Group. What was the North Group doing? When the improvements were being negotiated in the working conditions of the cleaning workers -- I insist -- of the Galician Union building in San Caetano, what I was doing was to prevent the cleaning women from being able to promote the category of pawn specialist, a question that if I recognized the working men of that same company. What happened, in addition, to the public service? That instead of defending the workers' rights, he even prevented his union representatives from being able to access the public service recruitment fees so that they could defend their rights before the employer. Another recent case, well known in this chamber because we have brought it on many occasions: the case of Nélida Pisco -- you know it! - The bus worker Calo, who was harassed by his company. There's a court sentence and, in addition, work inspection papers that believe you've suffered -- and I quote literally -- "working psychoterrorism." Then, as no containers were burned, no one was shocked. What was the result of that judgment -- I insist -- firmly, that this company condemned for "working psychoterrorism"? That the Galician Union has awarded you as a ten-year extension to the granting of the service. Another is that we find ourselves in fundamental services in our day-to-day life support and care in this country, such as home help workers. Last week we met the dismissal of two of them, for example, in the Chantada Town Hall, when they were exercising their lower-labour right. More than 90 percent of the staff in the home service in this country are women. It is supported, in addition, this service in its vast majority with public funds from the Galician Union in the hours linked to the Dependency Law. And these workers bear absolutely Leonine working conditions, but in addition, a collective agreement has expired since 2011, and wage tables that haven't been updated since 2010, without the Galician Board saying or doing anything at all. [[Applause]] How do you stop this? He said it at first: political will and more tools are needed. What's the proposal? One of them -- the one that puts BNG on the table today -- is the introduction of equality clauses in this country's public procurement. This is a unanimous agreement of this chamber, of the Galician Parliament, since March 2019, driven also at that time by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which follows -- despite what was heard this morning around here -- without fulfillment, two years later and a pandemic through. What do these equality clauses allow? Among other issues, introduce the gender perspective as a cross-cutting element, even in the object of recruitment, or exclude from participation in tenders to companies firmly condemned for gender discrimination. And not that a firm condemned by labor terrorism against a worker who decides to be a mother can have access to another ten years of public service, management and the provision of a public service. Clauses which are totally legal, which are protected in the legal system of the European Union, Directive 2004 of the European Parliament and the Council, or Law 9/2017, of public sector contracts. In short -- and with this ending -- more political tools to end inequality, but also a change of approach that ends with so much hypocrisy. If there's discrimination against women, it's because there's discrimination. And that's where we want to focus our attention as a society, as an organization, and as -- we also believe -- institutions, in which we use legal sub-refugees to pay less to women than men, or those who use impunity to continue to discriminate. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the discrimination of working women there is a lot of misogyny of those who think we are second-born or simply non-citizens. But there's also an enormous economic advantage that makes discrimination against women very lucrative; otherwise, it would have been over a while ago. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the defence of his motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u150	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I wanted to begin my speech -- it is not here now, but well -- inviting the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party to read the story, and perhaps there they better understand or know or learn that female voting in Spain is due, among other things, to the seventy-four positive votes to that female vote in 1931 at the Congress of Deputies. [[Applause]] In fact, yesterday was a demanding day in which both women from our balconies, social networks or even with our clothes as well as those that went out on the street screamed loudly that we're full of so much discrimination, and we're even more fed up with the denial of discrimination. Because we're sick of being told that there's no inequality, and we're sick of being told that women are treated by the system in the same way as men, that we don't stand for greater precarious work, that the pay divide is a chimera, that care should not pay us because they're our obligation, that they call us "dead" when we're "murdered" when we're "prostituted women", that they tell us we're less sick, that we complain too much and without reason, that we live in a permanent complaint. We're sick, we're sick of all that. And that's why it takes days like yesterday, this 8th of March. And that's why we also need that brotherhood between us. I didn't go out to the streets first yesterday, and I didn't do it out of prudence. And it was also the first time my daughters, at their short age, didn't go out in the street to defend their rights, but we were free to do so, with responsibility. And so it was yesterday, and it must be left out of manifesto as well. And at this point I want to make clear a question: the socialists yesterday didn't go out into the street, but we very much rejoice at the freedom of all the women who did. Nor do we encourage not to do so, simply warn that we socialists, prudently, would not, and would not, in some way, follow the warnings, the health recommendations. Don't even give the speech to the far right, or criminalize women's irresponsibles. That's what we don't do, and we're never going to do; quite the contrary: we applaud, and we respect any form of women's claim on a day like yesterday. [[Applause]] One day -- as I say -- where from the networks, the balconies, the streets... we call on governments to focus on us again, which we have been -- and so we know -- the ones most affected by this crisis in all areas. But I'm sorry to tell you that, of course, from the German Government it seems that the efforts being made -- if any -- are proving insufficient. We, of course, see no results. We wake up every day with new data, with new reports, that point to the terrible impact of the pandemic on women and the need to curb this growing inequality. We can't afford a retreat as brutal as it is occurring in matters that we've already overcome. We can't afford it. I wanted to begin my intervention -- already talking about the motion -- and finally, it's the explanation of the amendment we registered this same Monday, in which we requested the creation of an equal council. We did it this Sunday after hearing the statements of the Employment and Equality Counsellor on a radio station, in which he stated that somehow he was a feminist because the whole of Galician society was, in addition, confusing feminism with the law against male violence; we don't understand it very well. Besides, he said he'd never been to an 8-M demonstration and that, now that he was a counselor, he understands that he should already start going. We at all criticize -- and let it be clear -- his will in the new position he plays, in what we wish him, in addition to many successes, because his will will be ours. We also don't discuss their commitment, if we want to see it that way, but we're worried that it's sitting down what I said a moment ago: that there's equality, that all society is feminist. No, not all society is feminist, and that's why March 8th. Not all society is feminist, so what we claim is that there is a department with people committed to the front that ensures the cross-section of equality in all government actions. Today, with our motion we intend to mark the priority areas in which, in our view, we must act urgently. And precisely because of that urgency, we do not set deadlines. We don't mark deadlines because it would be useless to put the collection urgently or at all points, to do it urgently or urgently, as quickly as possible. What we're trying to do is define lines of action, lines of action where we should start acting. Of course, any political action has to carry enough resources. So first what should be applied in this context of crisis is a more remarkable increase in the funds devoted to equality. In these three sections of the General Secretariat of Equality we propose that 0.5 % of the consolidated budgets of the Union be allocated and, of course, without taking account of that 0.5 percent of the State pact. And it's been done that we're being too contained in the figures, but at least for the year 2022, that's what we're asking you to do. We also want to insist very much on what we focus on our interpellation. They assess the impact of the measures, so we consider it essential to elaborate urgently -- it has become clear from the previous plenary, but we would like to refocus on it -- a detailed report on the situation of the Greek women caused by the pandemic, which complements what has already been announced by the Council, but which includes variables for us that are very important, such as care, male violence, health, representativeness or rurality. Rurality is a very important factor in a country like ours. It's also urgent -- it's already said here -- to break up, of course, with the gender gap; the result of the sum of discrimination that women have already suffered in the private labour market and which has worsened with the pandemic. That's why we demand the implementation of the precise instruments. There must be, we have to have these tools available to end wage discrimination or labour harassment, work within the framework of social dialogue in a new model of rationalization and adjustment of working hours, and of course ensure that the regulations governing telework do not penalize us, women. Because if anything evidenced this pandemic is that it was much bigger for women to work when they developed it from their homes. And this is directly related to the issue of co-responsibility. A proper co-responsibility is required, so that we consider the urgent review of the Greek plan that ends this year and the implementation of a specific strategic plan that promotes conciliation systems that do not penalize women's career. In the current model -- we all know it -- it pushes faceliness and availability -- something that we women don't have today. Of course, you have to do special fine-tuned in the situation of monomantal families, which are the worst that's going through. We say this on many occasions here: either we incorporate care already in our social, economic and organizational course, or we will continue to be stagnant as a society and, therefore, as a country. This crisis if something gets out of the way is that we have to turn care into a variable, into a central axis of our policies. It is the unequal distribution of care that aggravates the global gap in inequality. We must be valued and, of course, make them more economic activity. The existence of an effective network of women's information centres that guarantees coverage of our entire territory, of course, with sufficient economic resources; also complete the inconclusive agenda of parity, promote urgent measures of assistance and support to women in the context of prostitution, while setting up Galicia's first strategic plan -- which, of course, we applaud the Government for putting this plan into effect or starting to put it into effect -- or demand that the gender perspective be present in the projects submitted by the Greek Administration to the Next Generation funds. In fact, what we would like is for some of these projects to focus precisely on care. These are some of the issues we demand in our motion. And I'm leaving for the end something that seems fundamental to us: the theme of health. It is essential that an integral health program of women who have been leaving their health in the background for one year is urgently underway to care for the health of others. This was a subject already discussed here in this legislation, unfortunately unsuccessful. It was also dealt with in the past, also unsuccessful, by the proposal of our parliamentary group. It's something you did to the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, if that plan existed. But you, like so many other things, lords of the People's Party, when they got to power, they put them in a drawer. Well, we ask for that plan again. Never as much as women now need the surveillance of our health. They can't deny this. Of course, this programme must, of course, bring together a strengthening of the human and technical resources of the public health service. And I know they're going to answer -- if they respond to this -- that health, that surveillance of women's health, already exists. It doesn't exist, I tell them it doesn't exist. Ultimately -- and it's over -- for this parliamentary group, for the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, to ignore the gender impact on the economic and social consequences and the measures to deny this crisis will undoubtedly exacerbate much more inequality. And nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Del Río has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u152	"This one's called Marta Nieto, it's my cousin and it's good. I tell you one thing: it's the best of all, because the others were all skeletons. Only one singer, Nanci Peluso and, well, one who looked like a vermin whore, full of tattoos. I don't know where they got this one from. I said, "This snake, but whore, whore, sure." You look great, man! The one you don't want, for me." Thank you, President. This is the live broadcast of the red rug of the Goya Awards on social networks, on the broadcast of Spanish public television. Spain, 6 March 2021. In the 21st century, two days from the 8th of March. And we're here trying to debate at the higher level, when there are men who are still at the primary or povular level, for those who understand me. There are new Members here who probably don't understand what the parvulary is, but there are men who are still at that level, or I would say, rather, at the troglodyde level. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we reach agreements on recruitment, issues that you have put on the table here today, Mrs Rodil, so important, on health, on equal work, on education, on co-responsibility, when there are still men who are concerned only if a woman teaches a lot, little, wears tattoos, wears ears, takes her legs to the air or takes what she wants, gentlemen? [[Applause]] This shows that sexual stereotypes are more rooted than we thought and created, and the truth is that it's very sad, ladies; it's very sad that we're still at this point. I hope that Spanish Television does what it has to do, do the research. They say they're going to investigate what happened; I don't know, they're already going there two days and here no one, nothing; no one asks for responsibilities. The left totally changes and shut up, eye! No, no, it's not a lie, I haven't listened to any member of this chamber, nor to any person in the world of politics, asking for and demanding responsibilities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, ladies, no. And at least other people were demanded to resign, and not here. But since Spanish Television is full of political commissioners, they have turned away from the true professionals of journalism, and we don't know who these two individuals were making those comments. But, of course, that I doubt they were journalists, that they have the ethics and professionalism that any journalist prays for. Mrs. Díaz, you come here to introduce the debate of the women's vote to say that the Socialist Party was in favor, which is surprising. No, no, I'm not going to talk about what was said before, I'm going to talk about what you said. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'll talk about what you said. [[Murmurs.]] The Socialist Party was not in favour of women's vote. No, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] Look: Mrs. Vitoria Kent, who was not from the Socialist Party, who was from the Socialist Radical Republican, defended the vote against the female vote. Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Listen, that's the story. And Margarita Nelken, who was a socialist, still had no record of the vote when she voted, because she had the record of the vote on 18 November, and the vote for the female vote was 1 October. But she does have a little book -- I'm going to recommend that she read it, because she said here that we learn -- and the book is The Woman at the Constitutional Courts. That explains perfectly how women are not prepared to vote and how the influence of the Catholic Church on women prevents them from making their own decisions to vote. So, Mrs. Díaz, you don't come to rewrite the story, because the Socialist Party didn't approve, it didn't support the female vote, and there's not much more to say. [[Applause]] About the BNG motion, Mrs. Rodil, you talked about the creation of a valdoria of equality. The truth is it's a matter that they bring repeatedly to the House. On other occasions I don't know if I've spoken about it, but it's a quite surprising proposal, ladies and gentlemen, because this oversight function through a valedor is collected in Article 14 of the Autonomy Statute. I don't know if that's what you're looking for. I don't know what format you want to give this valet, but, of course, article 14 is generalist and not exclusive. In other words, the People's Valley also includes the protection and defense of the right to equality. And it doesn't seem reasonable, therefore, to limit Valdoria's own functions or to duplicate functions. I don't know what you're looking for with the people's valet. And, moreover, it is especially surprising, because the current holder of the People's Valley, Mrs. Fernández Galiño, reinforced the feminist action in the wake of the People's Valley, and all the Members we had had the opportunity to intervene in his presence when he came to present his memory, we stressed that he had made that defense about feminism. Even on your website you've included issues that we haven't seen so far in your memory, in your daily action. And it is very surprising that you now come to say this, because I don't know if then that affage that you made to the valet of the people was sincere. And another thing is that you don't want an equal value, and that you want an organism with strictly administrative and non-authority functions, and -- as you say in your initiative -- that you have coercive capacity. So it would be a real organ dependent on the organization and structure of the Galician Union and therefore also submitted to the report of the People's Valedor. I don't know if it's what you're looking for. But, in this case, the coincidence of the denomination could lead to confusion of citizenship, Mrs. Rodil. If it's a valet, it's not a sanctioning organism. Explain what you want. But in any case, you criticize all the legislation that the People's Party approves in the matter of coercive or sanctioning. If it's the law that defends the right to honor, the law bites. If it's the health law that imposes sanctions on those who don't comply with the pandemic, we're fascists, anti-democratics, and I don't know what. The Act of Shows, because it imposes sanctions on places that don't comply with noise and shelter, we are also "anti-democrats." Now, every time you make a proposal, either in this area or in others, you sanction, and you see the amount of financial money that you put in those sanctions! This one is generally quite high. So that's only democratic if you defend it, and if you defend it by the People's Party, we are fascists, anti-democratics and mordaza law. We do not consider the establishment of an infringement regime in the labour market to be autonomous competition. It's restricted to state law, and you know it, Mrs. Rodil. I don't know, you said, "From words to deeds." Of course, but you play with these issues, which you know can't be, because you can't; in Galicia we can't regulate in the field of work, it's a state competition. Now, if you say to me, "infringement in the private sector." Well, about private companies and their relationships with the workers there already exists a body with sanctioning competence, which is the Labour Inspectorate. You set up the full powers, and this debate we've already had, and we've said to you, "Hey, let's urge the Government of Spain to make the so-called wage equality law, and in the meantime they give us more resources to continue doing the work of the Labour Inspectorate." Besides, we've reached that agreement in the past full, there's no news. But if you want to be a new organ at the board, I'd say, there are several already. This is the Observatory for Self-Government Violence, the Galego Council of Women, the Non-Sexist Advertising Observatory. We have the General Secretariat of Equality, which channels all complaints of discrimination on the basis of gender. We also have the Administrative Unit for Equality, which is organically dependent on the Directorate-General for Labour Relations, and which is coordinated with the General Secretariat for Equality, which is the body that supports and integrates the gender dimension in the field of employment competences, assigned to the Employment and Equality Council. If you want to speak seriously, we're talking; now, if you want to get a headline that BNG proposes the valedor of equality, no, Mrs. Rodil. We're here to be useful and to propose things that are real and effective, not to have a headline by tomorrow. For that we already have the Government of the State, who's been fighting all day with We can see who's got a bigger headline, right? In point 2, they intend to draw up an audit on the employment situation of women in public procurement. The truth is, Mrs Ródil, it is another of the impossible issues. Because I've been looking at your initiative to try to support something, but it's super hard, because you tell me how you're going to make the Galician board an audit to private companies. Just because you have a contract with Together, do you have to collaborate? What if the company says no, how do we make it? No, of course, it's a laugh. No, it's not a laugh, it's a reality; it's just that we have to be realistic. We need to be realistic... oh, no, we've opened a general case against all companies that have a contract with the Galician Union! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're not sure everyone's trying to kill the workers, and then we're opening up a general cause! No, just with the North Group. Of course, because the North Group is evil, evil and terrorist when it hires the Galician Union. Ah! but the North Group when it hires the Deputy of Pontevedra, the Council of Pontevedra, the Council of Poio, the Deputy of the Crown, no, is an angel of the guard. Mrs. Rodil, let's be serious. Companies work with Galician board, but they also work with municipalities governed by you. It's just, please, you have to be serious! I can agree with you that you have to keep on the watch and that in the face of a complaint you have to be implacable. [[Applause]] I agree with you, but you're here to say that we move from saying to action because the Galician Union does nothing... and what does the Pontevedra Town Hall do? And what does the Deputy of Pontevedra do? And what does the Crown Deputy do? What about the Poio Town Hall? Of course, no, you don't care because, as you rule, it doesn't matter. No, no, you've focused on a company! [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] You've focused on a company that hires multiple administrations! And you can't say and blame the Galician board for that company working with the board, when you're in charge working with it, Mrs. Rodil! Just like they do with home aid companies, residential companies, who come here every day to tell us that we've killed older people, because we've been hired since Galician Junta... No, no, Mrs. Rodil! [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you say... do I remind you of the speech you have about the residences and about the treatment of private companies in the old-age residences? Okay, that's not exactly it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, we let people die because those companies are trying to... No, no, okay, it's not exactly that phrase. No, I'm sorry, it's not that phrase, but it's the truth. You are every day saying that, by earning money, we privatize the attention of the elderly and the attention of people with disabilities with companies you work with when they rule, Mrs. Rodil. They work for home help, home care, but what are you telling me? What's the matter? What's the difference between the branches that work with the board of those who work with the Council of Pontevedra or with the Town Hall of Santiago? No, Mrs. Rodil. DomusVi is the same DomusVi who works with the board and who works with the Town Hall of Santiago. Same thing! Same company. With regard to the incorporation of equality clauses into public procurement, this Parliamentary agreement is already being complied with, and knows that it is in the Bureau of the Social Dialogue, for social clauses in public procurement. It's not the People's Party, it's the Employers' Confederation, it's UXT, it's the Workers' Commissions. In point 4, about transfers, I've already told you what we agreed to in the past. In point 5, the development of the beginning of gender equality as a synthetic indicator in the IGE, I think it is more complete the way the IGE currently has to work, because it elaborates, within the official statistical activity of the Autonomous Community, in the statistical operation, two indicators: that of gender and the reality of the Greek woman. The reality of the Welsh woman makes it easy for general information to know the current situation in different areas of men and women, and to that end it is synthesized by the statistical operation of gender indicators. But in addition, the IGE included in the annual statistical programme for 2020 an outstanding line of action: the study for the breakdown of the wage divide. And I think this is very important, because the goal is to study beyond, by the way, the origin of the differences between the wages of men and women. And I think here we're all worried about the pay gap, and there we take into account the differences in the work characteristics, but also about something you were pointing out: in the part of pure, pure and hard discrimination, which unfortunately still exists, although we believe not. In point 6, we have drawn up a plan for dignity and visibility; that is what we agreed in the past. Point 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group's initiative was: "To create a plan for raising awareness and raising awareness of society as a whole in favour of a responsible social organization, as well as more rational schedules." Fifteen days later, we consider, Mrs. Rodil, he's on the watch. About the Socialist Party -- then on the second round, I'll talk more often, because now it doesn't give me time -- but we, Mrs Díaz, are going to ask you for a point vote, because we think there are some points that we can vote for. In the first place, you are asking to allocate 0.5% of Galicia's consolidated budget for equality policies. Mrs. Díaz, equality is a cross-cutting issue. You always have the fear of taking the budgetary shares of the General Secretariat of Equality and the Labour and Equality Council, and considering only those games so that they are destined for equality. It's a mistake, because co-responsibility, conciliation, it's not equality, Mrs. Rodil. Yeah, right? Well, if we start with that being equal, look, the 2021 board budget is 11,563 million. The General Secretariat of Equality has EUR 27.61 million, representing 0.24%. You, I understand you're staying there. This has to be added: games for equality and conciliation, such as the EUR 141.77 million in social policy, which is 1.26%, and also the total amount of the measures included in Galicia's VII Strategic Plan for equal opportunities between men and women 2017-2021, which is more than 300 and a million euros. We're talking about 3.38 % of that same total budget. We cannot therefore support the allocation of 0.5% when much more is allocated, Mrs Díaz. You're talking about equality policies, and so do we. But -- I insist -- equality is cross-cutting. It must be borne in mind that in all councils they work with positive discrimination, both in the rural environment, in education, in health care, in social policy, in Vivenda, and in many others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u154	In point 3 we would agree to ensure that the gender perspective is present in the projects presented by the Autonomic Administration in the Next Generation funds, but here we also ask you to be the Government of Spain as well as to look at it, because that's what negotiations are doing in Brussels. Man, don't tell me that, Mrs. Díaz! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Obviously, they have to come with a gender perspective, characteristics and goals. I'm telling you I'm going to vote in favour at that point. But having said this, I also tell you that you have to look for them to come with a perspective of origin, because they're going to be controlled by Moncloa, and autonomous communities at the moment have no information about it. So I think it's important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u156	I'll continue on the next shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u157	No, he's gone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u158	Oh, don't I have any more?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u159	No, no, no, no. Time's up. That's a pretty good thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u160	Then I'll tell you what the points are. I thought I had a second round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u161	No, no, you don't. You know. You know you have no other job. Thank you, Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u162	I wanted to tell you point 3, 5 and 11.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u163	Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u164	Thank you, President. First of all, and so that I may not forget, as regards the amendment made by the Socialist Party, we will not accept it. It's something that we also comment on Mrs. Díaz and me before, because it's usually in parliaments when you want at least to keep a certain dialogue, because you talk about things. And then I'll explain more in detail why; also in relation to some of the issues that Mrs. Prado was saying now. Mrs. Prado had us here ten minutes. I, synthesizing the conclusion that I draw from his intervention, are four ideas: they don't want to change anything, they don't want to move one finger, they don't want to change anything at all and therefore they want everything to remain absolutely the same. And he's been here for ten minutes, turning around, talking about everything a little bit and nothing in particular, trying to justify why they want to stay in the situation we have today. [[Applause]] And we were asked Mrs Prado on several occasions to the Parliamentary Group of the BNG that was what we wanted. Well, the BNG wants, Mrs. Prado, to stop talking one year after another, and one year and then the next, how many Euros charge women less than men for doing the same job. What's the sanctioning regime? [[Applause]] It's illegal! It's illegal! And it's happening inside the San Caetano building of the Galician Union, which is why I brought the case of the North Group. I want you to investigate all the public services that you're managing that or other company! What we wanted was to put black on white specific cases and names and names of companies that are violating the current legislation, by preventing women, and only women, from making progress within their professional categories by cleaning up the Galician board building in San Caetano, or by denying the workers themselves to join together, they can access the fundamental documentation to defend their rights, their rights! What sanctioning regime? What's going on? That today a woman for developing the same job cannot charge less than a man! That's the sanctioning regime that defends the Galician Nationalist Block. But to stop talking about the pay gap, you have to know and see payrolls, where is that violation of rights, where are those pluses, that impossibility of further progress in the career. Why are they paid worse than being the same thing a man does, in case they're occupied by women, have lower wages and wages? And that happens within the public service. I said it in my first intervention. Galician Union is not an observer. And here comes to us from the observatory of macho violence, mixing them with bugs, I don't know very well what I'm aiming at. What we want is for the Galician Union to develop its responsibility in its own Vigilante legislation to ensure first, because fundamental and labor rights are respected not only by workers, but also by the workers and workers in this country. But in particular, to put black on white where it is, where it lies and to which it is due that discrimination of women workers in jobs, both in public administration and in private enterprise. He said, "They want to double the valet." It's just that he's already got that job. The valedora sails and intermediates between citizenship and public administration, not between citizenship and the company that hires it. [[Applause]] Do you want to change your name? I, if you like, discuss here what name we call it. What we did was we took the experiences. -- I insist -- successful other countries, more or less of our surroundings, as is the case with Sweden, where this Valley of Equality has been very successful for many years, or other cases, such as the Basque Country and the Valencian country, to which I referred earlier. Of course, we're not going to ask for the skills of Labour Inspectorate because then, if we've transferred these skills, it can't even be matched by the Galician Board in which the Government of Spain doesn't, because that's the excuse. And I wonder, how long can women workers or this country wait to be used as a gun to throw the government of the state in their backs, while they continue to violate fundamental rights to them, and to them in many cases as well? [[Applause]] Because there are widely reported situations -- although very rare -- of men who, also accepting the rights of conciliation, suffer discrimination at work. I'd say I'm sorry but, look: I'd also prefer things to be said clearly, even if I'm turning around about myself for ten minutes, talking about everything and nothing to find excuses. We insist on the idea that inspires and motivates this motion, and we believe that, in addition, that is the line of work that we have to continue as part of the feminist agenda in this country: to begin to accept those things that are supposed to be natural and immutable, like that year after year we debate here how much less it takes a woman than a man, who will take three hundred years to achieve wage equalization, as if that was a matter I don't know whether climate, weather or almost divine. And begin to equip this country, and especially its government, with the tools it needs to start leaving speeches, political hypocrisy and institutional declarations on 8 March, and start changing things really. But for that, we have to have -- I said it -- political will and, above all, tools that allow us to intervene as government, as administration, in reality, and change it. We'll bring them back once and a thousand times. There are so many policy changes that have been pushed in this country because BNG brought it not two, not three, not four, but five times to this camera, that we'll do it again as often as we need it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u166	Thank you, President. First, Mrs. Prado, you're right. I'm not going to recommend to you at all that you read -- I see you're a read person --. If I would like to recommend that you add: 162 votes in favour of women in 1931; of them 84 Members and Socialist Members. There's no more. Yes, yes, no, it's history. [[Applause]] If not, tell me who were affiliated with each of these Members. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Anyway! With regard to Spanish Radio and Television, I am most grateful that here in this Chamber we are continually talking about the Spanish Government, which is about Spanish Radio and Television... it is exactly the same in the Galician Radio-Television Control Commission, we are continually talking about Spanish Radio and Television; the Companion of the People's Party. Look: now I also recommend that you read and look at the news, the information, and you'll see how an investigation is actually open; you opened that same night, and that same night Radio and Spanish Television condemned those acts. By the way, I was the first in my field, where I had to... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, but what you can't come here to say falsehoods and let them see if they shut up somehow. I wanted to start the same way as well, because we talked to Mrs. Rodil there was a mouse. We're not going to admit the amendment they proposed either, because it's already precisely in their motion, and then we understand that it wouldn't make much sense to replace our own. With regard to the motion that we present, and without it being precedent -- please, without it being precedent -- we share in some way what the People's Party once said. Of course, we in the content have nothing to object to at the first point, which is what we amended. But if we disagree in form and, of course, the title of "validation" for us, of course, calls the confusion with the existing statistical body, which is the People's Value, which, in addition to knowing -- and it is true that here the three voices at the beginning of the legislation have agreed to point out, in addition, that change or that new orientation in defense and in denunciation of the inequalities that occurred in our country -- maintains a strong commitment to gender equality and the fight against inequalities. Not in vain, the ambassador to the valet is, in addition, a long-term feminist -- who, by the way, was also a Member of this House --. So what we propose is that it be accepted; we know it is not accepted, but we propose that this amendment be accepted to look for a different denomination. That's all, that's all. I also have to tell you that you are talking about two experiences that exist in other autonomous communities. We'll tell him that, as far as we know, they have no sanctioning capacity, and there lies the difference between what we're talking about. On the proposal made by the People's Party, the acceptance of these three points that you propose to us does not imply anything on the part of the People's Party. We are aware that many of them have already been approved in the previous plenary -- we take them the same way because they were also part of our proposals -- then they have no commitment. But to see the difference between you and us, it's just that we're going to accept that vote by points. And what we asked is whether you would accept it in the same way. I'm afraid it wouldn't happen the same way. I'm sorry, I don't know if you're aware that the word now I have it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, perfect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u167	Quiet. [[Mr. Pazos Varela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Mr. Paz, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, shut up, please. You're not in the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u168	We're used to it. I'm really used to Mr. Paz' tone-outs. It's true...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u169	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u170	...that normally from my bench, from my seat, I always hear the same voice. I'm always listening to the same voice. I beg you, please, respect. I'm talking now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u171	Quiet, please. Mr. Paz, please. That's good!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u172	May I continue?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u174	Good. Thank you. It's impossible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, but it's impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u175	But please go to yours and forget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u176	Yeah, but it's pretty complicated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u177	Because if you don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u178	It's pretty complicated to go to my place when I have a person...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u179	Pull forward! You know there are better things like that. I told you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u180	Of course, but it's quite complicated to follow the thread, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u181	Silence! Sure, sure, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u182	As I was saying -- and I'm sorry, there's little time left, I know; of course, three minutes back there were --, what we wanted with this motion is to focus on the need to establish urgent measures already. There is no time to put in place measures that serve as containment mechanisms to allow once the crisis is resolved the starting point for equality in which we, women, are at least the one before the pandemic. This tough pandemic gave us a lesson and taught us our weaknesses and weaknesses as a society and, of course, the weaknesses of our system. We think we should react in time and fear that we may not be in time for some of these issues, and that is why we appeal to that urgency and to that commitment with equality. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] motion by G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mr. Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with obtaining new opportunities for energy exploitation in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u184	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u185	Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u186	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Since more than twelve months ago Endesa announced the closure of the thermal of the Bridges coming in, one behind another, the fictitious features of this closing process; they have come to meet stages which fall behind another, as if of pieces of domino being treated, and no one has done anything to avoid it or, at least, condition it to give him a new direction. During this time, these more than twelve months, Endesa did not mind feeding false expectations about the biofuel project, which between the testing, issue and discussion of reports, meetings, etc., in no case will it take longer than Endesa considers acceptable; it will end just in time to start the next stage of its plan for The Bridges. Because the tolerance that Endesa maintained regarding this project is explained in that he is still pending to receive certain authorizations to proceed to the closure of the power plant, he had time, and besides they did not have any impediment to continue, at the same time, taking steps on the path that he started. During this time we have attended the formal submission of the application for closure. He announced the transfers to his own personnel in the thermal and terminal of the port of Ferrol, and announced his project for the future of the Bridges, the Future Plan: wind farms and a renewable hydrogen plant. All conditioned, I would miss more!, receiving Next Generation funds. Over these more than twelve months, Pontes' society has been witnessing with astonishment and indignation at a spectacle in which Endesa does and undos as if there was no authority that could limit or condition its road map. Endesa behaves as if it had already happened to all the governmental authorizations and concessions it needs to implement its plans, and they are not few. Meanwhile, the staff working in the thermal and the Council of Bridges itself are relegated to mere spectators and sufferers of Endesa's decisions. For example, it gives permission for the closure and decommissioning of the plant, despite the fact that the Council of Bridges has submitted allegations to the environmental impact report submitted by the company. Endesa also gives, in fact, that you can count on the power evacuation node of the power plant, when that should be the object of a specific thrust because it is a transitional territory. Just as it turns out you'll get authorizations for all the parks you want to promote in and around the Bridges, when these parks also have to be subject to government authorization. They inform us through the press that the works of the hydrogen plant will begin in January 2023 and will end in December 2024; that the company responsible for dismantling will hire 80 % of its staff between the personnel of the auxiliary companies and the unemployed in the area. Finally, Endesa -- as we have seen warning each and every one of our parliamentary interventions -- has a detailed plan, very detailed on what you want to do in the Bridges. We can't say the same thing about the Galician Union or the Government of the Spanish State, who, frankly, seem to be seeing them coming. To show, a button: the budgets of the Economics, Business and Innovation Council. During my interview with Vice President Count in the previous full reproach on him that there were no budgetary appropriations in his department for the energy transition and the economic reactivation of the Bridges. And the vice president accused me of giving the debates without proper information, because there are indeed plans, in the budget of his department, for investments to The Bridges. It's about building an office, the office, which is not missing. I didn't imagine that the person who was valued at BNG's proposal to set up in the Bridges a technology center for the R & D+I of the energy storage would be claimed, as evidence of his commitment to the reactivation of the Bridges, as a solution for the Bridges and its district, the establishment of an office! But so much importance, as the lack of a plan and budget forecasts by the Galician Union, still has the fact that it is paralysed to the elaboration of the fair transition agreement for The Bridges; the tool, the instrument that the Government of the Spanish State has designed for the reactivation of those municipalities or districts where the closure of a thermal power plant occurs. This agreement is called the central axis of the reactivation planning. Agreements must be made between all the administrations involved, diagnoses of the impact of closure, projects, financing, etc. This project is in the case of the Bridges yet unstarted, when other areas of the Spanish State are already underway, with defined projects and committed funding. This is the scenario -- for us, for the BNG -- dramatic in the locality of the Bridges. On the one hand, a company that is progressing inexorably along the path that she unilaterally decided, as if the way and the world were for her absolutely frank and could do what she wanted. And on the other hand, the Galician Union and the Government of the Spanish State, which, apart from throwing stones at each other and accusing each other of inaction, lacks plans and lacks budgets; which makes it very complicated that they can agree on something when they have nothing and mark a common strategy against Endesa or even in collaboration with Endesa. This is why the motion submitted by the BNG contains a series of proposals that may seem obvious: to condition the permission of the closure and the works of Endesa, to condition the grant of the power evacuation node, to condition the authorizations to install new wind farms. Finally, to compromise the full capacity of the Galician and the Government of the Spanish State to implement industrial plans for the economic reactivation of the town and the region, and to shield the employment of the self-employed of Endesa and the auxiliary companies, and to agree with their representatives. An obvious one, indeed. All of these questions are already planned or supported by each other, but they remain unconcrete. An initiative of the BNG almost focused on it was passed in Congress last February 16th. We bring almost the same text today to the Galician Parliament to make it clear that, indeed, all parties know and agree on what needs to be done, and to urge their respective governments to act. With the same objective, while we are promoting this debate here, we are presenting another initiative in Congress in which we are interested in the immediate execution of these February 16 agreements, which are being launched. Of course, in the text that we bring to this Parliament we have introduced some small nuance that we understand, however, can be of importance in two respects: The first, in the idea of moving forward, of speeding up times, taking advantage of the work done by the Council of Bridges as regards the elaboration of a fundamental part of the documentation that must be included in the just transition agreement. We understand that it would be irresponsible to start from scratch, make it as if we didn't count on part of that work already done, assuming for free an unnecessary delay that goes to the detriment of the people of the Bridges and the region. The second is something that, on the other hand, any one would take for granted: that it is explicitly collected that the Galician Union commits its own resources to the Reactivation Plan of Bridges and the District. We know perfectly well that the bulk of resources must come from the hands of the Spanish State, the European Union and Endesa themselves. We know that, and we defend and defend it. But no one would understand that the Greek Government did not compromise resources, in addition to being the only way to be able to condition to some extent the projects that are going to be promoted; the only way to have voice and vote is to put money on the table. We believe that these two nuances would help clear doubts in the Bridges about government engagement. In any case, the most important thing is that governments once start working on the solution of this crisis, building agreements for a common front, even if it's minimal. Because more than twelve months after the thermal closure has been announced to continue looking to the other side, it's not a receipt, it's a tremendous irresponsibility to the location of the Bridges and a whole territory, which -- as I said before -- looks with stupor and indignation as the steps to the closure of the power plant happen without any of the governments present plans or projects compromising resources for reactivation. Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u187	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Calvo Pouso has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Gentlemen of the BNG, the truth is, your ability to surprise has no limits. Because it's true that today in your first intervention -- less bad than you said -- it presents us with an initiative almost done on the 16th of February. And I say that their ability to surprise has no limits because less than a month ago, on 16th, they presented an initiative that had nothing to do with this, with a self-amendment they transformed it, and with the arrivals of other parliamentary groups they reached an agreement at the Congress of Deputies, in which we were all voting in favour, at least the groups represented in Galicia. Some of them cost it, but eventually they voted, which I think is the important thing, what we should look for. But only a few days ago, you come here and try to break that deal there and that necessary dialogue of what you're talking about. What proves is that you are not trustworthy; what shows that you like noise; what shows that you are more at a taste the more discomfort there is, and the more billboards there are, the more the gentlemen of the BNG are. You'd rather break the dialogue, because I'm not trustworthy. You see this problem, which is going to come up -- let's warn you, let's say -- and you'd rather wait for the problem to get bigger and make more noise. In exchange for what? I don't know, you'll know that. Of course, we don't share it. Because the reality we have in Ferrolterra you know it, me too, is not new. It's not new because it's a neighborhood that's very used to these kinds of situations. And we have to put aside the theory, we have to put aside the ideology and present ourselves in the face of the problems, but we have to introduce ourselves from the very first moment. Bridge problems started a long time ago, not now; and now it's when it seems that you know each other, and the reasoning enters to put on the table which decisions are made, and the Block does so with the utmost interest. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like this. The comarca is suffering the consequences of the policies of its partners, who have been handed a blank check by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. I won't be the one to say that they appear to come to this plenary with these initiatives washing consciousness; I don't believe it. You're the one who prefers to keep the seat in the morning in all the institutions that rule with the Socialist Party and in the afternoon, to make opposition. We've seen that. In Galicia we saw him during the Bipartite: in the morning they came here and in the afternoon the Block was going to criticize the Socialist Party. That was the result. And I think you should have learned it. This situation is caused by an accelerated and unfair energy transition, with the support of the Galician Nationalist Block, because we have to say it and make things clear, if you want to find an understanding, of course. And toast them to the sun of political parties like theirs, who sold at the end of coal as a solution to all evils. And the consequences of the end of coal, what were they? Did not 12 months ago or did you know more about the consequences of the end of coal and agree that Endesa had closed without an alternative? But who do they want to fool? The people of the Bridge, no. The workers don't fool them. When he was betting on closing the station, we knew what the consequences were. In this Parliament we debate a lot and say: it is very good to leave the coal, here we all agree, but we have to do it in an orderly manner. And while in Europe they were moving that decision forward so they could have alternatives, in Spain the Socialist Party decided to take it as soon as possible, with the welcome of many political groups, including theirs. And we asked, "What's going to be about the people who work at the station and the assistants who work there?" They were quiet there, we'd rather not talk about it. The same thing happens with Ence; these themes and those workers don't count, they don't enter the statistics. What you're talking about now is to make another conversion, to set up a research centre with researchers, and that's where they seem to want all the employees working today at the center. But this situation is unsustainable today at the Bridges. We asked them what you think needs to be done in the meantime, because the economic impact of the thermal power plant closure is between 30 and 50 million euros a year. I guess they wouldn't have thought about it when they supported the power station's closure, I suppose they didn't think about the consequences then. But by the acts they'll meet us -- says the counter -- And it's not worth coming now, once you see the failure, to propose theoretical solutions; to propose that funds be used for those -- all must be said -- the Galician Nationalist Block did not present any formal proposals in the Reactivation Commission set up for this in this parliament, and to give it funding from European funds that we see day after day what is going on and how the Government of Spain decides where they are used, so that they are used, in which territory they are used, without even waiting to examine all the projects that may be on the table. We defended him from the beginning. He says that the Union did nothing, for on the first day that Endesa announced what his intention was, the Union of Galicia turned against. We said that was not a fair transition, that was what Europe demanded, thinking of the people who lived in the territory. That wasn't a fair transition because there were no solutions for the thousands of people working in Endesa, in the central or auxiliary. So, from the first day, we said, instead of closing immediately, it's better to set up a horizon on which to close within a couple of years, and in the meantime, let's make or look for alternatives. You were on the sidelines of the Socialist Party. I think that doesn't matter to you at that time because ideology was above the jobs of all the people in our region. They didn't listen to us, but we don't give up. And the Ministry, along with the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Endesa, began to work -- although later it seems that they wanted to trick us -- in a viable option, which is biofuels. Where's the Block? Are you in favor of the biofuel plant, yes or no? Because on this subject you say nothing at all. Data from the tests carried out show that current and future emission limits are met, that liquid effluents comply with the values of integrated environmental authorisation and that ash is admissible with additional environmental protection measures. Are you in favour of continuing with this project, putting yourself next to the Council of Bridges and the Council of Galicia to sue Endesa for this economic viability and also the Ministry? Are you in favor or not? Where are you? If they want to join the project, to the goal that Endesa will follow the Bridges, welcome! We are delighted; the more we are, the more pressure we will be able to make. If you want to support the development of the fair transition agreement of the Bridges, beaten by the Union and the Central Government a few weeks ago, welcome too! We're delighted they add up. And if you want to participate in the identification of projects for European funds that have already been presented to the reactive committee and that you did not want to come in to value, welcome! We're delighted. The Union is working in the short, medium or long term, but it's necessarily all about continuing to promote a fair transition policy, which can respect the environment, but also respect people and generate industrial employment. We count on you to work together, show you last day 16 at the Congress of Deputies. They're still on the side of leaving party interests. Today we present an amendment that is not similar, as its -- as it acknowledged -- ours is identical, identical to the one it is presented, to the one that has reached agreement at the Congress of Deputies. You said you had a couple of differences: Take into account the work done by the Town Hall of Bridges. The Bridge Town Hall officially has no work done. In the Town Hall of Bridges, the work that the BNG consignor, who is in charge of Industry, is not in the Town Hall of Bridges, has not submitted any documents, and you come to this chamber asking us to assume the work done by his fellow Bridges, of which the Town Hall has not yet officially taken note. You'll understand that this is officially not about comments in the hall. And the other difference is that the board compromises funds. Junta has funds, not only in the office that you despise. That was a previous step that was included in the just transition agreements; a necessary, necessary step, which is already made and there is a commitment. Of course, there is a commitment by the Union to participate in all the processes and all the necessary investments, of course. What I'm asking you to do is take out your face today, show if the Block really is to trust and look for that deal that was able to reach the Congress of Deputies on the 16th, or if, on the other hand, what you like is that of "how much worse, better." We're sure you'll be out here in a few minutes and tell us whether you accept the amendment or not. If you don't accept it, it is clear that you want to vote against it, and you don't want to seek consensus, you don't want to join, you don't want to seek solutions for The Bridges. Because this, Mr BNG, ladies and gentlemen, was clear a long time ago; you knew where we were going, and you preferred to look elsewhere. If they really want to strengthen themselves, if they really want to do something, if they don't agree with the treatment that the Socialist Government gives to the highways, if they don't agree with the treatment it gives to the industries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u190	... -- finished, president -- the socialist government, if they don't agree with the treatment given to the Bridges and their county, they have it very easy: they break down the governments, starting with the Bridges, where they rule with the Socialist Party; they break up in the deputies and the rest of the municipalities. You'll see how the Socialist Party takes note! What one can't say is one thing and do the opposite, because that's what people end up knowing. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u191	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Martín Seco has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u192	Thank you very much, President. I wanted to begin the initiative by thanking Mr. Calvo who said that some of them had had a hard time voting for this initiative in Congress. I really appreciate the fact that they voted in favour of this initiative at the end, if it cost them so much. [[Applause]] Immersed as we are in a crisis of strong silence, fruit of this pandemic that we are living in, which not only affects health, but also affects economic activity, with estimates -- we always say -- that can be around a drop of ten percent of GDP -- something unusual since the times of the Civil War. A crisis that, in addition, is particularly virulent in comarcas such as Ferrolterra, Ortegal and O Eume, where we have already set off, in addition to a situation of difficulty, what we all need is that we work everywhere from the administrations and with great determination to help our citizens not to stay behind and that the economy recovers as soon as possible, once the situation gets normalized. The least they deserve is the citizens of the Bridges, gentlemen, it's a game of triellers, to propose whatever it is so as to try to show that something is done or -- which is tremendously worse -- to circumvent the own competences that the Greek administration has assigned by law to leave thousands of Greeks without an industrial future. Today it brings the motion to the BNG with a text that approved the Congress of Deputies nearly a month ago, with the support of the three groups present in this chamber: the People's Party, the BNG and the Socialist Party -- if there are any minor changes, then we'll talk about this --. Interestingly, I was yesterday watching the Congress Industry Commission where this initiative was discussed, and it was a very interesting time to observe the low awareness of the problem in the BNG Member's own words, author of the initiative, which he called up to three times -- they didn't laugh -- Endesa like Ence. This is a reality. And we didn't know if they were defending the agreements they presented months ago or the amendments they introduced before the Commission celebration, and they didn't have much to do with the truth. We saw a member of the Galician People's Party, Tristana Moraleja, a spokesman on this committee, defending the live voice of the need for both "the Government of the State and the Council of Galicia to be involved in the solutions to the district of Pontes". They were words said exactly by the spokesperson of the People's Party. But let's do it: the same People's Party that approved this text in Madrid and said these things, now it amends the initiative in the Galician Parliament, and we could think it does it to correct the first and second points, which have a difficult legal consistency, but not. They only do so to remove from texts the words "Gallic Union" from the start of the motion, where the Galician Union is urged to draw up a reindustrialization plan for The Bridges in collaboration with the State Government; that is, they remove the Galician Union from all responsibility for giving industrial solutions to the Bridges, despite having exclusive industrial competence, according to the Statute of Autonomy. He's going back to deleting the words "Gallic Union" at the fourth point, where he's talking about his own self-funding of the Autonomy. And finally, they delete at point nine, when we talk about moving forward in the right transition agreement for the Bridges, where they say you take advantage of the work ahead of the Bridge Council, in a failure of absolute respect for that work of the Bridge Town Council Government, which, by the way, governs the Socialist Party with an immense majority absolute, which does what you do not do from the Galician Union, and which you want to underestimate. From here, I want to take advantage to send all my gratitude to them, beginning with the conciliar Anne Pena, who is day by day doing a job that, in most of her part, should start from a board of Galicia which is neither expected nor expected. [[Applause]] That's the People's Party's contribution to the BNG motion. What it adds, once again, is to try to escape the twelve years of government, which does not want or know how to carry out the industrial competences granted by the Statute of Self-Government, leaving only the Council of Bridges, to which it had not been helped to generate a new industrial soil, which was essential in order to be able to reindustrialize the council, and they felt very alone, Mr Calvo. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you knew that the energy transition would take place, that coal plants would stop operating with fossils sooner or later. And what did they do twelve years of Feijóo's government on the board and seven years of Rajoy's government on the state? Just let time pass, see if the problems were solved alone, and leave the work to whom it came after. And they still don't get colored when they try to blame the current government now for what they were unable to do for seven years of government in the state and sweet in the Council of Galicia. The structural problems of Ferrolterra have not been nor are they concern for a German Government that demonstrates day by day its inability to face some new activity to bring foreign investments, anchor the production of those already operating here or to bet on research, entrepreneurship and innovation. Nothing, gentlemen of the People's Party. You're mere spectators of what happens around you. And while Galicia is agonizing industrially with you in government, losing up to twenty-three thousand jobs in industry. In the past, the industrial production index fell by 2.5 %, compared to 0.4 % that fell throughout the Spanish state, and the weight of industrial employment in Galicia and Spain decreased by 0.5 points in the last ten years. That's the balance left by the leaders of the People's Party. But this situation can't go on, because the districts of Ferrol, O Eume and Ortegal can't go on anymore. We need solutions and alternatives to Endesa's closing announcement, which is motivated by the failure of the plant's competitiveness in the face of changes in market conditions, with a substantial increase in the price of CO2 rights, which although you try to make believe the citizenship that was a whim of this state government -- they do to conceal their incapacity -- they know it was for business motivations. And even though the European Commissioner -- who I repeat to you every time I used that field in the rise of CO2 emissions -- was Arias Cañete, a leader of the People's Party, former minister of his party, we're not going to say that Endesa closes because of Arias Cañete's decisions of the People's Party, because it's about looking for solutions and not hiding. The Government of Spain, as in the search for solutions for Alcoa, is also involved in the search for solutions for The Bridges. And by the way, he already said he was going to support the biofuel project, which is evaluating the Bridge Bureau itself, putting help lines for business projects and job generators on small investment projects of fair transition areas worth thirty million euros, including The Bridges and Cerceda. And another line aimed at supporting initiatives aimed at the creation of sustainable employment and promoting economic activity in municipalities affected by the closure of coal power plants, worth EUR 7 million. These areas were prioritized in the call for aid to renewable energy projects with aid of 8.4 million euros for renewable thermal installations, and another 12 million for power plants. They presented a package of specific measures for the right transition areas within the European Union's recovery and transformation and resilience plan, worth EUR 300 million. And in the renewable hydrogen roadmap, they gave special interest to the right transition areas, and they received projects -- as we all know -- for The Bridges and Meirama. And while, gentlemen of the People's Party, what did the Government of Galicia do? What was the investment for the Government of Nuñez Feijóo to these districts? What are the Feijóo projects for these comarcas? Do you want me to tell you, gentlemen of the People's Party? Nothing at all, zero scrapers, no weight, no project, nothing at all. Anyway, it's never too late. From the Socialist Party we believe that it is necessary for the state and autonomous administrations to work together in a clear commitment to the continuity of employment activity in the Bridges, which they bet on the eco-fuel project, which is technically and environmentally endorsed by the Technical Committee of the Bridge Bureau and the Council of Galicia itself. And so it must be a project that has guaranteed an operator to carry it out. Are you fully involved in the project, convincing Endesa to carry it out, gentlemen of the People's Party, or looking for alternatives from your industrial skills? Are you going to Galicia's board to put it on the table to opt for European recovery funds, gentlemen of the People's Party? Are you going to bet on the circular economy and the production of clean energy from the plants at the bridge power station? Do you make an administrative and financial commitment to support it? Because in the amendment they are presenting today, they do not want to give a single euro to this region. The curious thing is that when we hear Vice-President Count, we almost believe that there is economic Vice-Presidentship and that he is firmly committed to the future of the power plant. And then they put only photos and headlines for newspapers and television. Work, commitment and funding leave us for others. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Ferrolterra needs certainties and to count on a Government of Wales fully committed to the industry and its future. We haven't lost another decade without any kind of industrial policy. The other day, he said his spokesman that they were going to bring an initiative on Navantia every month, until the German shipyard was loaded with work. And from the Socialist Party, Mr. Calvo, we are firmly thinking about bringing an initiative every month until the People's Party assumes its competences in industrial matters and carries out public policies for the industrial development of our land. I think it should be an important initiative because you are continually trying to miss the competences that establish our status and that are so important for the future of our earth. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u193	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor for the motion's group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. As my companion Olaya said earlier: ten minutes turning around not to move anything; you repeat the performance. The worst thing is that any day you will be welcomed to the district of Ferrol or to the Bridges with that of Jerry Maguire's film: Show Me The Money; PP lords: Where's the money? Because you're a government, and you talk a lot, but you don't record a lot. [[Applause]] We are in Parliament, in the Galician Parliament, dealing with a matter of great transcendence for our country: the closure of a thermal power plant that has deeply transformed the territory and society of the Bridges with its activity, which has largely determined our energy and industrial model, and which now with its closure can result in a serious labour and social crisis in the locality and in the region. We give the matter its importance, and we treat it without self-limiting. I myself mentioned the fact that this motion is almost grounded on the other initiative previously adopted in Congress, on the initiative of the BNG. And I understand perfectly well that this agreement came about after the usual talks and assignments. But we believe that the nuances we introduced in this motion are not contradictory to that agreement, but they enrich it, by adding two matters that the entire society of the Bridges will certainly know how to value as a plus of security, as the political parties present in this chamber commit ourselves to putting into force the work done by the Council of the Bridges itself -- the only one that hasn't wasted time for more than twelve months -- and take advantage of this work to speed up the implementation of the fair transition agreement. Avoiding unjustified delays when we are talking about people's employment should be an obligation on the part of any government that wishes to be minimally diligent in their management. As for the commitment for the Galician Union to provide its own resources, it seems logical for any government as well. In fact, in the case of having to politically pressure the other parties involved in the process, the most charged way of legitimacy and credibility, the most effective way, therefore, would be to appear publicly demanding the collaboration and action of the others with a project of their own drawn up or outlined, as well as committed economic resources. That's what we understand would be to do to a Greek Government that really has a vocation to exercise as such and to rule the country. In any case, we're going to accept your amendment. As I've said before: for us now it prevails that they get to work, urge governments to get to work, to collaborate and build those complicities necessary to cope with a crisis of enormous proportions in different aspects; that they get to work on real projects, that they are not contradictory to each other, that they are not mere repetitions of what is done in other places or that they are not mere propaganda. Because that's why we're not going anywhere and, finally, when the veil falls and it turns out there's nothing, there's always people who pay the consequences. We will prioritize an agreement on the urgency of such collaboration between governments; an agreement on the need to condition all government actions in favour of the launching of reactivation and reindustrialization projects, and an agreement on the fact that it is also necessary and urgent a solution that implies guarantees for 100 percent of staff. We'll remove the amendment. They exercise their powers, they don't deny the country that they rule and support words with money. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u195	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. At the end of the debate on motions, we shall proceed to the vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u196	We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil. The amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the impact for women the economic crisis generated by the coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u197	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Díaz Varela. The amendment by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted and the voting by points is accepted. What are the separate points? Yes, give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u198	Points 3, 5 and 11, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u199	We therefore vote on these points: 3, 5 and 11. We vote. Voting of points 3, 5 and 11 of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the performances that must be carried out in Galicia in relation to the effects of the 19th pandemic on women in Greece. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. These points of the motion are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u200	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of this motion. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, except for points 3, 5 and 11, at the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the performances that must be carried out by the Galician Union in relation to the effects of the 19th pandemic on the Greek women. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. The motion is therefore rejected, except for the points which have already been voted on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u201	We now vote on the motion from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonso. Amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the G.P. motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mr. Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with obtaining new opportunities for energy exploitation in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u202	The votes in the votes have been closed here. We continue with point 3 of the agenda, which is non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to provide adequate attention to mental health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u203	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u204	Good afternoon. The non-law proposal that brings the BNG to debate here today in this parliament aims to demand resources for mental health care. We do so because in Galicia the situation in which we find ourselves is extremely precarious, both as regards professionals and as regards the attention that is being given to the people who need it. There is a lack of human personnel, there is a high likelihood of recruitment, and poor working conditions, of course, affect the quality of care for patients. Basic mental health devices are infred, community and personal mental health devices are lacking, and especially child-child care is also lacking. And we bring here today an initiative that I would qualify as minimums. At least because the measures we bring here are the minimums to begin to address the problem of the huge dimension as is the mental health situation in Galicia. An initiative put forward after holding a meeting with representatives of the Galego Mental Health Movement, to whom I want to thank today for the enormous work they do. [[Applause]] It's an initiative that demands, first, to increase budgets. Twenty-one million euros would be necessary to contemplate this year's 2021 budget in order to meet the mental health plan announced by the Galician Union. The president himself said it was a four-year plan with eighty-three million euros; eighty-three divided between four gives, euro over the euro below, twenty-one million euros annually. But we've found that this is what they announce. But the reality is that in the budget of this year 2021 the People's Party has agreed to announce, but it has not agreed to implement and put into the budgets those twenty-one million euros that would correspond to this year. This year's count doesn't reach a million euros, and then there are games to outsource the problem, not to take over the problem. So we demand an increase in the budget to incorporate the professionals that are needed. In the European Union there are 18 clinical psychologists per 100,000 inhabitants; in all OECD countries it is raised to twenty-six. In the Spanish state, the average is six, and in Galicia we're in line, in Galicia the average is 3.5 clinical psychologists per 100,000 inhabitants. This rate is clearly insufficient. At best, with resources that say they're going to start up with the Mental Health Plan, it would still be in half of what a study of Galician Union itself, in the Fraga era -- twenty-five years ago -- it determined that there would have to be twice as much as they now announce that there will be within four years. That is to say, a true coward, which, of course, must be cured. That's why resources are needed, because to hire staff, budgeting is needed, because twenty-five years later, with cuts, with a rate of rest, with the 2008 crisis and now with the pandemic of the vault, and with the associated economic and social crisis, the People's Party wants half of those who needed it twenty-five years ago as it can serve. At the BNG we say no. This forecast is shallow, and then they don't do it. By this year 2020 -- clearly said by the Director General of Health Care -- they had engaged in hiring twenty-one psychiatrists and hired eleven, engaged in hiring seventeen clinical psychologists and hired seven, and these contracts were towards the end of the year and for a duration that I will qualify as uncertainty. More personnel are needed to overcome the shame of mechanical restraint, to ensure the protection of the rights of sick people, to ensure their dignity as individuals. And that's why it takes enough professionals to care for them, and they need more professional people to have time to devote to people with mental health problems and end the overuse of psychopharmacological treatments. Galicia leads the consumption of psychopharmaceuticals in the Spanish state. The antidepressants were the second most growing drug in Galicia before the cure. There are thousands of Welsh and Welsh who take tranquilizers or pills, for example, to sleep. There is overmedication of mental health patients, both because they can't be derived from specialists from primary care and because they have an excess of patients these hospital care specialists, because they are saturated. More budget is needed to end the waiting lists. People on the waiting list for the Psychiatry Service have doubled in the last five years. There are waiting lists by professionals themselves in some areas of more than a year, for the first three or four months for the next. In this context, proper and effective treatment is virtually impossible. I know that later the People's Party representative will come to give other data, not knowing much where he takes them from. More budget is needed for an immediate approach to suicide care. Eleven years of People's Party government on the board, and there was a unit in Ourense, and a few days ago another unit was inaugurated in Vigo. It's clearly insufficient. Suicide in Galicia has a very high prevalence. Together with Asturias are the most prevalent suicide communities in the Spanish state. It is the first cause of violent death, above those produced by traffic accidents, and in Galicia from 2010 to 2019 3,345 people died, 318 in 2019. The World Health Organization envisages that for every completed suicide there are twenty attempts, with which we can take a picture of which is the dimension of the problem. And from the health field they're alerting that since the pandemic they're arriving at a lot more cases of suicide; for example, in Vigo's emergencies they say they tripled the cases. And the thing that's alarming is that it has increased the number of new people who come to an end or attempted suicide. We call on our initiative to set up primary health care centers of clinical psychologists' squares, occupational therapists, speech therapists, social workers, which allow the creation of multidisciplinary teams and provide comprehensive attention. It is necessary and possible to do so. There is no excuse here that we have no doctors; in these categories there is no such soft excuse of the People's Party that there are no professionals to hire; in these specialties there are still professionals, in the Sergas recruitment lists and in the unemployment lists, with which there is absolutely no excuse. [[Applause]] All studies say that one out of three primary care consultations have to do with mental health issues, basically anxiety and depression. Therefore, primary care is needed, which is the main health context to achieve the balance between physical and mental health, to have sufficient resources to care for this population. If it's not done, it's because the People's Party doesn't have the political will to do it, not because it's not possible to do it. So we will bring here every time we need to create multidisciplinary teams in primary care. We also demand in our initiative the creation of child and youth hospital units in all health areas. Units with multidisciplinary teams are also needed to provide comprehensive responses to needs in childhood and adolescence, to ensure that full physical and emotional development. And it's urgent to believe them, and not just to announce them. Because the People's Party has been announcing the creation of youth units for years, specifically that of Vigo. In Galicia there is only one unit, created in 2012 in the CHUS, with insufficient staff and insufficient resources. Since 2014 they have announced the creation of a child-child care unit in Vigo. And they looked at her in the Sergas Strategy 2014. They announced in this parliament the different voices of the People's Party and different advisers of the People's Party the creation in Vigo of this unit; they said it would be created with the construction of the Cunqueiro Alvaro. Seven years later and three counselors afterwards, and several voices after the People's Party, continue without the infant-juvenile unit in the Cunqueiro Alvaro. And in the other areas, they don't even promise it or announce it. A real scandal in the light of the needs of these age groups! We also demand a study to determine the effects that the pandemic is having on mental health in the population in order to establish the scope of the measures to be taken to act efficiently. We need to know the dimension of the problem. The People's Party acts continuously with opacity, and he doesn't want to know what the reality is. And the reality is that the pandemic is worsening a situation that has already come with a lot of complications from behind, because it was a precocious problem, but with the pandemic it only gets worse. Before the vault, mental health services were shallow, now they're really insufficient. And the pandemic has brought social isolation, confinement, emotional damage to the loss of loved ones, uncertainty, anxiety, depression -- that is, a whole series of associated pathologies, which we need to have resources to deal with if we don't want this situation to become a real epidemic, and what is more serious -- suffering for thousands of Greeks and Greeks. Effective assistance is the one that is accessible at the moment, when needed, and needed before the vault and now is a real emergency loan, and if it is not done at the time, then it is not useful or effective. With this situation I have just described, with this data, in the BNG we consider, of course, that it is essential to take action, to act without further delay. That is why I hope the vote on this initiative, which I continue to qualify as minimums, because these are the basic issues to start putting mental health in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u206	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mrs. Prado, even one of Vilagarcia, how much I missed one of Cambados! Welcome and this full again! So they won't say! [[Applause]] Before you start, allow me because I think there's something to celebrate sometimes. Not talking exclusively about the initiative, I would kindly like to celebrate the great arrival of vaccines in Galicia, as, of course, you announced this humble spokesman in this plenary. Contrary to the criteria that some groups had here, which said there weren't enough vaccines, and we had to explain that math was very easy: they were less than the average for health care because we had few health care; they were less than the average for residences, because we have very few residence squares -- that's the problem -- and many would get there, when we had to vaccinate the older 80s, because we have a lot bigger than 80s. And despite the negatives and the different voices and the different rough words, the vaccines have arrived, they arrive more than we have, and everyone is going to vaccinate because holding the opposite would be saying that there would be people left without vaccination. [[Applause]] And it's unfortunate that some voices defended that. [[Applause]] In any case, we believe that the initiative presented by the Galician Nationalist Block is extremely timely. We have moved to this plenary also coincidentally an interpellation, about which tomorrow we will put forward some positions to know his position, and from it, of course, the motion of the next plenary. Why? Well, because we believe, as we have been defending for a long time about mental health in this parliament, that there are several problems that need to be overcome. First of all, one that's taboo, because there's a social taboo talking about mental health. It's probably breaking with time; thanks, many times, to the referees, who transfer some cases with mental health with nature -- understand -- with what happens. Because until now problems have not moved away; it seems that mental health problems should not be explained in the same plane as others, and reality is not that, too, contribute visibility. And from that point of view, we also consider it important to defend this issue in parliaments. What is the reality in Galicia? It's tough. Galicia, of which some of the data has already been raised by Mrs. Prado, is the autonomous community with the highest consumption of anxiolytics in Spain; the second, almost the first, in antidepressants consumption, and Galicia follows with Asturias, within the data, being the most suicide community per person per year in Spain. In Galicia, twice as many people die of suicide as in traffic accidents. And we've heard a lot more about traffic accidents, which is a worrying issue, than suicides, because we have a social taboo problem on the issue. And it's not about talking anymore if the problems are going to be solved directly, but if we can move the importance of the problem. Why is this happening? Not linearly, but contextually enough is explained. The 2008 crisis has shown, among other things, that mental health problems have to do with much of the context. Successive reports from diverse and prestigious universities, researchers, and by making it more direct, more linear, SESP's annual report, the Spanish Public Health Society, showed that the 2008-2009 crisis caused a very large increase in mental health problems; particularly -- and also something pointed to Mrs Prado -- in younger ages, since the age at which they were faced and the mental health problems were known. Probably for a double effect: one, because there were more, and another because the need or capacity for visibility of these problems made more people come. And it seems, moreover, that there exists, and has always existed, a certain taboo about which the lower the age, the harder it is to assume the existence of a mental health problem. The other day they saw or were able to meet an interview in the media to a well-known social referent, especially in younger ages, Ibai Llanos, who was naturally speaking about this matter. Some sportsmen also contribute a lot to these issues, something to be thanked in general terms. This 2008 crisis brought that. We're in a situation identical to mental health. What we're basically incubating is the next big pandemic. It'll pass through the vault, less, sooner or later, we'll get past it, but we're in front of the big hangover that will bring the coward, which is the mental health pandemic, which is already raining or is probably already larvae. We have a serious problem. What's going on in Galicia to deal with it? We have the worst ratio of mental health professionals per inhabitant across Spain. It's not a 2021 thing, it was already in 2020, it was in 2019, it was in 2018 and 2017, and in 2016, in 2015, in 2014, in 2013, in 2012, in 2011 and in 2010. I was passing by and it's still going on. We have very few professionals. Look, by giving some data: here in this chamber we are seventy-five Members, not all present because of the circumstances of the vault -- and allow me to exclude from the services of the House -- and statistical data in hand: fifteen of the people we are here at some point will suffer a mental health problem in our lives, but only five of us would have access to the public health system with certain health guarantees, because there are not enough resources to address it. The other ten would stay out. The five that would come -- remember, five of seventy-five -- would be facing a system where they have an average date of thirty minutes every four months. What's the matter? That the mental health service, in fact, does not guarantee people's accessibility. Why? Because there's no way to treat in thirty minutes every four months no mental health problem in any person, no way. What's going on, then? That in the end we live in a reality where the service is purely privatized. They do the test naturally, we don't need to point it out, but you know it is. If anyone asks you about going to a psychologist, never in your head, never in the one you get that information, you'll think it's going to the public system; they'll always think of a psychologist, in a private clinic, always. And that makes this system purely privatized, because we don't have the necessary resources. What happens when a right is privatized or we actually need money to come to -- money that we're talking about is that there are people who have no capacity --? It happens that it ceases to be a right and becomes a privilege. And today mental health care in Galicia is a privilege and not a right. This is very serious. This is the reality that we live. [[Applause]] We are going to support this initiative because we believe it is going exactly on this issue. We could, of course, come in and debate something of a nuance, but it goes exactly to this question. I told Mrs. Prado that it's a minimal initiative. We've made proposals about this, even smaller than minimum, and they've always been rejected. It is true that they rejected and then announced, such as the Strategic Mental Health Plan, which was announced in 2016, and did not exist; that it was announced in 2017, and did not exist; that it was announced again in 2018, and did not exist; that it was announced in 2019, and did not exist; that it was announced in 2020 in the campaign, and that it did not exist. And do you know what happened in 2021 -- it's a spoiler thing --? Announced. You know what's gonna happen? That if we have a thousand ads, but we never do anything, we continue in the same situation, as have all these years. So what we're thinking is, I hope it's so low for approval. We'd like to. And he will, of course, count on our vote in favour. In addition, this initiative deals with some of the issues that we also understand and share. As I tell you, we probably have some nuances, but they're not enough, in any case, to put one but on the essence of the initiative; even to do a study of those things so bold to ask for information, which is done in this chamber. What's happened so far, really? So far, in addition to announcing that plan and that in 2009 there was no plan, it was not that there was no plan, but that what already existed was also deleted. What happened next? We had a general sub-direction, and the People's Party eliminated it and pursued that professional, pursued it, and tried to diminish it. [[Applause]] And it took years until he claimed his condition judicially and gave him reason. [[Applause]] They were hanged for being a member of an earlier government, for nothing else. That's the point. It happens that, in addition, a lot of professionals are talked about here, but they don't respect them very much. I'm not going to go into clinical assessments, but to announce to Sergas professionals that there will be a service of clinical care, clinical psychology and mental health, for professionals who have been demanding it for years, that there is a problem of labor burn, stress situation, and now announce it through Mr. Professionals. Wonderful isn't the solution. There are enough professionals in Galicia able to make fantastic plans and programs to work on mental health problems, to work on all the staff of Sergas and the entire population. Use us! You won't hire people because you have an aboriginal ransom name, please! [[Applause]] But in addition, there are families, such as Feafes, who report problems in the vaccination of mental health groups, which seems to speak in great terms of vaccination and do not vaccinate all the groups, and this is what is happening. There's a great pandemic going on, which is mental health. Any advance will be welcome. We're going to be in favour of everyone, but we're already late, and what we're afraid is that like always good words, good intentions, a lot of things painted in budgets and, by the end of the year -- hopefully we're wrong -- we'll be in the same situation again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u207	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u208	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Welcome, Mrs. Prado! President Feijóo announced in his investment speech that public health continues to be his highest commitment, and also announced that in this legislation the greatest mental health plan of our community would be developed, and so it is happening. At the June 26th Council of June 2020, the new Galician Mental Health Plan was adopted, and today this plan is under way and is a reality. On 8 November, in the Health Commission, we all voted in favour of a CNP that presented the Block, in which the Government urged the Mental Health Plan to be presented during the current session. And so, just a few weeks ago, on December 17, the Director General of Health Care, Mr. Aboal, noticed the kid from Galicia's Mental Health Plan. Ladies and gentlemen, mental health is a matter of concern and concern to the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. We are all aware that in recent years, already in character prior to the crisis of cowardice, we are living fast social changes, too fast, with stressful working conditions, which add up to gender discrimination, social exclusion, unhealthy lifestyles and also low educational levels, violence and physical health; all of these situations that we know cause risk factors for the development of mental disorders. And, of course, we must not forget that there are psychological personality factors as well as biological and genetic conditioners that make people more vulnerable than others to mental disorder. But the most important thing is that there are effective and profitable cross-sectoral strategies and interventions for the promotion, protection and restoration of mental health; strategies promoted by the Galician Health Service and on which it is also moving. Mental health is more than just the absence of mental disorders. Mental health is a complete state of physical, mental and social well-being, in which people can achieve their goals and are able to cope with the stress of life, situations that are not favorable to them and work proactively to contribute to their well-being and community. Mental health is a matter of interest to all, and not only to those affected by a mental disorder; it is important enough to be a problem in which we all feel involved, because it affects us all. In addition, in these moments that we are to live in a pandemic with such a long duration, with unpredictable consequences in many areas of our lives and from which there is no near resolution horizon, it is important to value the psychological and social footprint that the pandemic will leave in most of the population. And the Council of Health and the German Government are not alien to these changes, and they're working, they've been working for some time in a coordinated and orderly way in the elaboration of this mental health plan. A plan, Mrs. Prado, which is perfectly adapted to the new reality that marks the pandemic that we are living in. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an ambitious plan, which has ninety-eight projects aimed at preventing mental health problems in the Galician population, in addition to implementing improvements in socio-health care to people suffering from mental disorder and their families. We are talking about a plan committed to the sustainability of the health system, with an budget of EUR 80 million and which aims to increase the number of professionals and assistance devices, as well as the development of programmes for the recovery of people with severe mental disorders, and to promote research into these pathologies. And when you're getting into what you're asking for in your LNP, you have to tell them about the budget increase, Mrs. Prado, which, in addition to reading, you have to understand. The budgets of the Union contemplate a budget far higher than you refer to. It seems they are not able to understand that staffing, for example, that collecting the plan logically appears to be collected in chapter I, and not in headings that directly refer to the plan. In fact, for the first year of 2021, the forecast in the budgets of the Board of Directors of this plan amounts to more than twelve million euros, logically distributed in different chapters according to the type of expenditure. Besides, the plan collects the budget forecast for the next few years. With regard to point two, referring to clinical psychologists' squares, it is necessary to tell you to collect among your main objectives the promotion of access to mental health treatments in order to perform an early intervention and avoid chronication. In this sense, it aims to promote the development of liaison programs to address depression, one of the most prevalent mental health pathologies in primary care, as well as the attention of the doo and the secondary trauma, as well as experiences related to the pandemic of covid-19. To this end, this mental health plan first provides for strengthening the staff and the number of mental health units in our community: two in the area of Vigo, two in the area of Coruña and one in the area of Santiago. Which translates with the incorporation of five psychologists, ten psychiatrists, three social workers and five nurses. And another thing, Mrs. Prado: it seems a lie that you don't know that mental health units are already a basic device about what all mental health actions are based on, and patients access these by derivation from primary care. These units count -- as we should all know -- of a multidisciplinary team, which is composed of psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, nurses and social workers, in addition to the service management staff. In addition, the Union undertakes to develop mental health promotion, disease prevention and health education programs. And for this it is essential to provide each health area with a program of linkage between clinical psychology and primary care, coordinated by a clinical psychologist, who will act as a primary care consultant and will have among its functions the development of a program based on the collaborative care model. Clinical psychologists will spend part of their day working in primary care, which will promote communication among professionals. It's a program that has two aspects: on the one hand, training and technical support, with participation in clinical and interconsultative sessions, and on the other hand, assistance work, psychological support interventions and group therapies. Another additional aspect is the function of dealing with pathologies, in which a brief and early intervention can avoid the need for intervention from specific mental health devices. With this initiative, our autonomous community joins others in the state where there are already different pilot experiences with the gallo to explore innovative organizational models. Over the course of this year, seven clinical psychologists will be incorporated into this project, which means budgeting over the duration of the plan of more than three million euros. With regard to point three, which speaks of the creation of child-child care hospital units, enough will be created to assist the population. That's why there's already a commitment to build and launch a child-to-child hospitalization unit at Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, which is going to add to Santiago's hospital. And besides, in this subject of such sensitivity and transcendence, it is planned to create in all health areas of a child-to-child mental health day hospital that allows special attention of high intensity, in order to give a more intensive and frequent response, which in the possible way minimizes the need for entry of younger patients. And at the last point, ladies and gentlemen, this plan is a plan that has been revised and in which a specific paragraph has been incorporated in relation to the covid-19. In addition, a document has been prepared and sent out on the sequels to the population caused by the cod to the reactivating Commission. The Psychosocial Support Plan has already been put in place for all Sergas staff, precisely in order to be able to respond to the sequels that the pandemic could cause in the professionals of the Galician Health Service, to whom we will never thank enough for all the professional and personal efforts they have put in and are putting in the course of this pandemic. In short, ladies and gentlemen: work, effort and coordination is what is behind the development and development of this Mental Health Plan in Galicia. The most curious thing about everything, Mrs Prado, is that this initiative that we are now discussing has been recorded before you know the content of the plan. They asked the Director General to attend to explain the plan, and we all heard the Director General, who explained the plan for the kid in Commission 5th. I imagine you understood what you explained. But you don't care that the board has a forecast, that the board has a plan with a perfect plan, because you ask for the same before you present it later. I'm sorry, but this, of course, does not seem strict. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u210	Thank you, President. I, first of all, want to thank you for coming. Mr. Torrido, in fact, coming from Vilagharsia, has much more value; as expressed by Mrs. Friend. And I want to take this opportunity to thank all the people who have been interested in my state of health, because in difficult times, the truth is, that breath is very much appreciated. Thank you very much. [[General applause.]] I thank the Socialist Party for the intention to vote in favour of this initiative presented by the BNG, and that we will have the opportunity in the next plenary session to return to the issue. Of course, I regret, and I deeply regret it, Mrs. Amigo, the honourable Member of the People's Party, who again do not assume reality, who persist in trying to create that parallel story, that reality that exists only in the papers and advertising that you do, but does not exist in reality. It doesn't exist in reality! And I'm sorry they don't assume the dramatic state of mental health, which affects thousands of Galicians and Greeks, their families, their contours and they're not responding. They don't have an answer, but they're not with the vault now and they haven't had it before. And before that there are two options: to rectify, to know the magnitude of the problem, and from there to act and put resources on the table, which is what the BNG initiative is about. An initiative that demands measures and resources to remove mental health from the confinement in which it has been located for years, because it is one of the great damages of the cuts of the People's Party, these eleven years of government of the People's Party. The intention was to put it in the schedule, so I qualified it as a "minimum initiative." And the BNG introduced this initiative before the Director General came to present the plan, which was already known, because you announced it just a few days before the elections to the Greek Parliament, at a time of discount, by a government in function. That's what you guys did. And the CEO came to do what you did here today: just say it, read the introduction and four things that are in the plan. He didn't give us anything, he didn't answer the questions, he came to say some things that were better than quiet, like saying that no plans can be made for more than one legislation. That's the reality, that's the reality for which you, the Government, to Parliament, and what you do later. Look: the problems of workers and workers aren't solved -- so we're asking for resources -- with a psychosocial intervention plan to support Sergas' staff. The problems that Sergas's staff have are precarious, lack of stability, unacceptable rates, which make them have to do one at work. Those are the big problems you don't want to solve, and they want to wash your face by making us do it. Because, besides, a plan of intervention, we don't know who's going to do it with, what professionals, if the same professionals who are serving the population in general, if they have to do this. You have to be a little more serious with something as serious as this. You said here you're working on the development of the plan. I suppose you've been wrong and you mean in execution -- I say -- because I know you're working on the production, but I find it very shocking that you recognize it here. You can say that in the 2021 board budgets, I know how many millions for mental health; of course, by computing all the personnel that were already there, by calculating the shares that are for non-profit entities or other profit-oriented entities, to which you outsource their attention, but they're not ready for the board to take on the scale of the problem and put on the batteries. And even if they were, these twelve million is half what they would have to say, Madam, it's half what would correspond to these eighty-three million euros to four years. You come here and tell me that with a link between specialized care and primary care, I don't know how many problems it is. What BNG is asking is not the multidisciplinary teams in hospitals, which are much better, but there are them in primary care, in health centers, and there are no them. You don't intend to put them and you have absolutely no excuse. Just like the infant-youth units. It's good that he'll come promise you again. I've told you before: Vigo's been promised seven years, seven years! There is not the President of Parliament, who himself announced it and promised it several times, and it was going to be a reality, he was already on his way and was about to inaugurate. Counsellor Almuña has dared to say that in 2008 it is, he set a date. We're in 2021, and you announce it again. I think you should have a little bit more responsibility, and instead of announcing, do a little what we're talking about, that there are more and more problems in the infant-child population. I told you before: in Vigo's E.R., the professionals -- they're in press news -- they've detected a triple increase in suicides coming from the E.R., and what's more serious: an increase in new people in this situation. That had to be an alert, since you don't have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u212	...to put the batteries and put resources to solve it, we're talking about people's lives, and you're not even about it. I, really regret that, I really regret that we are talking about a problem of enormous magnitude, and when the pandemic passes, those who have difficulties will be worse, and they will be added to the new and the newly damaged. And at BNG, of course, we're not going to be complicit in our silence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u214	...that this issue is not addressed in this parliament as often as necessary, until you fall off the horse on the way to Damascus and get the batteries to have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u215	: Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u216	...care for mental health, with the necessary resources and the extent of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u217	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members, on the maintenance by the Greek Government of the operation of the CEIP of Baamonde, in the municipality of Begonte, with the removal of any possibility of affecting the centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u218	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this shouldn't have been happening; they didn't have to be the mothers and parents of the students of the Baamonde Town Hall concentrated in front of the Galician Parliament, and this parliamentary group didn't have to bring this initiative to this plenary. This is the reality. [[Applause]] As you know, because it was the subject of a parliamentary question to the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, in Begonte, there are two schools in operation, two public schools: the CEIP Virgin of the Corps, in Begonte, who has sixty-five students, and the CEIP of Baamonde, who has thirty. And on the part of the mayor of this county, he intends to close the CEIP of Baamonde, moving the student to the CEIP Virgin of the Corps, in order to convert the CEIP of Baamonde into a professional conservatory of music, which would depend on the autonomous administration. The action that the mayor had assured him he had with the support of the Council of Culture, Education and University. In addition, he assured -- there's the hemerothec -- that he had the commitment of that council to perform performances in both centres worth €9,200,000, for improvements in the case of the Corps Virgin CEIP and necessary reforms in the Baamonde CEIP for its transformation into a conservatory. Today we know that, indeed, there are funds for the energy adequacy of the Corps Virgin CEIP, which we think is perfect. The Plenary of the Begonte Council approved an initiative including the following points: to agree to request the Council to authorize the integration of the students of the current CEIP of the Baamonde school in the Virgin of the Corpus school, in the capital of the council; to do the necessary works in this school, not only for this integration, but to provide the centre of the facilities and services that allow this centre to be an educational reference -- watch out! -- for the whole region, both by the regulated training and by the very extensive complementary offer; that the Council transform the current School of Music "Crisanto" into a professional conservatory of music, based in Baamonde; that the current Baamonde school of its educational role, maintaining sports facilities for the same role of promoting sport in the locality; that works are carried out in the aforementioned building to enable it to install the professional conservatory of music in Begonte; that the corresponding Department of Galicia is building in Baamonde the Auditorium Camiño de Santiago -- already passing through -- as an essential complement to the professional conservatory of music and the same North Path of Compostela, and finally to enable the Mayor to carry out the necessary management for the conservation of the indicated. As if Mr. Mayor of Begonte needed to be given the full for this kind of thing! And the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, in an oral question from this parliamentary group, at the plenary meeting on January 27, the Counsellor acknowledged that there was none of the commitments, none. And commitments have appeared for energy efficiency works in the Corps Virgin CEIP. I would therefore rather think that the budgets have appeared so as not to give evidence to the mayor and that the councillor lied in parliamentary headquarters just over a month ago. And in the light of the previous one, of course, we find ourselves in a single case -- in Galicia safe, and I think that in Spain too, and possibly in the part we know of the civilized world -- of a mayor or mayor who wants to close a school with more than thirty students; when we know all of us here, it's precisely the opposite, that what we defend is the maintenance of centers working with much less than thirty students; they close when they have five. But here, not in Begonte, we're going to close that school. [[Applause]] And in Galicia there are seven conservatories that depend on the Council directly, and there are twenty-seven that depend on municipalities; that is, they are therefore municipal conservatories, and they bear an extraordinarily important burden on their budgets. As a fact: The Begonte Town Hall has for this year 2021 an budget of 2,770,690 euros, of which 620,000 are for staff, 430,000 for home support services and 1,566,000 for public services. Repeat: EUR 2.770.000. The Viveiro Town Hall -- and I'm going to ask you all for a favor: don't believe me, check it, because your budget is on your website -- it's going to provide €1.084,000 for the operation of the municipal music professional conservatory. How are you going to pay the Begonte Town Hall a similar amount? Because a conservatory, ladies and gentlemen, doesn't sit up as if it were a municipal music school or a meeting of friends, has a necessary teacher and has some specialties that you have to impart, which are -- as sure as you read -- on our initiative. They have to have the piano specialties, how much, and at least the instrumental specialties of string and wind, which make up the staff of a camera orchestra. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that we have access to the Begonte Council's request to close the Baamonde CEIP is a disincentive and that none of these actions that are intended to have the least rational, organizational, or economic support by the Council of Culture, Education and University. But the thing doesn't end there, the thing gets more of itself. In an independent newspaper on Earth Tea appears on March 4, 2021 published this new -- not that the letter would be expanded, so the printer would print it, but it would expand it to make it easier for you to read -- "Music Crisanto announces his new skills in Baamonde." [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows the House a photocopy of a newspaper page.]] And he says -- because he's inseparable and trusting in professionalism, that sometimes he asks about some public environment that this corresponds to what they said -- that "this collective assumes with unbreakable tension the challenge of contributing with culture and revitalization to the harmonisation of our rural environment, essentially around training and musical activities." "Unbelievable tension!", it sounds epic, huh? [[Applause]] But it doesn't end there, because they say, "Knowers of the difficulty of managing all the needs of society in coherent planning, value is the conscious analysis and value displayed by the different administrations acting in each process related to the transcendental project of the school-conservatory planned for Baamonde." This looks like a gesture singer, really. It seems to be exalting the virtues that must be a model for the people. Also -- and it's a personal evaluation -- it borders on histrionism. But, well, you call me attention to the neo-legal figure that this association is invented to talk about "conservatory school." Look: either it's one thing or it's another. This isn't like quantum physics, wave-body duality, that there are particles that sometimes behave like wave and sometimes like particles. Either it's a school, or it's a conservatory. And on the part of mothers and parents, they've been addressed to the Lugo Territorial Chiefship, because, if all the above were not enough, it turns out that if you're vetoing the right to apply for admission for children, children and children at Baamonde school. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: Blessed God!, the sacred freedom of choice of center! What freedom of choice do these mothers and parents have if they are told that they can't receive the application? This is a barbarity from the legal point of view, because Baamonde's school is not closed, it's not suppressed, it exists. Therefore, no one can veto any mother and no father the right to request a place in that center, unless we do good that of: treat her, because I order, command and make known. This doesn't work like this in a moderately serious state of law. And even in the case of Begonte I thought that, at least from an educational point of view, Galicia was, and you can't afford these kinds of actions; this is absolutely impossible. And what mothers and parents want in front of this parliament is that they are guaranteed that right, because they have that right, and to have to ask Galicia 2021 to guarantee a citizen the exercise of a right is not that he borders the lamentable, is that it's regrettable twice outside. [[Applause]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, we have to stop it, and we have to pass this non-law proposal so that this does not go ahead, that this school is not damaged, that it is not a decision by a mayor who organizes the network centres. I therefore hope that I have convinced your lords that it is necessary that tomorrow when we vote on this proposal, not by law, go forward unanimously. Nothing else for the moment and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u221	Thank you very much, President. He had to be a neighbour of Baamonde today, precisely the deputy of the BNG Mini Rivas, who fixed the position of this non-law proposition, but -- as you know -- a surviving quarantine didn't allow him to be here today. Just as it was yesterday, he conveyed to me that he had transferred his affection to all the neighborhood of Baamonde, especially to all the neighborhood of Baamonde that he is seeing us, that he had attended today in that car caravan to this parliament, and that he had passed on to them that I am a pride of neighbouring, that I am an example of dignity in defending public education, in defending rural education and in defending a rural life and in the future. [[Applause]] So, since it can't be otherwise, go ahead with our support for this PSdEG initiative and our courage, our encouragement and our strikes at this neighborhood that is facing a tremendously difficult situation to understand in terms of political rationality, impossible to understand in terms of rationality -- let's say -- administrative and already absolutely traumatic if we have to analyze it in terms of municipal policy. That's how it moved on its own initiative, because it's an absolute sense, something that doesn't happen in any county in the world, or -- I'm going a little further, Mr. Álvarez -- of the galaxy, that there's a mayor of a rural council that's proposing that a school be closed in rural. But a school that doesn't even comply with these casuistics that on so many occasions claims the People's Party to close those schools. If we go to an analysis of the situation -- I'm not going to stop because Mr. Álvarez has already signaled it before -- the Baamonde school, up to the last decade, was receiving a school population very similar to the one you were attending at the Virgin School of the Begonte Corps. And he did it because, given the geographic situation that this center had, he also educated students of Boveda and Pacios, of Begonte; of Soexo, in Vilalba; of Pigara, in Guitiriz. So the registration data -- which has already moved forward -- are currently about thirty children today in Baamonde, and between sixty and seventy in Begonte, but this difference has been occurring in recent years. But by going a little bit back to the latest one, it's just that last year at the CEIP Virgin College of the Corps, there were forty-seven students enrolled. It was in this course when twenty more students were enrolled, as the educational community moves, perhaps obeying the interests that sadly the posteriori are demonstrating. But what is already the fruit of delirium, and as expressed in the People's Party's own initiative, is the proposal that the mayor brought to plenary: the closing of Baamonde's school, without any consensus with the educational community, and in which he demands no less, in an act of absolutely irresponsible mega-Romania, the construction of a professional music conservatory based in Baamonde. And to me, before I went on to do an analysis of the data and the role of the Education Council itself, what I would really like was to explain, to clarify the People's Party in which these two options we found ourselves: If the option we find ourselves is that the Education Council will assume the construction of a professional conservatory of music in this center. Therefore, I hope that Mr. Rodeiro, if he will be the one who defends his position, for he also clarifys to us how it was that there was no budgetary capacity, for example, for the construction of the dance conservatory, or for expanding studies in so many other conservatories, and that now if there is. In any case, it seems incoherence. And the second option is that this is a municipal management conservatory. I'm not going to come in to value if Baamonde is an urgent and imperative need to build a professional conservatory of music. But, of course, if this is the option you're valuing, what's going to be an imperative necessity is going to be a resuscitation unit for municipal actors when they see the RPT coming from next year's budget. Of course, it's an absolutely insatiable delirium, and it went ahead with a confusing ceremony, which I want to bring here so that in it the representatives of the educational community move in, because I think it deserves an explanation by the group that supports the government. First communiqué on this issue establishing the Local Education Headquarters, which literally points out: "There is no intention to promote an initiative in Begonte Town Hall to eliminate Baamonde School." Second communication from the Territorial Delegation, in which it is expressed -- this was via telephone -- that "this measure is unknown" -- that the mayor was proposing -- "and that his intention, in any case, is not to close the school." In the face of such a statement, later on, the 18th day, it was put in communication by the Territorial Chief of Lugo again this clarification, and it was not answered. And in the face of administrative silence, you call again on the phone and what you say is that you get a good look at closing the school, but -- and that's just to get in the way -- that everything depends on the mayor, and that therefore the educational community should meet with the mayor to clear up the matter of closing the school. This is no longer a matter of galaxies, this is a matter of universes! This has certainly not been looked at in any other context than a mayor who determines that centres are closed that are competent to the Council of Galicia. But let's look at this situation again in the light of the answers and questions, in this case the Education Inspectorate of the Territorial Delegation of Lugo, who at first denied what the Territorial Chief had just said, and says it's not planned to do unification or elimination of centres as to the autonomic field, as it's a question of other territorial heads. Asking if you have any notice or proposal from the Begonte Town Hall, what you say is that there is no communication or proposal and that the council itself has no such disaffectation either. And finally, another of the issues that answers is that the Territorial Head of Culture, Education and University of Lugo has no intention of promoting an initiative by the Begonte Council. I don't know if they're able to follow the sequence of events, but, in any case, what's alone is that they're laughing in the face of Baamunda's neighborhood and that they're insulting in an absolutely uncondemned way to people who are concerned about the education and the future of their children. And you see these contradictory answers: first, no, then yes, now again, then no, then yes again, then perhaps, they put this writing in the knowledge of the Councillor for Education and Culture, who, surprisingly, still today did not respond. I believe that the answer that must be given today by the group that supports the Government, which was in advance of Mr. Álvarez, is how it is possible that a center that is active, a center that has not been suppressed, is denying the registration to the families of Baamundu who want to register their children there. Baamonde's neighbours out there demand an explanation of why they're inculcating their rights and committing a law fraud. I think it's up to the People's Party to clarify all these issues, because the problem is not just that if rural education is being attacked anymore, it's not just that they are attacking the rights of these families, but that, in addition, if they are doing through a ceremony of confusion, with alleviation, with nighttimeness, and on the side of the mayor, we have to point out that, in our trial, in a politically fast way. Go forward -- and finish, president -- all our support for this initiative, all our support and all our courage also to the education community in Baamonde. We're with you: Whale doesn't close! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Lourenzo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor Mr. Roder Tato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late again in this last non-legislative proposal that we are going to debate this afternoon. The truth is that the intervention of Mr. BNG's spokesman was grandloquent, especially when he referred to that in no place in the world, not even in any galaxy, a school was closed, and you in the budget debate even proposed closing the school of his people, which was agreed upon, and said that the schools had to be closed. So, finally, everyone says at the fair how it goes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What I would like if I were to expose our position, the positioning of this group, and somehow explain the proposal made by the Begonte Town Hall, which proposes a reorganization of the student from center to center within the same municipal term and also a change of use of a building as a musical formation space. This proposal requires a bet to improve the provision of the service, avoiding groups of students of different ages in the same class. Integration would therefore be beneficial for the student, thus avoiding forming mixed groups, which will result in the best functioning of the centre, making it compatible with the rationalization of educational supply and efficient use of resources with the quality of education. The Galician Union will make a public investment in education, the most important in recent years in Begonte City Hall, with a contribution of 600,000 euros for the full rehabilitation of the Corps Virgin CEIP. The truth is that the opposition in this chamber would also have to review its actions in relation to educational centers and the suppression of ESO cycles and primary centers during the Bipartite. When I suppressed... yes, yes, when I suppressed ESO cycles and forced students to travel up to thirty-eight kilometers away, moving students and students further away and even to other municipalities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] The Town Hall of Begonte -- as everyone knows -- has an estimated population of 3,000. As it was exposed here -- and Mr. Álvarez pointed out -- the Baamonde CEIP has created three units that work as mixed groups. I mean, one unit with children of 3, 4 and 5 years old, and two primary education units; one unit with children of first, second and third grade in the same class; and the other unit with children of fourth, fifth and sixth grade in the same class. So nine children's education students, twenty-one primary education -- a total of thirty -- as was said here --. And the other center of the Virgin of the Corps has created and functioning two units of child education and three primary education, with twenty-one pupils of children and forty-four primary; a total of sixty-five students, who also have six teachers and an integrated transportation and dining service. The proposal being moved by the Begonte Town Hall for the reorganization of the two primary and infant schools is a proposal made within the framework of municipal competences, since the Council is the holder of these two schools. A democratic proposal -- I want to remember -- agreed in the municipal plenary by an absolute majority and that the representatives of this chamber, at least, we must take it into consideration. We respect it as it is in democracy. They also respected it and shared it with the two concelers of the Socialist Party, who at first said they supported this measure. And I don't know what happened after Mr. Knight passed by. [[Murmurs.]] It seems that, as the opposition to the Union was to be brought against it, it disallowed the Socialist Party's concellors at the first moment. Therefore, as any proposal should be studied, analyzed and, of course, with educational and pedagogical criteria by the Council. And the proposal of the union of both centres, with the integration of the student from the center of Baamonde into the Virgin of the Corps, once analyzed, is understood to be positive for the interest of the student of this municipality. The feasibility and opportunity with regard to the integration of the Baamonde student into the Virgin of the Corps is also endorsed by the report of the Educational Inspection. So, if we take into account the data from all the students in the two centers, we could form a center with a course for each class. That is, a classroom for a quarter of childhood education, with ten pupils; a classroom for a fifth of childhood education, with twelve pupils; a sixth school for child education, with eight students; a primary school, with seven students; a primary school, with nine pupils; a third primary school, with seven pupils; a fourth primary school, with fourteen pupils; a fifth primary school, with twelve students; and a sixth primary school, with sixteen pupils. A total of ninety-five students. The truth is that the ratios resulting from each class -- how we can check -- are and are very much below the same demanded here today by some party. In this way, each student would be in his or her corresponding course, which favors the curriculum development of each course, avoiding groupings of students of different ages in the same class and keeping all students in the same county. The reorganization of the two centres would involve a reinforcement of the current number of teachers and with more opportunities for access to more educational programs. In short, this integration seems beneficial to the student, thus avoiding the formation of -- as we said -- of the mixed groups, which will make for better functioning. And in addition, the centre will receive a very important investment of 600,000 euros to implement a complete comprehensive energy rehabilitation plan, which makes it a much more comfortable center to be used for the whole educational community of Begonte. Therefore, reorganization will allow us to leave for other uses -- as the mayor asks -- facilities located in the Baamonde parish with the corresponding disaffectation -- as the mayor says -- and to be able to use it as a music school, maintaining also an educational end and, of course, inspired by that Music School "Crisanto", which I think has gone along a long journey. So there's no attack on rural people; there's a bet on improving benefits, avoiding groupings of students of different ages in mixed classes and organizing them all in a single primary and childhood education center, by educational levels and according to their corresponding ages. It's important to hear the preventive criticisms of closing an educational center, but also to listen to the opportunity to improve the quality of education that this reorganization assumed. And I also think it's good to remember and it's good to make history in this province, to make balanced assessments between when it's governed and when it's in the opposition. What you criticize as closing is a reorganization of a building that is going to have an educational and musical activity. And the truth is, I'm asking: you, the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, who talk about rural gambling -- you told them at first -- is betting rural about closing cycles in children's and primary education centers, forcing schoolchildren to travel up to thirty-eight kilometers away? And besides, I don't say it, i mean, April 23, 2008: "Abolition of cycles. Schools obliged to travel up to 30 kilometers. 129 students in the Lugo province who would have to travel in some cases up to 38 kilometers, as in the parishes of Portomarín." [[Mr. Rondeiro Tato shows the House a colour-printed photocopy.]] So, in fact, it's very easy to say something when you rule and say the opposite when you're in the opposition. We bet on the countryside. It's going to have a rehabilitated center with 600,000 euros for ninety-five students; a more modern, better equipped, energy efficient and comfortable for all the students, and it's going to have unfolded all the courses, to have some of the lowest ratios in our surroundings. So -- it's also said in the non-law proposition itself, and Mr. Álvarez reminded him -- I think we're faced with a single case, unpublished in Galicia and probably in Spain by a mayor who wants to close a school with more than thirty students. Well, yes, there's a mayor who wants to take a childhood school by surprise, without any alternative, without planning and putting the children in the street and blaming the others. And that's a mayor of the Socialist Party, called Abel Caballero. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u225	Thank you again, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the announced vote in favour of the Galician Nationalist Block for this initiative. I also want Mr. Rivas Cruz, Mini, to recover or re-enter -- better said, more precisely -- rather than this parliament. Mr. Wheel, it's hard to leave me without words. I recognize him. [[Laughter]] It's not that he has a tendency to unmeasured foolishness, but his intervention leaves me with little room to say: said something sensible. We can come to some agreement with what he said, but paraphrasing Federico Trillo, in his capacity as chairman of the Congress of Deputies, after hearing it, [sends eggs!] Mr. Wheel, please, you can't come here to defend as an improvement in educational quality the fact that students are not grouped, because that denies the greatest, always. How many centers are there in Galicia ahead of you that have classes grouped? Do you want me to give you the turn of words and come here and say they have a bad quality of teaching? Please, reality is what it is. That was your argument. And his intervention wasn't spiraling, so one goes by successively for the same argument but slowly expanding what he's saying. No, it was cyclical. I said the same six times! He spoke four times about student groupings, he spoke four times about the 600,000 euros and the energy efficiency of the Corps Virgin CEIP -- what I said we agreed with -- I wish they had done it in all the centers! And not by instance of a mayor or plan to save Private Ryan from what he said and where he went. But do you really mean that municipal proposals are always approved in this parliament? Hundreds of initiatives, both from the Galician Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, adopted at the municipal level, are voted against by you. Mr. Roder, this should be a little more serious debate. What Mr. Lourenzo pointed out -- that I by courtesy of my origin didn't want to speak, but since he said so, I'm going to stick to the argument -- that it's not acceptable in a modern state, in a modern autonomous community, in a modern administration that from a service, well from the Educational Inspectorate, well from a territorial head who has competences in the province in the field of education, if he says he responds to the parents who have to speak with the mayor. But what is it? The state is me! The Sun King of Begonte! Man!, really, this is the absurd thing -- as I said before -- but twice outside. [[Applause]] This is unacceptable, really, man! They say yes, that the decision has been made, that it will be closed because it has the ability to close because the law gives it organizational capacity. I won't question that. If they decide to close, they'll close. But don't tell people to talk to the mayor. This can't be! This isn't serious! The people of Begonte, the people of Baamonde, the mothers and the parents who want to educate their children in the CEIP of Baamonde do not deserve this treatment, they don't deserve that if none of them, they don't deserve not to comply with the rules of the Education Council themselves, they don't deserve to close a centre through the facts without doing the process of closing the center. They don't deserve it! Mr. Wheel, with regard to Mr. Caballero, the mayor of Vigo, with whom you have an obsession, which I understand, will speak tomorrow to my companion Isaura Abelaras. [[Laughter]] Don't worry, there'll be time to talk about Santa Marta's School of Child Education. [[Applause]] But I'm going to make a film adaptation for me recommended, which is Time to kill -- if you're interested in seeing her, if you haven't seen her yet --. I'm going to make a proposal: when tomorrow they're going to give the button, close their eyes; imagine a council with a school of thirty students, imagine that a mayor wants to close that school, imagine that the mayor has a project without any meaning, imagine that the mayor counts with the complicity of the self-government, and before giving him the button, open his eyes and think they'd do it if the mayor was outside the PSdG. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr. Álvarez, we're retreating, aren't we? We've removed it. It doesn't have to be so explicit. No, no. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see... [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived on the way to his chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u227	I'm asking you... Home! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u228	...I, before they call me in order, I'd rather remove it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-09-DSPG027.u229	I know it was such a fruit and it has no bigger history. But, of course, if we let some happen, then we have complicated comparisons with other cases. Please. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez, words not perceived.]] Thank you. I knew what you were talking about. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much.
