ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u1	Let's move on to the next plenary session, which is already an ordinary plenary session. And, in this case, he justified his in attendance, Mrs. Rosa Pérez Fernández. Let's start with point 1 of the agenda, motions. Motion of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union for the defense of Galician river ecosystems
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u2	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u3	Mr. Aranguena has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the plenary session of this Parliament four weeks ago, the Socialist Parliamentary Group voted in favour and the PP voted against the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the emptying of applause. Justification for that unjustifiable vote -- according to the PP spokesman -- is that where that commission of inquiry has to be formed, it's in the state parliament. But you know that it's perfectly compatible to form a committee of inquiry in Congress and form it also in the Galician Parliament, if it were the case. And they also know that we're talking about four embalms located in Galicia, in the rivers of Galicia, and about which the Galician Union itself opened sanctioning files, even though it was ridiculous amounts. And that's why they tell us in this Parliament -- as Mr Feijóo said in the press round -- that the opening of a commission of inquiry is in Congress is one of the most important pieces of hair in Galicia, because voting not on a commission of inquiry, after saying, as Mr Feijóo said in the press round, that the emptying of applause this summer is an irresponsibility of enormous ecological transcendence, a nonsense which had not seen anything equal in his twelve years of government, is incomprehensible if you have a minimal sense of political decorum. You can't say these things so terrible that Mr. Feijóo said and said, as the counselor said, that there is convolence between the state and the electricians, and then you don't facilitate with your parliamentary majority a commission of inquiry regarding these very facts, which is what you did with your vote. And in the same line, it results from an unbearable cynicism all that Mr. Feijóo and the Environmental Advisor on this subject, when within the broad environmental competences of the Union is the protection of river ecosystems, which are enormously ecologically important, recognized by the Government of Emilio Pérez Tourin with the promulgation of Law 5/2006, for the protection, conservation and improvement of the rivers of Greece; a rule that is unfortunately omitted and systematically unmet as regards its principles and its specific obligations for fifteen years by the Government of the People's Party. Furthermore, the rivers of Galicia -- as I have repeatedly repeated to them in this Parliament -- fall under the preventive and sanctioning regime, not one, but three autonomous laws of Galicia, which seems to be unknown to the lady Counsellor who, in view of her intervention in this House a few weeks ago, would have said she did not bother to consult the legislation of her department. That's right, there's never a fool in your schedule on Wetlands Day, a fool in Water Day, a fool in Environment Day and statements to say that what a beautiful Galicia is and what a beautiful fish are; how beautiful birds, flowers, rivers, what green everything and green is Galicia's PP. If in exchange for green is gray -- as it really is --, because it doesn't matter because we paint it green and ready. Put on green propaganda! The last discovery of the U.S. propaganda in the field of pseudo-green propaganda is the eastern role of "fermosism". Yesterday I told the Environment Adviser in the Budget Committee that we like Galicia very much, we love Galicia and look very beautiful in its natural state. The problem is that the expression "feism" was invented in Galicia not by chance, but by causality, because it is a defining characteristic of the deterioration of our landscape, of our urbanism, of our environment; against which you allow, support and encourage all kinds of aggression. And that abysmal distance between Galicia happily from the official propaganda that sells us every day and Galicia real from the problems of territory and citizenship does not fight with neo-lingual George Orwell style, as to call it "energy value" to waste incineration, nor with its so-called "Millary River Project", so-called and so-publicized. [[Applause]] Yesterday even the advisor told us that Project Mile Rivers is going to extend to 17 rivers; then, it won't be 1,000, it will be 17; but in April this year it said it was 4. An un rigged data and figures salad that only serves to falsify the reality that the rivers -- our rivers -- are unprotected and in constant deterioration, in constant and growing deterioration. And the reality is that this summer's pure episode in Tambre, which was the most mediatic, but there were many more episodes of pollution in so many rivers and rivers of Galicia. Or the contamination of the Ten, to put another example, with 5 episodes this summer that reproduces those that have been taking place for decades. And Mr. Feijóo at the last control session of this Parliament -- not the last one, there are three or four -- had the undoing and the slide to literally say that Vigo's laugh is completely healed. But it turns out that, according to your own data, Vigo's laugh has 209 green points, of which 23 are black points. He also literally said that "Arouse's creek is almost healthy" -- this one is no longer completely healthy, like Vigo's in official propaganda, but it's almost healthy -- when, according to its data, it has 444 green spots, of which 56 are black dots. That is the level of fraud Mr Feijóo tells us in this Parliament, and the level of the sidereal distance between Galicia happy official propaganda and real Galicia. And the statements and actions of two councillors and Mr. Feijóo on the theme of the emptying of the floodgates of the Hydrographic Confederation show a level of falsity, irresponsibility and inappropriate scapism of a democratic government. And I've already said here -- and I repeat -- that the prevarication is rosing, if it doesn't go directly to it, because after the blame -- to vary -- the central government and that Mr. Feijóo said in press on September 2 that the Board was not informed by the electric companies, on September 3, Iberdrola's emails are published -- two Iberdrola's emails -- from June 10th and July 12th, which demonstrate with tremendous proof that Mr. Feijó lied to Galicia once again, and to vary. And the lie in democracy should give rise to responsibilities, but Mr. Feijó gives him everything just as long as he denied his friendship with a well-known drug-trafficking person, and a game went out that, in societies with more democratic tradition than ours, would have given rise to the end of his political career. Despite being informed by double departure by Iberdrola and the Hydrographic Confederation, the German Government took seventy days to initiate four sanctioning files for the ridiculous amount of EUR 25,000 each. But even today, 135 days after Iberdrola's first communication, you did not determine the legally established and mandatory preventive measures by the Galician Fisheries Regulation, which obliges Junta to tell the electricians what measures they have to take to avoid harm. 135 days have passed and Junta hasn't done anything, except to open four ridiculous records to companies that, like Iberdrola, have a profit of 3,610 million in 2020; 50,000 euros in total for a company like Iberdrola that wins in a year 3,610 million, and to which it laughs directly with its sanction. And when they're criticized for the ridiculousness of that matter and when they're criticized for you this year, because you've lowered the amount of the penalty for emptying of cheers by 95% with the modification of Galician Fisheries Act, you don't answer or speak of the state's evil progressive government, to vary. That same thing, by the way, he faced the electricians the way he did recently. Or they say they could sanction 2 million, but they don't sanction or initiate a sanctioning file because what they started was amounting to 25,000 euros. And if they start file by the Fisheries Act and amount to 25,000 euros, they can't do it by the Natural Heritage Act and by the amount of 2 million, because our legal system -- as the advisor should know -- doesn't allow it because there's a basic principle of right called non bis in idem, which means that they can't sanction the same facts twice. And you've opted for the smallest sanction before you realize that you could impose a larger sanction, an example of maximum incompetence; an awful ridiculous administration that has prepared means and officials, but that gets the belt up to environmental prejudice and for Mr. Galán's sake, Mr. Feijóo's friend who gave you the famous press release of the 2009 photo. [[Applause]] And we do not ask in our motion for extraordinary things or that the Board cannot perfectly assume; in fact, it must assume. In particular, we ask you, one: to defend Galician river ecosystems by applying, with the utmost diligence, the competences derived from autonomous legislation, including the adoption of the preventive measures necessary to protect the environment from any aggression, and the imposition of the highest penalties that they carry out; and to develop an inventory of the ecological status of rivers and supports of our community, in collaboration with universities and entities committed to the preservation of the river environment, which is updated at least annually and publicly accessible. We therefore call for the effective protection of the rivers of Galicia by applying, in its entirety, the binding legislation; which, of course, for that is, even if you seem to be unknown. Are you going to vote against it? If they do, they will be acknowledging in this Parliament that the rivers of Galicia and the environment of Galicia matter to them. Nothing else. We'll continue later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u5	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u6	Good morning. Look at this photograph -- well, it's not a photograph, it's a picture -- it's entitled "The main problems of the rivers of Greece." [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House a document.]] If you could observe it from closer to you, you would see here, for example, the coronation of the Forcadas, with high levels of phosphorus, zinc and phytoplankto; the Castro River, with greens of lead and mercury; the Tambre, mercury; the Umia, mercury; the Lérez, lead; the Golden River, tin; the Eume, phosphorus and chromium; the Sar... Finally, a long list of rivers contaminated in Galicia and with chemical contamination, contamination of heavy metals, with severe environmental problems. The problem is, there are some anomalies in this picture. The first is, of course, contamination itself -- which is a serious environmental problem -- and the second is that -- if you look -- here there are three quarters of the territory of Galicia, because it only appears, when you talk about pollution of the rivers of Greece, the pollution of Galicia-Costa, which is about which it competes with the Union of Galicia; and the three quarters of the country, which do not exist. This is the reality of the anomaly we have, with the division of powers between the Union and the State, because most of the country is under the dependence, under the guardianship, under the control and under the responsibility of the State. That's how this question works. [[Applause]] And, of course, we have several problems -- I would like to highlight two -- on this issue. The first problem is indeed this lack of competence on an important part of the territory, but the main problem for me is that of incompetence, that of the obvious inability of the Galician Union to solve the great problems that the rivers of Greece have, as it stands out from the data, which are official data of the Galician Waters, which I will then detail. And, of course, it's not just a problem of lack of incompetence for not having the skills, it's also because there's a division of competences in the Greek Government that prevents proper management of this issue. Because, on the one hand, it's the hand of the Galician Waters; on the other hand, it's the hand of the Environment; and one hand doesn't know what the other does. [[Applause]] That's how this government works. I don't know if you're called a bigober or a bipartite anymore, because you agree with the two advisories to solve these problems that you have to deal with. And of course, a lot of questions should be asked about this, right? Why is this happening? Because it's not a problem that rains from the sky, even though water comes from the sky, it's a problem that responsibility is not either of the Bipartite, of that famous Bipartite, of the other Bipartite, of what he's been ruling in Galicia for three and a half years; it's from the government that's been ruling twelve years on this subject and that he's been unable to solve all these problems. It's the People's Party, the People's Party's Union, for three fundamental reasons. The first because of the flagrant failure of the law of the Greek rivers -- which I have to correct Mr. Arunguena -- is not a law of Mr. Pérez Touriño. It was the first popular legislative initiative law adopted in this Parliament; on a popular legislative initiative, not on the initiative of the Government. The credit is for the people who have mobilized themselves, who have been organized to pass this law, who have been systematically kept in a drawer and violated by the People's Party's Union Government. [[Applause]] This is a very serious issue because it was a law that provided for issues such as comprehensive protection of river ecosystems, comprehensive sanitation measures of watercourses or citizen participation in water policies. By the way, as the Water Framework Directive and as well as the new water culture marks. Second case. You have mastered the policy of resources for various uses, especially hydroelectric, with the predominant mini-hydraulic in Galicia-Costa, and the great hydraulic, the great coronations in the Mino-Sil basin, which is an inherited issue of franchiseism, but which you keep, even avoiding entering -- I say, in this case -- in responsibilities -- also the central government above all -- in the rescue and recovery of concessions that are going to expire. And we have, for example, powerful data here such as these 4 billion euros of profits from the big electrics, those companies from the turning doors and hugs, which cost us so much, while leaving an absolute desertification, depopulation and decline in those areas that could benefit, in any case, and not by this policy. And thirdly, because of the failure of the Board to address the main causes of pollution, which are basically: One. Farming vegetables. I mentioned earlier the Fork case, I could cite the case of Umia's coronation, we could also quote the recent case of Tambre, right? and we could finally cite Curtis' case, the case of the Ten and a lot of cases in the Greek rivers because of this problem that can't be controlled and trimmed, and it's the responsibility of the Board to do it. Secondly, by vegetables of mining activities. Look, I'm going to read you a recent press headline: Varilongo mine greens exceed 325 times -- 325 times -- the cadmium threshold allowed; copper levels are 145 times higher than the legal maximums accepted; and zinc levels are 100 times higher. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a document.]] This is the reality of the Greek rivers. We could also talk about rivers contaminated by the Touro mine. Finally, we could talk about many other rivers that are being contaminated, for example, by the San Fins mine. By the way, I spoke about Varilongo, and they know that there is a judicialization of this case, this mine, for the opening in 2011, without counting on the procedure of environmental assessment, and two senior positions of the Board are being charged and one third is being protected under this Parliament. And finally, we also have greenery for industrial activities. There's the case of Furelos, who knows the environmental advisor well, but he's not able to solve it in his county, is he? Or urban greenery for the malfunction of the sanitation and purification system. And now Junta is afraid to blame the Town Councils, when it's a matter on which she has direct responsibilities. Here are the scandalous and alarming cases, such as one we have here very close, that of the Sar River, which is one of the most polluted rivers of Galicia; the Sar River, in the heart of Galicia, in the heart of the capital of Galicia. Or the scandalous case of the Barbagna River... I have here also some recent news from the press -- this will sound to Mrs. Marta Novoa -- "A lot of a million euros to the San Cibrao Town Hall for dumping into the Barbagna." [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a document.]] More than seventy complaints of greenery to this river, which is a real sink to the open sky, with the consent and permission of the State Government Hydrographic Confederation and also of the municipalities through the river; and it does not move a finger to solve these problems. [[Applause]] That's right, Mrs. Novoa. The data is here. Anyway, let's go to the data. Because, of course, I could be here making up news, right? -- that are news from the media, they might not be true -- but we're going to data from Galician Waters, which has a tracking, control system -- speaking of the PSOE motion on this issue, there's this system --. So, 22% of the rivers and the rivers of Greece -- and we're referring only to Galicia-Costa -- suspends the European Union's environmental requirements. I mean, 108 thirds of rivers, coroners or coastal areas don't meet the environmental objectives that were to be met in 2015, that they had to be met in 2021 and that they don't meet, and now we have to postpone the seven more years. This is essentially about Galicia-Costa, the responsibility of the Galician Union. But the problem is we didn't get any better, the problem is we were already in this situation or even with less vegetables and less contaminated truces in 2017 and 2018. We went the worst, or we're the same. Why do we have a government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party if they don't solve these issues? And they'll also blame the municipalities of this, of course, because now it's fashion: the fault of the water is of the municipalities. The same could be said of laughter. You assume they invested more than 1,100 million euros in sanitation, in purification. So why do we have more than 1,500 greens in the Galician rivers and we have the Arousa River, which is the most productive of Galicia and which is the most polluted of Galicia? How do you explain this? This is your responsibility. Anyway, I think they have to change the advertising of the Union, and instead of selling that advertising of the Green Galician Union -- green eucalyptus -- they're going to have to sell Galicia brown, with arum, -- that's not harpado--, the Brown Galician river and polluted river streams. And to finish with, a little reference to the theme of emptying floodlights and hydraulic skills, which was a real scandal. It is clear that you have overseen the inquiry commission in this Parliament and have said they did everything right. But if they did everything right, what problem do they have to investigate, how do you know everything that happened here? Which, by the way, is the responsibility of the two governments: of the Union, of course, because it did not cut him when he could do it and had knowledge of these facts, of the emptied, and he did not; and also of the Central Government, of course, of the Confederation, because he did not move a finger to avoid this situation. [[Applause]] About hydraulic skills, to finish. We tabled an amendment to create a transitional situation because we know that, at the moment, it is likely difficult to reach the transfer of competences on the Mino-Sil, Limia-Tamega hydrographic basins, which are not of responsibility at this time in Galicia, because they are inter-Community or international. Well, the solution is in that law, precisely, of the Greek rivers of the year 2006, of popular legislative initiative, which in its second transitional provision says: "While the State possesses powers in the fields of hydrological planning in the basins of the Mino-Sil and Limia and Thamega systems, the board of Galicia will manage its participation as an integral part of the committee of competent authorities in the aforementioned basins, depending on the specific weight that this committee should have to correspond to Galicia." Of course, if we have 90% of Mino-Sil's watershed, the logical thing is that we have the maximum participation, the maximum decision-making capacity and the maximum ability to decide what is done with the money that is invested, for example, in this basin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u8	I'm done. As I said before, it's not just a matter of competition, it's a problem of incompetence, of manifest inability, of lust to give a solution to the poor state of the rivers of Greece, and it's something that pay the rivers, that pay the ecosystems and that we pay all the Galicians and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u9	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. We started this session with this motion, the result of the interpeleration on the policy of the Union in relation to the management of the chorus. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, after the reading of the motion put forward by the Socialist Group, because I don't know what you are deducting, I don't know what you can think of, but, really, this question was a full question on September 14th, and in Commission 7th, on September 15th, despite Mr Aranguena's unfortunate tone and expressions. The Environmental Counsellor was absolutely clear in explaining himself, giving a thorough and successful response to his intervention, above all, escapist and unnerved about the management of the choirs. Look, the truth is, when I read your motion, I directed the intervention to the other side because it seemed to me that, by focusing on the protection of ecosystems, I had made it clear to them what was the responsibility of emptying the frames. Whose responsibility, Your Honor, because we've been talking about this since July and August, and it's something we care about and take care of. Who's responsible for the unjustified emptying and responsible for the cheers? Responsibility of who in the drastic and abnormal fallout of the gatherings belonging to the Mino-Sil demarcation, of state competence? Insufferable cynicism is yours, Mr. Aranguena, that this question has no longer been taken. And that's despite the fact that you wanted to go with this motion from the issues to the frame, giving it a marked environmental character, because I think it should have been half clear to you who was responsible for that empty wildling, and they must have taken letters in the matter. Too bad, gentlemen, they have the central government left! Yes, ladies. It is disturbing, Mr. Arangüena, that you have to come to the Minister of Ecological Transition to tell you who is in competition with state legislation, saying that the President of the Confederation could prevent the disassembly. Look at, the media, September 16, and I quote in writing: "The Government recognises its responsibility to the Union for emptying the embalsas" -- "recognize"--. You've lost all credibility, so today you've talked less about responsibility and talked less about management, but the case is that something should continue to talk about. You have been thrown, Mr. Aranguena, into Mr. Quiroga's defense. With the obscuration and the search for justifications, it has not reached and has not read well Article 80.3 of the Rules of the River Fisheries Act. Even Mr Quiroga, in his reply to the German Government, acknowledged that the Confederation permits emptying, that it has not applied Article 55 and that the Government will reform this regulation. This makes me think things weren't very good. Look if they knew who was responsible and look at who took Galicia's hair off! Of course they knew it, Mr. Aranguena, but as always, what it's about is making noise to see if it hangs. [[Applause]] Why, if not, did the Minister Ribera's department go quickly to publish in the BOE Royal Decree 17/2021, changing Article 55 to make emptying more restrictive? Why does the Secretary of State, Hugo Morán, speak of the damage caused in the scraps in Galicia by undertaking to articulate the necessary means so that this will not happen again? Why does the secretary have to make those statements if, in your opinion, the responsibility was Galician? From this parliamentary group, what we question -- not to say we denounce and criticize -- is why at the time they didn't put all their efforts to question public opinion, because they hijacked the information. Great inconsistencies would have the Galician Union! Did you look at Galicia's choirs? The situation was normal. Why wouldn't the others be the same? We have the statements of the minister, the secretary of state and the first vice president -- whenever they take them into account, of course, and do not disallow it -- that's what they take into account. And in the absence of a little, on yesterday's day, the answer from the European Commission -- and if you don't, I'll send it to you -- in which it says, "The Hydrographic Confederation of Mine-Sil is responsible for setting the necessary conditions for the permit in relation to the operation of the landings and the monitoring of compliance with the regulations." Mr Sinkevicius, on behalf of the European Commission, I think it is becoming clearer. What makes it clear is that the Galician Union, since minute one, has closely monitored the evolution of the levels of occupation of coronations. Environmental agents dependent on the Council, ladies and gentlemen, moved to the coronations, seeing the possible conditions on flora and fauna and there were inspections of the office, ordered by Natural Heritage, to check those possible damage to biodiversity. And these inspections will be repeated as often as necessary. The Council of Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, from the very first moment, has highlighted the concern about the situation of these concoctions. He tried to clarify the circumstances. The Galician Union acted in a fast, powerful, and comprehensive way. The German Government has taken measures and opened the files that are being processed, Mr. Arangüena. It seems like a lie to you here about the procedure, if you know the procedures that follow. And, at this point, we can begin to fit that content of your motion. As for actions, first, there is the law; second, the fieldwork, which will confirm the transcendence of affections, which will be analyzed and studied. And since the files are being processed, ladies and gentlemen, you can't figure them out until it's over. Installing Galician Union to defend river ecosystems. But are you guys kidding? As it cannot be otherwise, the Environment Council has continued to protect the river ecosystems of Galicia; a complementary protection of the powers exercised by the concave bodies on the quality of water resources and the protection of the public hydraulic domain. Every now and then, any of you, ladies and gentlemen, the 165 agents and 95 vigilantes who hold the Council, and they would check that they carry out a continuous monitoring work on Galicia's natural heritage, including rivers and coroners. So this guardianship is taking place in a real and effective way, along with the reinforcement of the Autonomic Police. At this moment, the situation of concoctions is similar to summer, since contributions are not yet sufficient to achieve the recovery of last spring's quotas. It's of great importance -- as you mentioned -- the communication of the actions of that package. Of course it's important. Why? Because of the high environmental risk involved. The rapid and intense landings cause a high level of stress to the populations in the cours, both for the loss of vital space and for the change in water quality. Thus, this obligation of communication to the Natural Heritage Service is fundamental, ladies and gentlemen, to take, of course, the precautionary measures that correspond in each case and, above all, because it is a fundamental principle of environmental legislation and the protection of natural heritage. When they talk about preventive measures, do you know what we're talking about? It is necessary to strengthen coordination between administrations, Mr Bará, of course, if you are on the side of the municipalities, with the State administration, and to work together towards precautionary measures in accordance with the implementing rules, avoiding situations such as those brought here today for the fourth or fifth time, as are the scraps of Galician coronations. As for the ecological state of rivers or coroners, the Environmental Council periodically carries out inventories of flora and fauna, as well as updating the mapping of the Welsh habitats, including, of course, the rivers. Follow-up to the ecological status of rivers in compliance with the Habitat Directive is for coke bodies, ladies and gentlemen, as laid down in the hydrological plans. According to these plans, periodic controls are carried out on the physical-chemical quality of water and biological quality, which will ultimately determine the final classification of the masses. The next planning cycle proposes the inclusion of new indicators, among which fish populations would be found. The situation of empty containers stabilized at the end of August, and they remain at similar levels. Determined, therefore -- and I hope that definitely, ladies and gentlemen -- the responsibility, let the files continue their processing. And the only wish of this parliamentary group is that we don't have to bring to this chamber facts and events so unfortunate that they endanger one of Galicia's largest identities, which is its water. Nothing brings your motion again, Mr. Aranguena, as far as the Council of Galicia is concerned. In any case, if you have any doubts about the operation or departure of the files, you may also ask Iberdrola, who have some fellow who is now around. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Mouteira, while you were talking about it, I was consulting an information from a couple of days ago or yesterday that says, "The board will have to pay a million euros in interest for not responding to a court notice I had on spam." And, of course, if Junta sends the court notices to spam, then what will she not do with Iberdrola's communications? I mean, you send everything to spam. And if they follow that path, they will end up sending the whole Galicia to spam and, above all, to the rivers of Galicia. [[Applause]] I welcome, firstly, Mr Bará's correction of this popular legislative initiative, which was indeed popular legislative initiative, and not from the Government at that time. In any case, we must comply. And that's what we ask of our motion, that all the legislation of Galicia be fulfilled. My motion, Mrs. Mouteira, does not speak of emptying cologne, speaks of protection from river ecosystems. You spoke abundantly of the emptying of cheers, and I quite less. But, in any case, I can read quite well, and I'm afraid I can interpret the law much better than the "green propaganda" advisor, especially when that article 83 -- which you quote -- says what you say, and doesn't even need to be interpreted because its literality is very clear. It's the Union that has to take and tell hydropower companies what action they have to take. But -- I insist -- there are three other laws that allow you to take preventive measures, and allow you to sanction them, too. You say the file is in progress. Look, the file literally proposes a fine of 3,000 to 25,000 euros, not two million. You read the sanctioning file, and you'll see that you put it, you don't put two million euros. So I'm telling you, they chose the smallest penalty and they're going to have to pay for that smaller penalty. We'll see about that in his own time. In any case, I was saying in my first intervention that we did not ask for extraordinary things, we simply asked the Union to protect and defend the rivers of Galicia, the ecosystems that make up, applying in its entirety and intensity the Vigilance; also to develop an annual inventory, updated, public, etc., of the ecological state of our rivers; to comply with the legislation, control of that breach and knowledge of that situation in order to comply with and control. What exactly do you oppose, to comply with the legislation? I know you're in breach of the law every day, you're in violation of it and you're in violation of it. And when they can't do it, change it or detour it. But voting against this proposal is an explicit recognition that you do not want to comply with the laws they promulgate. Because I repeat, once again, that there are three autonomous laws that force them to act if there is evidence of environmental damage. If we speak of the emptying of applause as you wish, as Mr. Feijóo said, in the case of the emptying of applause, three environmental Greek laws that have not been promulgated and approved by dangerous communists or Bolivarian agents, but by yourselves, that do not comply with them. Laws promoted and approved by the Galician Union, the Galician PP: the continental fisheries, the natural heritage and the environmental protection of Galicia. A fisheries regulation, which says -- I insist -- which literally says Article 83, which you are responsible for adopting and sending certain measures in the event of an indication or possibility of environmental damage. Not to mention the Law of Protection, Conservation and Improvement of the rivers of Galicia, of which we spoke earlier, which would be the fourth law, but which has no sanctioning regime. And you have hundreds of environmental agents who, among your professional skills, have the surveillance of river courses, including coronations. But in this case, since you want to talk about the emptying of cheers, they appeared there on August 20, i.e., they appeared by one of these cheers on August 20, which is the date that reflects the sanctioning files you speak of. Seventy days after the first communication. Yes, Mrs. Mouteira, this is in the sanctioning files, and if you don't bring the sanctioning file, or I'll bring it here and we'll read it both. Seventy days after Iberdrola's first communication and the Confederation. This shows disillusionment, passivity, disinterest, not of environmental agents, obviously, who do what they're told, but of whom they are directed, who is the environmental advisor, or rather the "green propaganda" advisor. And we don't stay in that episode, we intend to draw and draw conclusions from him and from the pollution cases that took place this summer, like all summers, to ask the Board to do something more important than remedy a specific chapter of the series of aggressions to our rivers and river ecosystems. We want the Union to comply with its laws and control such compliance and have information on the state of the rivers so that it can actually comply with our laws, because the Union does not comply with them or enforces them. That's the sad reality of the aggressions and the situation of our rivers, of our rivers, by the way. And also with regard to the amendment of the BNG, we are prepared to accept the first point of that amendment; not the second, because we believe that this is not a competition problem, but as Mr Bará himself said, a problem of incompetence of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u13	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of the management of the Greek cultural heritage
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u14	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The motion that we bring to this Parliament today is not exactly up to us, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, although we present it, but it is the work of the Heritage and Cultural Property Section of the Galician Culture Council, which, as we have already explained in the last plenary, has celebrated in recent times the Heritage and Society Forum. From that scientific event came the Practical Guide to an analysis of a key sector in the governance of a future, which collects the four ideas for which today we seek the consensus of the House. The group made up of dozens of cultural heritage specialists considers it necessary, just like us, the Socialist Group, to redefine the policy of managing our heritage. We want to stop manifest, that is yes, just as the Galaga Culture Council does in all its work, that this proposal comes here with a purely constructive character, to add efforts to a matter that we consider as a priority as to how much it talks about preserving and valuing our past but also our future. This Member, last Sunday, had the opportunity to attend the Auditorium of Galicia compostelán to represent the work N.E.V.E.R.M.O.R.E., of the Chevere company. A theatrical proposal that leads us to the year 2002, which was the year of the Prestige catastrophe, as you well know. That's exactly the thread of that play. And I assure you that, moreover, without the slightest intention, because it was not my intention to be at that moment thinking of my intervention today, but it is true that much of the saying in that theatrical account made me think of my intervention today. Because this work speaks of an evil management of an event that has led to also heritage, in this case natural heritage, but which has brought forward a heritage in an event or in a management that we should not repeat again. At the beginning of that function -- and that's why I bring the collation this question -- on the wall at the bottom of the stage are printed texts with very diverse sentences that speak of the Prestige, but that made me reflect. One said, "We are predators of our past." And another one explained that in 200 years we were able to end up with fossil resources accumulated on our planet over millions of years. Already at the end of the work, a sign that came down and remained in the center, while actors and actresses saluted, I remembered something very certain that said, "The future is not what will happen but what we're going to do." And they apologize for this uncomfortable parallelism, which I'm sure, in addition, that in the popular ranks you're not enjoying, and even think it's very exaggerated to make this parallelism between the Prestige catastrophe and the current cultural management, but it's certainly the saying that we can apply it to this of what we're talking about today. We cannot be predators of our historical and cultural past, nor can we overlook the artistic imprint of our heritage, which is nothing more than a witness to the history of our country, nor can we remain impatient with this matter. The cultural heritage, lords of the People's Party, and it goes for you because it's the one that supports the party of the Government, it must always be read in territorial keys. It's not possible to explain or interpret, or give it value without understanding the logic and social construction processes of the territory. Therefore, we can define the whole of our country as a heritage territory, Galicia is a heritage territory. The whole heritage, absolutely everything, is deeply rooted in our identity as a people and constitutes an individual and collective sense of belonging to a community that helps to maintain its social and territorial connection. We have said this on several occasions about the heritage issue: the cultural heritage of a people is the basic foundation of their identity; in other words, it is our collective memory. Just to make me understand, I read a very certain definition a few months ago about the meaning of heritage -- also came from a report by the Galician Council of Culture, on this occasion about a demolition report that you made about the situation of the village or the heritage set of Angueira de Castro, Faramello, Castro Lupario, and so on -- which said that heritage has value not only as an object, but as something linked to a community, since it is part of its identity references. It seems to us a very subtle definition. So that's why we bring him here today, because since the Socialist Group we have repeatedly insisted on the abandonment to which Galicia's heritage is subjected. Some criticisms that also share, I'm not saying much, I think I'm not mistaken if I say all the associations and collectives in defense of the heritage, which are also always unheard. The reality is that in the last decade, there have been no planning in heritage management. It is true that there is particular attention to the assets of the Church and the Way of Santiago, which receive most, by the way, of the budgets devoted to rehabilitation and heritage maintenance, without, except exceptions -- there are, in these budgets, the wall of Lugo -- if there are great advances in the conservation of our heritage, of our most significant heritage elements, clearly leaving other civil works of relevance or even intangible cultural elements. A matter not of little importance. And let's give examples: monumental policy without defined strategy has left desolate and in a ruinous state today peaceful, castles, buildings with historical and architectural value, especially in rural areas. There's no more to visit any of our municipalities, any rural area to see that, indeed, this is so. There are just, for example, initiatives to compromise purchases or encourage the conservation of private properties outside of certain tourist uses, by the way, of dubious social profitability. Support for the continuity of archaeological excavations and, above all, for their conservation, knowledge and social use is irrelevant in the budgets of the Union, in the planning of the Union year after year. The knowledge of ethnography, both material and immaterial, is limited to museum performances, mostly private, and we don't see the politics of the Union anywhere to support and increase that knowledge, or much less to give it social value. Also something very similar happens to the intangible heritage, generally preserved by private agents and with a very voluntary research and interpretation work, but obviously lacking support for this. We are, for example, thinking about traditional music, where it is certainly difficult to stop being a volunteer given the difficulty of living professionally. The question is that in a few years with budget exercises with the greatest funds of history, if the real concern about our heritage was a priority, we were in the best position to work on a joint project that had already laid the foundations of a specific strategy for this matter. That's what we want today with this motion: to put in place a new strategy for managing the cultural heritage in which the planning, protection, safeguarding and disseminating our heritage with a transversal policy. And this begins with the elaboration of an autonomous heritage plan in Galicia, with budget allocation, of course, for its development. We also believe appropriate -- as we say, the Galaga Culture Council Section -- the creation of a heritage observatory, with a section dedicated to heritage education. It is a priority that there is a sensitivity and social responsibility with respect to our heritage, which educates us on the importance of valuing our own, while at the same time involving us in that need. The Heritage Education Board program, framed in the Project Plan, is a very voluntary initiative, but, of course, it's not enough. As a third proposal, we add to the interest in creating an inter-administrative body of the Galician Union to coordinate the policy of regulation and comprehensive management of the Greek cultural heritage. The Culture Councillor said to this claim that there was already coordination between the various departments of the Union. But we're not talking about this, we're going over there and we're proposing an ad hoc organ. In recent times, mechanisms for the protection of heritage have been reduced, both with the Law of the Cultural Heritage of 2016, which has been approved without the support of this Socialist Group, and through the policy followed by the Union to continuously change that text through changes in other sectoral laws. Without going further, the past Administrative Simplification Act, we'll see this support for Galicia's economic reactivation, I've put another heap on the heritage, as it eliminates certain preceptive and short-term requirements, which seriously endangers that heritage. That is why an agreement is required between the different administrations and the agents involved in raising awareness of the importance of the conservation of the territory and its heritage. From there we propose and we agree to the request of the Galaga Council of Culture to create this body exclusively dedicated to the coordination of all policies on the territory, their acceptance, this much-needed and certainly non-existent transversality. The cross-section of the management of cultural heritage, ladies and gentlemen, is obliged, because it is of no use, if it is the case, that it is not, to have a magnificent Law of cultural heritage if the obligations in urban matters, landscape, agricultural policy or even forest do not accompany it. That's why having a superstructure that's able to reverse all the policies that affect the heritage would be a good thing. Finally, we also consider it necessary to create a heritage commission within Parliament, which aims to study and debate the heritage as a strategic and cross-cutting element of Galician cultural policy. It's about everyone being able to reflect on this issue, of course, always listening to expert voices. For all this, we think that the conservation of cultural heritage should not be understood only in physical or static terms. We think that's the way it's conceived from the German Government, because both its interpretation and its social valuation are dynamic, they're dynamic just like the territories where that heritage is settled. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Compasses Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u17	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Last September 2nd, the BNG Parliamentary Group registered in this Chamber a series of initiatives calling on the Government for specific political actions in relation to the protection of the management and dissemination of the Greek heritage. For our drafting we started from the comprehensive and rigorous conclusions of the Heritage and Society Forum, coordinated by the Heritage and Cultural Property Section of the Galician Culture Council, which were finally compiled and published in the Practical Guide for the Analysis of a Key Sector in the Governance of the Future. We qualify these conclusions -- as I say -- of rigorous and exhaustive, in view of the methodology based on intervention and in the choral participation around three work tables: one dedicated to the study of heritage, public policies and legal legislation; another -- the second -- focused on heritage management, conservation, protection, promotion and dissemination of cultural heritage, and a third focused on heritage, education, training and citizenship. A multi- and polyphonic debate process that led to some closing days of this forum, in which these main ideas were discussed extracted from the work of the different tables. We would like to thank the Council of Culture again for the invitation to bring these final days closer to the vision of the BNG regarding the management of the present cultural heritage policy, especially in the possibility of bringing those new juices that must open the way to the future. We also appreciate the possibility that we were given to learn in a feedback process between a wide and well diversified representation of participants. This Practical Guide to Analysis of a Key Sector in Future Governance is presented as an open document, as a basis for addressing the challenges of management, protection, conservation, research and placement in value of the Greek cultural heritage, material and intangible. An analysis that we understand deeply and in contrast, which deserves the full support of the BNG Parliamentary Group and whose conclusions we assume as a necessary political roadmap for the improvement of heritage management. We said "restrictive and comprehensive conclusions" and we reaffirmed that they still qualify as indispensable, in view of the fact that it is today the only systematic and proactive analysis document we know. Because never in twelve years has the People's Party been able to contrast in an open, plural and consensual manner the course of cultural heritage policy. The most obvious example we have in the adoption of the current Law on the Protection of Galician Cultural Heritage, Law 5/2016, which was passed in solitary exclusively with the votes of the People's Party, which is the same as saying that it has against the negative vote of all opposition. By the way, an inability for the dialogue and consensus of the current People's Party that is still growing much more if we are not aware that the previous law, Law 8/1995, of cultural heritage, was adopted by consensus, also governing the People's Party. As the saying goes, "Whether good he will make me." It was very rewarding to hear in the previous plenary counsellor, in response to the call made by the Socialist Group, announcing that he would take advantage of this moment to take stock of the management of heritage policy over the past five years. But the truth is that this balance has been reduced to a simple -- as is usual -- to enumeration of loose and inconceivable figures, and where, yes, the common point also comes to it again: the plans are always about to come from here forward; the criteria, the global targets on which they have been and are working continue to fall asleep in the country of the biosbards. Yes, it has already made clear to us -- as President Feijóo did in his intervention in the debate of the state of the nation -- that, no less or less, reigned the cathedral of Santiago de Compostela. With all due respect, Counsellor, who will surely see this intervention, and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what little way there is between self-love and sovereignty! [[Applause]] However, the government's dissimulation does not hide what you evaluate in this sense "habeles hainas". Already in 2018, the Greek Culture Diagnosis. Data for a cultural strategy in the 21st century provide evidence. Textually he says to Diagnosis: "There is no comprehensive or active policy, but more responsive (...) It has few resources and has no capacity to respond to the overwhelming vigil of the heritage reality of Greece (...) An interesting starting point for reviewing the heritage policy". Nor in that full was he able to evaluate the counsellor's own political legislation, which, by the way, "who has seen her and who sees her!"for every time you make those accelerated, urgent and annual legal changes in other areas, always the one that appears sacrificed as a common place is Galician Cultural Heritage Law. They're leaving it as stylized as useless to really act in the preservation and preservation of our heritage. However, it is true that we have a four-year evaluation -- between 2016 and 2020, prepared from the University of the Crown -- of the implementation of the current Cultural Heritage Act, adopted by the People's Party alone. Three very brief conclusions in this analysis: firstly, it determines the very scarce and insufficient development of this law, now five years after its adoption; secondly, it analyzes the difficulties of applying the protective standards of the new heritage categories, especially that it refers to cultural landscapes and intangible heritage, and thirdly, reference to the regulatory invasion of sectoral legislation affecting cultural heritage. Well, in view of all the data and evidence, we want to believe that at this point the Government of Greece knows well the conclusions of the Heritage and Society Forum, as well as the whole development of this, although it is true that we recognize that we have been made very significant their absence at the time of the presentation. In November 2019, the Secretary-General for Linguistic Policy, in his own act and then collected in the press release of the Office of the Council, indicated textually that "this forum, a forum like this, is necessary because in recent decades many changes have occurred in the Greek socio-economic reality, which must lead us to reflect on the management strategies we have in Galicia to update them if necessary." Well, we're grateful to know if they've already reflected on the government enough and, above all, if they have come to draw conclusions, or even more, and concretely and specifically, if they agree with these conclusions that this forum gives them: the need to develop an autonomous heritage plan of Galicia, to create a heritage observatory with a section dedicated to Heritage Education and to create an inter-administerial body for coordination. The support for this motion today, to which we have certainly joined in the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, will demonstrate that the Government shares the transversal force ideas derived from this Heritage and Society Forum as an essential basis for improving heritage management in Galicia. A highly deficient management that we are continually reporting at Commission 4th sessions, which is also insufficient space to give light to the entire chain of aims that we have to face in this terrible management of the Greek cultural heritage by the Union. Let me just remember how just referred to the last two cases of very recent dates. We have just demanded that the process of delimiting the path of the Winter Road and also demanding that the works of the Nafonso bridge be carefully paralysed, to prevent a new attack on the historical heritage. It is very insufficient the time for this intervention to report the continuing aggression of the cultural heritage that accompanies, for example, this wind fever that we are living in. We show it several times in this chamber, for example, in defense of the megalithic necropolis of the Cat Mountain, of the BIC of the Teodomiro Tower, of the penitents of Traba and Pasarela, of the Pena Mountain, etc. A global alert that has just made the Cultural Heritage Network public. A collective cultural heritage that is devalued in a fast-clearing amnesia of the Franchise Spoly. As we see, it continues to happen, for example, with Moraime's seedlings, used by Franco as mere maesters in Meirades, or with Cornide's house, still without fulfilling that obligation to open up to the public, once it has begun as BIC months ago. Or as another collective cultural heritage -- that we insist on this chamber again -- is contrary to the private will and denied to the knowledge of society, as is the Museum of Contemporary Art, Carlos Maside, of Sada, closed since 2016 and which is accused of a very important deterioration in both the content and the continent. [[Applause]] A policy turned from the back to the greatest symbol of the Greek identity cultural heritage, such as the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres, allowing from the Government to continue to keep it hermetically closed, depriving visitors of their access and knowledge from the beginning of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u19	... -- finished already, Mr. President -- a lack of general planning, which has already highlighted precisely the Icomos to justify the withdrawal of the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira the heritage of humanity. And yet in the plenary I mentioned, the councillor spoke and put this case precisely as an inter-administrative coordination model. It's better than copying another script. I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u20	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u21	Please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, continue to write the current history of the Greek cultural heritage with invisible ink and assume the transparent conclusions of the Heritage and Society Forum to change course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u22	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u23	You have the duty to end the state of permanent self-defense in which our cultural heritage is found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Ferro Iglesias has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u25	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Certainly, the times that are going on today are constantly changing, socio-economic events evolve at full speed, we are in the age of technology, and yet, at this time, the past has a fundamental and principal value in the personal and collective identity of people and societies. The past continues to have strength as an identity phenomenon, as a reference to what we have been, what we are and what we can become. That's why it has great value for heritage; a value that resides in what today's society represents, in its historical value as a resource to generate identity and prestige and strengthen the culture of our people. In any case, heritage can be appreciated from different perspectives by society and valued in different ways, but what is clear is that they all justify the conservation of heritage. Tools and instruments for heritage management must pay equal attention and interest to protection and conservation, with the primary objective of preventing the physical disappearance of property, or the safeguard, with the objective of registering and documenting, storing knowledge, facilitating appropriation, disseminating and returning to society, from a critical review that understands the custody of knowledge, its transmission, heritageization, appropriation by a human collective, dissemination and, above all, transmission to future generations. Cultural heritage must be present, as a basic concept that conditions, complements and enriches public and private actions, in all public and objective policies and private interests that have a territorial, social, cultural, educational and tourism condition, in order to promote the transversality of cultural heritage. There is an obligation on all public authorities to integrate the protection of cultural heritage into their sectoral policies. It requires them to pay due attention to the integration and safeguarding of heritage as a guiding concept in the development of sectoral policies. Like you, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government is aware of the enormous value, both material and immaterial, that it possesses our heritage, because it is a valuable heritage that configures our identity and, above all, of which we must build our future projection, connecting tradition with vanguard. But the reality you describe in this chamber is quite different from what people in Galicia find every day. Putting in value and protecting our cultural goods is, of course, always an unfinished job. For this reason, we take the conclusions given by the Galeg Culture Council in its Heritage and Society Forum with a constructive attitude to continue to advance in the position in value of Galicia's most comprehensive goods. I was perfectly aware that the People's Party was actively involved through this humble deputy. The German Government, and specifically the Council of Culture, Education and University, has great respect for the Galician Council of Culture and its work. We know of your great concern about the management of the heritage. That's why the Council counts on its work and advice. In recent years, the German Government has developed a clear and determined policy for the conservation and protection of heritage. We're intensifying our efforts in the value of heritage. Without going further, this same year, we reinforced this commitment -- as you know -- with an increase of 19% of the budget for the rehabilitation of the heritage, so we could perform more than ninety performances, some already completed and others in the execution phase, with a total investment of nearly seventeen million euros. We feel proud of our heritage wealth, and the figures speak for themselves. Galicia is a community that can boast of its numerical potential of movable and immovable property, scattered throughout the territory, and which function as powerful elements of social cohesion, fixing population and contributing to the development of our economy. This demonstrates the cross-section of the heritage. That's why we take our duty seriously with him, with his care, with his mime and with his protection. Anyone who listens to you, ladies and gentlemen, will think that the Greek Government has no policy in favour of heritage. As you know perfectly well, that's totally false and unfair. That's why we sometimes have to balance, not what will be done only, but what is already done. Over the past five years, EUR 50 million has been invested in seventy-fifty conservation actions since the Directorate-General for Heritage, which have benefited one hundred and seventy municipalities. Of them, two hundred and thirty improvements in churches, chapels, convents, hermits and monasteries, which are also heritage; four hundred interventions by the places that the Way of Santiago passes, through Tourism and the Agency Galaga de Infrastructuras; sixty works in goods declared heritage of humanity by UNESCO; two hundred initiatives in archaeological deposits; 100 performances in museums. Bromes aside too, they are perfectly aware of all the effort made in the cathedral of Santiago and the Cathedral Plan 2021-2027, which we present this summer. It will be 38 million to act in the protection of the great complexes of the Greek cathedrals towards the celebration of the next Xacobeo in 2027. In the Sacred Ribeira we are investing 34 million; we will end this plan in 2023. The countless investments in the cultural goods of our coastline, also through the Councillory of the Sea. In housings of historic helmets, assisted by the Environmental, Living and Soil Council. Even in the educational field when we act in educational centers located in historical and heritage buildings. A few days ago we presented the Bo Way project! for the cultural platform of Google. We're working on the Estelae project, working with the hands of Old Age and the Rectors Conference of the Universities of South-West Europeans, because we believe that Galicia is called to lead the digitization of the heritage and cultural legacy of the Jacobean Route in our macro-region of southern Europe. These are just a few examples of the work that has already been done; a job, of course, that is still unfinished, but it is a constant work, a work that makes us feel proud. The current legal framework has also helped us move forward in this line of guaranteeing cultural heritage. The law itself makes explicit the key role of the Council of Culture as the highest advisory body of the Galician Union. That's why I can assure you that the Council of Culture, Education and University is studying the conclusions of the Heritage and Society Forum, because they undoubtedly constitute an important work tool to continue to deepen the protection and safeguarding of cultural heritage. And as far as your motion is concerned, I want to tell you that parliamentary committees are an important instrument of work in our parliament. We have -- as you know -- the Fourth Committee on Culture and Education, and that's where the parties debate cultural heritage issues. Xunta is the competent authority in the field of cultural heritage, in accordance with the provisions of the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government. The Galeg Culture Council is the statutory body in an advisory and advisory capacity in cultural matters. The Council -- as you know -- calls for reports to the Council, scrupulously complying with the set by law, and so it takes the studies it prepares to improve decisions on heritage policy. It will have to reflect logically and slowly on the conclusions of the recently published Heritage and Society Forum. When making decisions and day-to-day management of cultural and heritage reality, many aspects must be taken into account. That's what the German Government does, and without being sovereign, I think with more success than you fail. Because this isn't a sprint, this is a background race. We, ladies and gentlemen, are no predators of the past, we take very seriously the care of the heritage. That's why we will continue to work for him, because he helps us to deepen our identity, and on it we must build our future project. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Iron. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Díaz Varela has the floor for the motion's group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u27	Thank you, President. Earlier, when I referred to the work of Chévere, N.E.V.E.R.M.O.R.E., I forgot to encourage everyone and all the present who are going to see the work, which is truly worth it, is magnificent. Mr. Iron, I don't know what instrument or tool you have to find out what the Greek people think in this particular field of heritage. Social fabric, society in general, for representation and visibility is usually organized into associations. The associative tissue is really at the end who is our reference to know those opinions. And it doesn't seem that these associations have a lot of credit for you, because the reality is that these associations are the ones that are usually the most critical of your management on this issue. Look, you're talking about budgets for year 2022. It is true that there has been an increase, not too notorious; the relative weight is not too much with respect to last year. If it's true that there's an increase but, of course, it's still very far from what existed, for example, in 2009. And, of course, the question is, there's no budget because there's no strategy. By the way, it's good that the counselor is going to play part in his speech; we'll have heard those figures, and the BNG spokesman also made allusion to those numbers. And in the end, that's the problem: managing the cultural heritage for you is a combination of figures, scattered actions that don't have and don't obey any strategy. Here we hear the Jacobo, the roads and the Jacobo. And I understand that, of course, you have to promote it and you will have to take care of it; but there is a lot of other heritage that you have absolutely abandoned. So let's say you're sick of a lack of strategy. He speaks of actions in the budgets, so to speak, for the wall of Lugo. All right, that action is the only one that probably, of what we know, let's not question. And I mention again the Sacred River Management Plan, those 34 million. I repeat here again: please give us the plan, which we've been asking for article 9, the so-called plan, that plan of the Sacred River, and we haven't had it yet. Then these are words that carry the wind, as often does this rule of Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] And I was also talking about, by the way, that you understood -- and that was also the law -- that the Council of Galician Culture is the highest advisory body. We know, and it should have been. It's true they're asking him for preceptive reports, but we want them to do something about it, too. Earlier in my previous intervention, I mentioned the case of the file of the heritage set of Angueira de Castro. Do something about it, please! And there was a lot more, but the question is that what we want with this one and what we think it also wants is the Gaga Culture Council Heritage Section, it's really that the cultural transmission chain is not broken, which goes unexorbably through the care of our heritage in the most global sense. This is probably the most important question we are talking about here today, because part of a conception of cultural heritage that, as I said before, encompasses everything that the world understands as material, especially with some spectacularness, but also something of immateriality, even less, which is what everyone understands, and it seems you too. But there is also a set of tangible and intangible elements that define us culturally and that is also heritage. And in our opinion, this is where you're wrong. You're wrong, and it's in this sense that cultural management policy is wrong, which is part of a very simplistic conception of our heritage. That's why the disillusionment situation that takes place with our heritage in Galicia doesn't have so much to do with the normative framework -- which also, but not so much -- or, of course, with the technical part developed by the workers and workers of the General Heritage Directorate, not so much as with political will. And this is what it's all about. By all this and above all, we, of course -- already to finish -- think it's time to take one more step and change the cultural heritage strategy in our country in a reflective manner but with due urgency too, taking as a basis what our staff expert warns you, in this case the Glaga Culture Council staff, who have no more courage than to preserve and value what we own proposes these four initiatives that -- obviously shared by our group -- we bring here today and would undoubtedly improve heritage management in Galicia. The truth is, it's a real shame for us that -- so I understand here -- they're not going to support this initiative; they say they're going to study it. BNG's own voicer used to talk about it. We don't know how much longer they have to keep thinking about this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u28	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u29	Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u30	We moved on to the next motion. motion by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández Gómez, on the performances to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to protected housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u31	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion, Mrs Fernández Gómez, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, speaks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u32	Thank you, President. There has never been so much housing and never so much difficulty to access it. This is the great paradox of our times before what the Government of the Union, which has competence in the area of housing and land management, has the duty to act. This reality, which breaks every common sense, has not always been so. Until the developmental stage, the construction of new housing basically responded to a logical demand; that is, it was built to meet the demand for housing. But since the 1960s, housing has become a financial asset above a consumer goods. From that point on, history has already been known to everyone: called to invest savings in real estate, linkage of the construction sector to economic development dynamics, urban planning that oversized real growth expectations and created the conditions of real estate boom possibilities, and, above all, the mantra of soil liberalization as the only measure to reduce the price of housing. A cocktail that resulted in an imbalance between real housing demand and the number of houses built. Between 2001 and 2010, the population of Galicia increased by 77,000; however, the housing increased by 303,000 new housing. This trend of higher housing growth than the population is continuing throughout the cycle from 1981 to 2019, which leaves a balance of 580,000 new dwellings built in Galicia, when the population fell in more than 100,000 people. I mean, for every person who lowered the German census, five new dwellings were built in our country. It is clear that what was cooked here is a sensetite, in which we built above our needs, but that the need for housing is today less covered than ever. Of course, young people have enormous problems in emancipating themselves, only 15% of our country's 16-29-year-olds can be emancipated. But how will these young people be emancipated with the rent prices we have? Today there are also 30,000 homes that spend more than thirty percent of the rent on rent, and these nearly ten thousand devote more than fifty percent of the income so they can have a roof. We have new forms of residential exclusion that we haven't seen until now, and housing income consumes an increasingly large part of wages. What should be the answers to this reality? According to the People's Party's theses, more housing building in the free market would mean that prices would be lower and that access to housing would be improved. Well it turns out that the model of free market and infinite construction has resulted in more real estate speculation, a price boom and a crisis of access to housing. His neoliberal theses make water all over the place. And either here or you recognize that your theses are failing and changing, or you should do an exercise of honesty and recognize that here the only thing they're interested in is looking for the highest profitability of real estate income at the expense and not considering the social prejudices that it can generate. We believe that the situation would have been quite different if we had a large public housing park. First, because it would ensure housing for people in a situation of economic precariousness or in a situation of greater vulnerability. Especially here I also want to remember young people, who can't be thinking more about how and in how many months you'll be able to pay than to start your vital projects. And secondly, because that public housing park, indirectly, would help to cool the prices of the free market, because when the percentage of public housing is high it can act as a counterweight of the free market. According to thesis of our group, more public housing is more access to housing. And in addition, it turns out that this is a model that many European countries share, where the percentage of public housing is around 20-30%. [[Applause]] Finally, this is a debate of models, of public housing park itself or not. And the stage of Feijóo is clear that it was a bet on the model of the no. It was terrible about housing. In these twelve years they have applied a brutal cut in budgets for housing programmes. The budgets of 2022 bring us the same recipe despite the social drama that is living in housing. And the proposal for this year 2022 on housing means a 46% cut in relation to the 2009 budget. [[Applause]] And this data measures the "no" of the People's Party. If it had maintained the rate of investment in housing that was before the People's Party entered, in these 12 years they would have invested €1.7 billion in housing programmes, €1.7 billion! We could be talking directly today about having a different model. If you hadn't changed your course, today it would be possible to talk about that in Galicia we had a real public housing park. Twelve years of the People's Party's Government have taken the opportunity for housing to be a first-needed asset guaranteed instead of what it is today: a good of difficult access for precarious people, which leads to social exclusion and the impossibility of emancipation for young people. A billion euros of cuts explain why shelter has not been created protected all these years and that the Housing Claimant Register has 15,000 registered persons. Now I'm asking for an exercise, they're counting: €1.7 billion invested in public housing would give to cover the demand of those 15,000 people who are currently registered waiting for housing. Twelve-year-old cuts are today's collapse in the plaintiff register, and 1,700 million less have stopped investing in the miserable 6 million euros announced in these budgets for the construction of public promotion housing. [[Applause]] If there were only 10 million last year, this year it's only 6 million for public promotion housing. How much public housing are you going to make across the country with only 6 million euros? And with the figures in the hand of what they cut down and what they plan to invest, it's so much better understood because they never give data from the built public housing. In the motion we bring them today, a part is focused on having the Government of the Union exercise transparency and data. How many dwellings were granted according to the type of protected housing and the property regime during the last housing plan? How many are expected to do in the new housing plan? Because you're rather ashamed of the data, so much so that our group's written questions on this subject don't even answer. Give me the data! Another of the proposals for this motion is -- as is obvious -- to increase budget shares aimed at expanding the public housing park and also improving the degree of execution, because it's very low. But in addition to transparency and investment, we have made proposals to address the specific situation we are currently facing. We have brought the proposal to draw up a specific plan defining how the situation of the collapse of the Housing Claimant Register will be answered. And this plan is understood to be incardinated on the following tracks: First, by defining concrete goals. It is necessary to establish a forecast of specific time-limits, to know what is the number of dwellings that are intended to adjudicate and provide for a reduction in waiting times because people spend years, years and years waiting for that public housing. Finally, make a concrete forecast. Secondly, a fairer distribution of resources. It is necessary to establish a new system for the care of protected housing and of additional aid to meet the criteria of need and vulnerability, so as to give priority to the provision of protected housing to persons or units of cohabitation who find themselves in a situation of risk and residential exclusion. And with special attention to those people who because of their vulnerability find it difficult to access housing in the free market. It's all the opposite of what you do, which is to prioritize shopping patterns and leave the most vulnerable people out. Thirdly, we also believe that a reformulation is necessary to take into account the complex social reality that we have today. This requires designing strategies for access and addiction to complementary protected housing but differentiated according to socio-economic profiles and territorial trends, always seeking a redistributive logic of territorial cohesion and reduction of land consumption. And fourthly, to address a change in the model of protected housing. It is necessary to change the course of what has been the protected housing up to now. The model of the future is to prioritize investment in increasing public housing in rent schemes and, in particular, through the acquisition of real estate. So the proposal we bring you here today is transparency, investment and strategy, because the paradox in which we are living so much and so many people unable to access it is only resolved by public intervention, with more weight than public housing and with more fair criteria that guarantee accessibility. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, I am practically sure that the People's Party will vote against because after twelve years of radical practice the opposite, of you sincerely little or nothing can be expected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u34	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. October 2021, there are things that from one, two, three, four years ago and so a decade back nothing has changed, whereas other things, other data, X-rays if they've changed to worse, for families, for youth basically, as we're going to debate. To talk about living through sessions, commissions this past decade in this parliament -- and unfortunately we have a turning point -- little by little has served in terms of reality, and if we look at the budget project for the 2022 we have on the table, we're still as pessimistic. Because we're seeing the figures that BNG's companion pointed out, and we're looking at some budgets in housing access programs that continue to decline, cut, which in total terms are still much below the investment in 2009. We continue, therefore, with policies that change nothing, despite -- as we said -- that if those figures get worse; we continue to denounce and assist in worrying budget levels of execution, which are a more evidence of that waste, and we continue to prioritize and place effort and emphasis on measures that do not meet the needs of the family or youth. And if these were to be the reactivation budgets, they would also have to be obviously about living matter, because if the difficulties and data were worrying before, now after the crisis caused by the cowardice, the problem has worsened. In fact, if anything shows that data from the Single Register of Housing Applicants, there's a situation of collapse in both the number and the unbearable times of waiting, 15,000 people. A collapse that, for example, if we take the city of Vigo, we have 5,600 applications. We're currently in the highest figure in the last decade. A figure that repeats, which is rising at many points in our territory, from which it does not take note of the Unity of Galicia, but which does not take note of any other data given to us by that Registrar of Claimants, that X-ray which he used to say. Of the 5,600 families, more than 70 percent of them are demanding is access to public housing for rent. An X-ray that -- we insist -- is a situation that repeats throughout the territory, but it seems that they either don't want to see it or they don't want to be heard in the council. It's not understood if the housing owner even yesterday, to talk about budgets when he comes in commission, sells or puts the accent as a star program in a program of access to the purchase of a first property. Welcome, but there's not even five million euros in the budget. And to put the accent as a star measure in a purchase access program having this data, having this reality and having this record, which tells us that more than seventy percent of the demand in our country is a rent, it doesn't make any sense at all. Fifteen thousand units of cohabitation representing some 50,000 Welsh and Welsh people who need access to a housing, of which -- as we say -- more than seventy percent is calculated that what they are demanding and requesting is lived in a rental scheme. Why don't they prioritize if they have that data? In addition to the numbers of this record we have here, there is also unanimity on the part of the experts, on the part of the ministry itself, in the fact that the housing rental protected at the attainable price must be the priority at this time in housing policies. You keep cutting that budget, prioritizing -- as we say -- buying about the rent. In addition, for all the reasons that they continue to fail to comply with the commitments that are approved year after year and brought to this parliament, so that once and for all they will push and increase this skirmishing public housing park. They don't answer those questions: what do they have for 2022? What do they have for 2023? Will they meet at this rate the deadlines for doubling commitments, doubling this public housing park? No, no, no, no. But this disillusionment on housing has consequences and figures -- we said we would crack them -- directly, especially for the young people in Greece. Youth unemployment data, coupled with work insecurity and this lack of accessible housing, leave around 300,000 young Greek girls and boys forced to continue living with their parents, their mothers, their families, because they cannot be emancipated. It's almost sixty-seven percent of the population in that age line. We've been in front of the highest data this year since there's records, according to the Survey, it's still home to the INE. We are -- Galicia, so much so that we assume -- the sixth autonomous community with the lowest rate of juvenile emancipation, only surpassed by Castile and León, Andalusia, Canary Islands, Castile-A Mancha and Murcia. That should be an indisputable priority issue to deal with, but neither in budgets nor in speeches -- because words are sometimes important -- it shows that there is some kind of interest or concern. Where do they put the accent and where do they go public resources from the Council? Where do they put the accent in the debate of the People's Party? They spend, for example, on reports lacking the slightest rigour, reports on their fingers, such as the one in charge of an ex-Deputy of the Castile-A-Mancha People's Party to sentence false arguments, which last week brought to the commission, to talk about housing, but to talk about here in Galicia the biggest problem we have to live in is that of occupation. [[Applause]] Last week this report was used -- I insist -- entrusted with public money to a former MP of the People's Party, saying in addition to the data of the Judiciary Council itself, to argue that there was a great social alarm here for the increase in cases of occupation. Instead of talking about this problem of housing, of the register, of the demands that exist, the board has been trying to put the alleged problem of occupation on the agenda for months. They spend time and money on finger reports, even though they know that these statistics put the problem down, as it's not only decreasing but it's absolutely residual. Obviously, for the 20th and 2nd persons who between April and June present in the courts a demand for a problem of occupation will be an important problem. But putting the focus there just answers -- as we say -- to the most argumentary argumentary on the right, actually infected by the ultra right. Galicia is in fact in the queue of communities in demand for occupation, we are the third with Euskadi with fewer demands per inhabitant. So let's ask how strict a counselor like the housing owner, given these figures, can talk about acute, alarming problem. They prefer to talk about this, to put fear in society, assuming that strategy we said on the right, rather than talking about the problem of access to housing. And in this part, finish and see if we don't have to talk about occupation again. The words of the president of the Galician Justice Court itself at the opening of the judicial year say that the alarm generated in recent months on the occupation of housing is based on a paradoxical situation, which is not supported by figures or reality. So we should stop wasting time with ghost reports and focus on really important, which is the problem that exists with access to housing. Instead of commissioning partial reports aimed at supporting this unrealistic and false, irresponsible posture, it would be better to look for the formula to expand that public real estate park. [[Applause]] Also turning the efforts into effective housing plans, not as the last plan, more focused on financing private promoters than on solving real problems. The fact that private public housing is more expensive than free market housing and that aid is also directed can only be understood if the purpose is to benefit the promoters and not the plaintiffs. It therefore demands that the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo manage with resources and in condition a juvenile emancipation service with a rental bag that promotes specific experiences. To end, in contrast, even today at the Council of Ministers, it is planned to adopt the first housing law of democracy. A rule that will establish, among other things, measures to alleviate so-called "volunteering areas" where there has been a continuous increase in the price of renters and when the cost of renting or mortgage and more costs exceed thirty percent of the average income of families in those areas. At many points in our territory, in this country, the effort that girls and boys would have to make in order to access a housing is above seventy percent. It is therefore the responsibility of all administrations to develop this pier of the welfare state, to make the right to housing a real right and not a mere matter of accessory that only defends with emphasis when it comes to making irresponsible, extremist and phalsical politics about this supposed threat of occupation. We are filled with a debate of budgets, we are therefore in time to start reversing the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Freire Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u36	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Fernández, you have built an account in which you have made statements which are not fit for reality to build your speech. Go back here with the snippets. There are no cuts in Galicia, Mrs. Fernández, or Mrs. Otero. Cuts are what the central government is doing with the rise in the price of light, the contributions of autonomouss by 20%, the fuels and also now they want to charge for the fees on the highways. [[Applause]] It has already been explained by asset and passively that the Housing Applicants' Register is subject to logical evolution with highs and lows of applicants; there is no collapse situation. This log includes protected housing claimants, and adjudicate persons cause low living expenses. However, they don't cause the perceptions of any other kind of help, such as renting aid, the social rent bonus or the provision of housing that doesn't qualify for protection. As you know, through this record, the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo assists all protected housing that is built or rehabilitated in Galicia, both new and rehabilitated housing, as well as all private promotion housing. In short, some of the people who are included in the Housing Claimant Registry are already receiving the attention of the Galician Board to have an adequate housing through public aid. The perception of these aids does not prevent them from continuing to register if desired. But to debate the concrete reality, you have to bring the collation the data, and the data cannot be twisted. The important thing is the data of families who receive help from the Galician Union to facilitate their access to housing in dignified conditions. Let's break some down: Since the 2010 registration reform, Junta has assisted more than three thousand and five hundred public promotion homes. In the period 2015-2020, corresponding to the RehaVita Plan, 17,533 grants were granted for the payment of rent, amounting to more than thirty-four million euros -- these people do not cause low registration -- renting aid in the Housing Plan, renting aid for affected by the housing-19, social rent bonus and social lease bonus for victims of gender violence. The Union has a public housing park for rent with 3,700 homes, which increase with each new promotion. It's collated with the municipalities in the creation of a municipal public park, 172 municipal homes rehabilitated by an amount of €6.3 million. The Infrared Improvement Program, thanks to which a total of 117 homes were rehabilitated. And on the other hand, the lines for the acquisition of housing, which are aids for those under 35 years of age to buy housing in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, help for the purchase of housing in historic centers, help for the acquisition of protected housing. Housing policy is and has to be transversal. Together it has a complete planning of its housing policy, a model tailored to Galicia's real needs and focused on an objective: to support the Greek families in achieving a decent housing, developing new or rehabilitated public promotion housing programs, collaborating with the municipalities in the creation of a municipal public park. It has lines of rental help, line of help for the acquisition of housing and, of course, to care for the people who need it most. A wide fan that allows you to develop a policy that is at the foot of the street in response to people's demands and needs. Mrs. Fernández, are you against the help of the rent? are you against the help of young men and young women in Greece for the purchase of their first home? And another question: why did the PSOE and BNG Bipartite in Together eliminate programs like the youth mortgage or the rental bag without even enabling alternatives? Ladies and gentlemen, RehaVita Plan 2015-2020 was the first specific housing plan for Galicia formulated by the Government of the People's Party, and today the Social Pact is in force for housing 2021-2025, diagnosis, analysis and proposal for resolution with concrete measures and proposals and with a focus on continuous improvement and accountability. They should account for other governments also involved in housing policy. I should report on the government of the PSOE de Vigo, on the obstacles to the urbanization of San Paio de Navia and the construction of 1,609 shelters protected in the city. What can we tell people registered as housing claimants in Vigo? I should also report to the BNG government in Pontevedra. A headline: Junta hopes that the Pontevedra Town Hall will facilitate the transfer of plots to initiate the construction of public promotion housing in the city. And one fact: at the two-party government stage, not a single public promotion housing was built in Pontevedra. By the way, the county of Ferrol is also waiting for licenses for the Rexurbe area. Sorry! Unfortunate and irresponsible that out of pure partisan interest, they get caught up in the joint ventures. Sad and irresponsible because what they're doing is harming the whole set of Galicians and Greeks. [[Applause]] But I'm going to give you another example, another example of reality. Do you know what was the housing policy of his extinct friends, the Atlantic Sea, in the city of Coruña? More than 200 desperate families waiting to enter their homes. The reason: the unjustified delays, years and years, in the first occupation licenses of the housing cooperatives protected in the Olympic Park, today in the neighborhood of Xuxán. This was a failure, gentlemen. The housing policy of the Galician Union is another: working to ensure that all Greeks have a decent housing at affordable prices, building the public housing and also betting on rehabilitating the building to put it in value and to make it easier for families to access a housing. Various help programs, whether they're for rent or for sale, with more opportunities for young Greeks to access their first home. Plan RehaVita has given its fruit, the data are there, and the social pact for housing today alive will bear its fruit. A pact led by the Government of Galicia and which comes from the consensus and involvement of all affected parties, in which all sectors are represented through the Observatory of the Housing of Galicia, from promoters, builders, cooperatives, Fegamp, architects, technical architects and, of course, consumers and users. Yesterday, the Environmental, Territorial and Housing Adviser reported on Commission 3rd of the board's budgets for the next year 2022. The budget for 2022 of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo amounts to more than EUR 123.5 million, which means an increase of 27.5 million over the past year; 28.6 % increase. A budget that demonstrates once again the commitment of the council and the Government of Greece to housing. The budget to continue supporting families who need it most, the budget to promote the emancipation of young people under 35 years of age, the budget to give a definitive impetus to housing rehabilitation and the public housing budget. Ten million euros for the Olympic Park of the Coruña, Xuxán district, for the urbanization of land, 80 new dwellings. Eight million euros for the urbanization of San Paio de Navia, if the Vigo Town Hall ceases to set obstacles, which will allow the provision of 1,600 new dwellings. Some 6.5 million euros for the city of Santiago, where the Galician Union will build 24 dwellings in Castineiriño and 36 in Lamas de Abade, 60 new dwellings in Santiago. This is the roadmap to follow the guidelines included in the social pact for the housing agreed with all the agents involved. And he'll realize it. To the Bipartite, PSOE and BNG of the Board, the Greeks have already made an account. Do you remember that famous decree of the Habitat Standards? Legislation massively rejected by all professionals in the sector, challenged by the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and that the Government of Beijóo had to change when you lost the confidence of the people of Greece, when you lost the elections. Mrs. Otero was also talking about the subject of occupation. Look, Mrs. Otero: we defend the right to housing and the obligation of administrations to promote their access, but we also defend the right to property and to fight against occupation. Last week, you actually voted against the Spanish Government's approach to a legislative reform against the occupation of housing -- against the PSOE and the BNG Members, together -- claiming that there was no problem of occupation, which was an invention of the PP. I'm from the Coruña and I'm also from the May district, do you think that more than six hundred neighbors and neighbors of the May would go out to the street today if it weren't because there's a serious problem of occupation in the Coruña city? Would you think that? [[Applause]] On two occasions, Mrs. Otero, on two occasions we had to go out into the street. Officially, according to local police data, five complaints are filed in Coruña each month for the appropriation of a house; of the total usurpation almost half occurs in this neighborhood and in the Holy Family. It's estimated that there are about a hundred homes affected in the city. We'll also see what brings that new Housing Law. I'm telling you, just like the Habitat Standards. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Freire Vázquez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u38	Thank you, President. Mrs. Freire, a lot of talk about occupation, but she forgot to talk about the subject: protected, zero housing. [[Applause]] And the People's Party is the group that is absolutely alien to the reality that is living in housing, which in the last lustro the housing price in rent increased to thirty percent. The EAPN report speaks of a worrying deterioration in the effects of the difficulties of access to a decent housing. It specifically mentions that in Galicia the delay in the payment of principal housing costs increased by 3,4 % in 2008 to 8,5 % in 2020. This is the balance of the People's Party's Government: it's multiplied by more than twice the number of people who have problems paying for housing. These are not just figures, they're the everyday life of people who have to choose between paying housing and eating and meeting basic needs. It means to stop caring for the most basic things. For thousands of families, all this means a eviction. There are thousands of families in Galicia who have suffered eviction because they can't afford to pay the rent. And many have not come to that situation because they have a network of solidarity between family and friends that resolve the problem on time. All we have in this country is working people helping working people when they can't find a home. What we have is young people counting months to return to their parents' homes, how many months they'll be able to keep paying the floor. [[Applause]] And in the meantime the People's Party cut €1.7 billion into housing programmes, €1.7 billion! [[Applause]] I made the bills yesterday to the Counsellor, but I repeat them here again. There is a difference of EUR 98 million between the 2009 budget housing programmes and the 2022 housing programmes. But not only do we have one-half cut between 2009 and 2022, but in the middle of the legislation of this long legislation, this long black stage of the People's Party, there were periods when housing programs were absolutely cut. And that adds up to a total cut of 1,700 million euros. How can you get the People's Party chest out of the help model, please! if you give in total two thousand tips by adding up all the lines -- the general line, the line for young people -- that reach about three hundred people? How can the People's Party draw the breast of two thousand helpers when there's fifteen thousand people waiting in the plaintiff's register? [[Applause]] How can they draw from aid from a social rent bonus for people who suffer a eviction that forces them to pass through the execution of the eviction, who does not have preventive measures? How can you suck the board of a bond that only reaches seven hundred people when there were twice as many evictions in this country? You know why it doesn't reach everyone? Because that program is a failure, because it helps 200 euros and they say, "Search for life." What about a person who doesn't have a contract when he gets to look for a flat? Well, don't let them rent it. And that's the problem, that Joine doesn't give you any kind of alternative. It's an absolutely failed program. We have an investment problem and we have a strategy problem as well as the protected housing. And given what is the situation of access to housing and what is the situation of the Welsh real estate park, there are three major problems as to the protected housing model and three major debates that will be given: First, whether the protected housing should be a new or unused housing. As I said in the first intervention, we built more housing than the real need demanded, so that the priority model has to be the purchase of homeless housing and not so much the new construction. Secondly, is the debate: public housing or private promotion housing? Because, of course, you've classified the protected housing that can lead to confusion to many people, because within the generic protected housing denomination is, on the one hand, public promotion and, on the other hand, self-promoting private promotion. So we have within the same protected housing umbrellas a development that would give you absolutely different models. We believe that the model based on the housing of self-protection, as it has been done so far, in the purchasing regime has great problems, because what it does is that once it has spent the time that that housing has been protected and passes to the free market recovers market prices and the public administration has made an investment that soon remains with empty hands. That's why we have to change the model and bet on the protected housing of public promotion in rent schemes, because it's a structural investment, which serves to make today's investment also the public housing park tomorrow. And the last debate is also whether the model is rent or buy. Just like the previous case, the promotion of public housing in rent means that this remains in property and in public hands, and the purchase means bread for today, hungry for tomorrow. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the purchasing regime model excludes people who do not have the capacity for savings or debt, who are the people who most need public administration to ensure that their right of access to housing is guaranteed. Thus, housing protected with a model of public housing in rent scheme and which preferably incorporates through acquisition of housing in use. You gentlemen of the People's Party are neither expected nor expected in the debate on housing; they are the opposition to the creation of public housing. You wanted to know if we were in favor of a model of help. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if Mrs. Freire makes an explicit acknowledgement that you renounce the protected housing model and bet just for giving me little help, which is what they've been doing at the bottom all these years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u40	Their cuts -- I'm done -- they've already cost us the power to have multiplied in these twelve years for five the current public housing park. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And every year they're still in government is a lost year for a change that guarantees access to housing and the possibility of emancipation for the younger generation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u41	Thank you very much. Once the debate on motions is over, we begin the votes. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u42	First of all, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Arangüena. There is an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, of which only the first point is accepted. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia for the defence of Galician river ecosystems. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u43	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Susana Díaz Varela. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the actions to be carried out by the Italian Government in the field of the management of the Greek cultural heritage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. The motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u44	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Alexandra Fernández. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández Gómez, on the performances that must take place in Galicia in connection with the protected housing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u45	I am going to read them an institutional statement that brings me to the groups and says: "In view of the claims contained in a judicial resolution of the First Instance Court of Marbella, in which it is called "deep Galicia" a Galician village and limits itself to the happiness and integral development of a person to live in it, the Galician Parliament expresses the following considerations: First. It is not up to this chamber to rule on the substance of the matter, which should in any case prioritize the best interests of the child. Second. To manifest our deepest rejection of the use of the expression "deep Galicia" towards any village, parish, village, district or city of Galicia. This qualification implies a pesorative and unwarrantedly negative assessment of the country, which is unacceptable in any context, even more in a judicial resolution. Third. Such assertions show a deep ignorance of the reality of Galicia and the people of Greece, showing enormous prejudices and stereotypes that nothing has to do with this country, in which all conditions compete for a full and comprehensive development of people. It is surprising and refuseable that these stereotypes still touch echo as they do in the present case. Fourth. Any village, town or city in Galicia is suitable for the development of a child or child. For this reason, the political forces represented in the Galician Parliament want to reaffirm our pride as Greeks and Greeks. And so we express it with this institutional statement, which is also an act of collective dignity." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We continue with the agenda, with the second point, non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the request of the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain for a defence, before the European Union and the World Trade Organisation, to halt the proposal to prohibit certain fishing subsidies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u46	You have the word Mrs. Teresa Egerique Mosquera. There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of her colleague Patricia Otero Rodríguez, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the motion for a resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1st. To continue to publicly express its rejection of the proposal on the elimination of fuel subsidies to fisheries.2° To address the Government of Spain to continue to demand a closed defence before the EU and the WTO to halt the proposal to prohibit subsidies for purchase or to cover the costs of fuel in fishing, whose objective is to defend the overall equality of fishing and competitiveness and sustainability of our fleet."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u47	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u48	Good morning. Thank you, President. This initiative we are bringing here today was discussed in committee on 7 September, but we have brought it back for several reasons: for the disturbing demonstrations and actions on this issue by the Greens in Europe, a group in which the Galician Nationalist Block is integrated; for the changes of position and fear of the Government of Spain in this matter, and for the imminent debate that will take place on this subject at the XII Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization from 30 November to 3 December in Geneva. And I'll go point-by-point: First, following the PNC debate in committee on 7 September, we know the letter sent by the spokesperson of the Green Group of the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries, Grace O'Sullivan, the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Frank Zimmermann, and the European Environment Commissioner, Oceans and Fisheries, Virginiajus Sinkevičius. The letter had the following subject: "World Trade Organization negotiations on harmful fisheries and the maritime sector". And I read this letter in its fundamental part, which reads as follows: "In the fisheries sector, fuel subsidies and tax exemptions have long been recognized as harmful subsidies that lead to artificial increase in fishing capacity and create more pressure on already overexploited populations. However, a recent report found that each year the European Union fishing industry benefits up to EUR 1.5 billion in tax exemptions and subsidies, and the most destructive sectors benefit. "As Commissioners responsible for fulfilling the promises of the Green Agreement of the European Union, we, the Members below, ask them to recognise the impact of tax exemptions on fossil fuels and harmful subsidies, and to push for an ambitious agreement in WTO negotiations to phase out these subsidies gradually with specific deadlines." I ask myself, "I agree ambitiously," for whom? Because, of course, for the fishing sector in no way. The Greens are precisely -- as I said -- the parliamentary group where the Galician Nationalist Block is integrated into Europe, although it often denies it in the committee itself, and it's not true, there is an alliance and there is included the Galician Nationalist Block. The spokesperson for the Green Group in the Committee on Fisheries in the European Parliament is collecting signatures with this letter that I have just read to request the end of the diesel subsidies for the fisheries sector, so we want to denounce this environmental extremism. We know the importance of environmental care, but we want to denounce that environmental extremism of the members of the Block on this issue, in prejudice to the interests of the Greek fishing sector. When we presented this CNP in the commission, we had not denied the Spanish Government the news of the end of August, which indicated that Brussels was increasing pressure on the fleet and claimed to put an end to the subsidised gas oil, especially the part in which Spain was in line with the European Union. We approved the GNP, by the way, with the vote in favour of the Galician Nationalist Block, to whom I call for some coherence. We appreciate the support, but then we have to be consistent where the decisions are made and where we will finally decide whether this is going to be a reality or not. On 28 September, the Director General of Fisheries and Aquaculture Management of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Ignacio Gandarias, in statements in Vigo, in his speech at the International Arvi Conference on the Future of Fisheries, "European Fisheries at Level Playing Field", gave a start and stated that Spain's position within the negotiation on the abolition of fishing subsidies is to follow tax exemptions to fuel in fishing. He said there in front of the shipowners and the people affected -- that they have already publicly manifested themselves, by the way -- : "You must continue as you are. The WTO may have an impact on the price of diesel, but the tax matter must be left out. Aid included in the Maritime Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture, Fempa, does not encourage overfishing or overcapacity. And with regard to the Fit55 proposal, which imposes a minimum tax on fishing diesel, Spain will defend these exemptions by justifying the negative impact that this burden will have on the fishing sector." A phrase that sounds phenomenal and that was really what Arvi wanted to hear, because they were demanding, and so far they had no answer that would give them an answer to the positive tie on this matter. So the Government of Spain so far had no pronouncement in favour of the fishing sector itself and against banning those bonuses. At the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries held in Luxembourg on 11 and 12 October 2021, on which the Minister Planas participated, he was not on the agenda, neither in the fisheries part nor in aquaculture part, to discuss the subject of the proposal to prohibit subsidies for fuels in the fisheries sector. We want to think that it is also something that is approved in this parliament and that comes there to the ministry, because it can have a certain impact, because it was quickly put on the agenda on the agricultural side the Objective 55 package of measures, legislative initiatives to allow the update of the updated climate target by 2030. So, the Minister Planas, -- and I repeat: in agriculture, not in fishing -- in the Council of Ministers, he put a point on this subject, but then in the press release or in the public statements he didn't express himself for anything against the end of these bonuses. I think you don't want to upset the European Commission, or you don't want to upset Minister Teresa Rivera himself, or the Environment team, or that team that have work, that don't understand each other, between PSOE and Podemos. Therefore, we should be able to put it right in front of those who are affected, because if there are phrases that are the ones who want to hear, but then there are no clear convictions that what is being requested from here and what we approve of in the committee will be supported. In the face of the latest bandages and changes of opinion of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, without a firm stance -- I insist: this is what we ask for, a firm stance -- you question the firm position of the Council of Galicia. And by May we have news, we have hemerotheque. On May 19, 2021, Mar's advisor said, "It will back the fleet. Galicia rejects the widespread elimination of the propagated fuel. Rosa Quintana has been totally opposed to the elimination of fuel bonus," we read on a European Press teletype, also 19/5/2021. So from Galicia there is a firm stand against that elimination. But in the face of the last loopholes -- as I say --, without firm stance of the Government of Spain, how should it be that of a Government that defends the interests of the country and defends the interests of the fishing sector, and after the statements of the Director General of Fisheries Management, because we have to say that we are pleased that the Government has made those statements at that time, that it defends the maintenance of the status quo to avoid a situation and that remains at a disadvantage with the Spanish fleet. But this must be expressed there in Brussels, and it must also be reflected in different options, in different agreements reached at the Council of Ministers in Spain too, without interference with other ministries, such as the Ministry of Ecological Transition or the Ministry of the Environment itself. In an unfair way, besides, it would be the disadvantage of the Welsh and Spanish fleet, because we know that this is thought -- we want to think that it's placed on the table -- for fleets like Chinese or other Asian countries, that fish aggressively, that nothing has to do with what we do here in Galicia, what the Greek ships do. And all the information that has been on this matter since September has increased the concern on this subject. I would also like to extract part of the communiqué from the October 19th plenary session of the European Parliament regarding the European Parliament's position at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which will take place in Glasgow from October 31st to November 12th, because it is also worrying, and says: "The Union must maintain its leadership in the fight against climate change, and undertakes to work to ensure that the climate package Objective 55 by 2030 is in line with the Paris agreement. In order to accelerate the fight against climate change, the European Parliament urges the Union to replace the ten-year plan in force with a five-year strategy...". I mean, they're already shortening the deadlines. And in that time, all direct and indirect subsidies to fossil fuels "must be phased out in the European Union", the Members of the European Parliament, who also encourage other countries to do the same. We therefore believe that it is more than justifiable that this plenary today is taking place on this subject: the treatment of this initiative and the need to support the Greek fleet in this step, which can further put that fair deal between all the world's fleets. It is all contrary to that level of play field that we long for and that we talk about in the Committee on Fisheries and from all political groups. I just wanted to read an excerpt from the Vigo Shipowners' Cooperative, which put forward the following -- and they are concerned -- by making a good reflection, which we should all do: "Knowledge of the reality of climate change and aware of the need to arbitrate measures that contribute energetically to combat it, before adopting some, it is essential that deep studies of analysis and assessment of the impact of the application of such restructuring, especially non-direct results that of the measures might become, that, in some cases, such as what it occupies, will lead to a radically worse scenario than the current one, taking into account, moreover, that the marine protein obtained from fishing is very different from the least carbon footprint generated, and therefore it can help to consolidate the supply of environmentally more sustainable food." That is, given all these factors, we need to know what the Welsh fleet is doing and what the fishing sector is doing -- in Galicia we know it well -- is really contributing to the slow change in climate and sustainable for them and for fishing. So, in particular, it refers to the forecast to impose a tax on fishery oil of around 14 euros per 100 litres of fuel from 2023. I think it's an important issue. Although we have already discussed it in the Commission, I think it is essential that we turn it to the plenary and that all Members should be able to vote on this issue, because the position is clear: to be in favour of the fishing sector or to drown and go against the fishing sector with a totally radical environmental issue that is not in line with the way we live here in Galicia. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u50	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The truth is, when I got myself to prepare the speeches of this plenary, I had to look again at the agenda and see if I was not mistaken and I was preparing a fishing commission, because it is true that recently, in September this year, this matter was dealt with in the Committee on Fisheries at an initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group, and it is the same initiative and it has the same decisive part today that they bring back to this plenary. And I want to remember that initiative was adopted unanimously. So I didn't fully understand what the objective was for them to bring back the same initiative today. But after hearing Mrs. Egerique, I was very clear: they wanted to take advantage of a non-law proposition, the same bill that was passed just over a month ago. For what? To attack both the Galician Nationalist Block and the PSdeG, arguing and completely missing the reality that either of the two groups had changed their position. As far as we are concerned, concerning the Central Government and the Socialist Party, Mrs. Egerique, there was no bandage, there was no change in course, and you failed entirely to the truth when I was saying that at that conference the Director General of Fisheries Management of the Ministry before Arvi had not made a determined bet on the part of the Central Government, standing again against the elimination of aid to the cost of fuel in fishing, because it is not true. The Director General for Fisheries Management of the Ministry has expressed precisely this opposition from the Ministry to the elimination of these subsidies. In addition, Mrs Egerique, you recognized this in the Committee on Fisheries last September: it was Spain, Mr Planas, the Spanish Minister of Fisheries -- if you do not remember -- which at the meeting of European Union fisheries ministers in May 2021 has focused on and worked to put on the agenda of that European Fisheries Council which would be the European Commission's position on the elimination of fuel cost aids in fishing. So, how is nothing being done by the central government? The Minister of Fisheries, at the meeting of the European Union's Committee of Fisheries Ministers, wanted to take the position of the European Commission. It is true that more countries joined together later, but the proposal was combined from Spain and France. And then, of course, you even fail to tell the truth by saying what happened at that sector meeting where Arvi was present. It's true the concern that causes in the sector the elimination of cost subsidies to the purchase of fuel, but in that we also coincided with all groups, and so does the PSdEG. And also in July this same year, we have a question to the Committee on Fisheries to ask the Greek Government what actions it carried out in the face of this threat from the World Trade Organization of the European Union to eliminate these subsidies. In their response they shared the concern of this group, of course also the concern of the sector, but what I did, as always, the Greek Government, was to throw balloons out and find a lack of action by the central government, which, as I said, and you know, is not true, because the central government is proactive on this subject. [[Applause]] This group urged the Government of Greece to go into the hands of the Government of Spain in order to be able to defend the interests of our fleet, because we will not tire of saying from this group that our fishing is carrying out a legal activity, declared and regulated, because we cannot overlook that the European Union -- and therefore Spain; and, therefore, Galicia -- are related to fisheries sustainability, with such important instruments as the maximum sustainable yield, or by placing strict conditions in the use of European funds, from the FEMP fund; which, of course, Galicia in the middle of this year still had 154 of the 371 funds allocated. Only if 117 were executed and in 2023 must be executed, if not, we all know the risk of returning them. [[Applause]] In addition, in Spain and Galicia we are leaders in the fight against illegal fishing, against unreported and against unregulated fishing. That is why it is essential to focus on the requirements that meet our fisheries, because the World Trade Organization, made up of 164 countries and the European Union, aims to prohibit subsidies that harm the sustainability of fisheries resources, in order to improve the benefit of all and the long-term sustainability of marine fisheries. It is therefore also essential that Europe recognises the three pillars of our fishing: the environment, social and economic. negotiators therefore have the task of reaching an agreement on disciplines which eliminates subsidies to illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and prohibits certain forms of subsidy that contribute to overcapacity and overfishing, being treated with special and differentiated part of the negotiations. While it is true that FAO already said that in 1970 overfishing affected 10 % of fish stocks and that in 2017 this proportion had already increased to 34 %, with most of the remaining population under overfishing threat, this cannot be attributed to it or can be said to be the fault of our fleet, which, I repeat, makes environmentally sustainable fishing by speaking. The threat of the World Trade Organization to eliminate these aid to the purchase of gas oil in fishing, as we all know, is nothing new, it's a negotiation that started 20 years ago, but the fact is that I now urge to have finished and have an agreement at the end of this year 2021. We know that the first 15 years of negotiations have not been successful, especially with great disagreement about the tax advantages of marine gas oil. If we know that this is a proposal, we already know that these create a trend and what may happen. In the face of the risk, the Government of Spain has on many occasions reaffirmed support for the maintenance of sustainable fishing activity, and is defending the maintenance of tax exemptions to gas oil in fishing. They add that it is necessary to preserve the existing tax treatment for fishery gas oil, especially when it comes to tax exemptions in this matter; something which, as Mrs Egerique said, if these subsidies were to be passed and eliminated, would imply that the price of gas oil for our fleet had doubled, putting at grave risk the viability of many companies. Besides, this would also imply what they tell us from all organizations: that this could even increase the cost of the price of the fish, and we all know how beneficial the consumption of this product is in our diet. Therefore, the Minister of Fisheries, of course, made statements in all areas saying that this was a worrying situation. It is very worrying to question tax exemptions for gas oil, and that is why, as Mrs Egerique said before, it was the Minister of Fisheries himself who put this situation on the table in the Council of Ministers of the European Union of May. This proposal by Spain, together with France, was added to Ireland, Malta, Cyprus, Croatia, Italy, Poland, Greece and Belgium. It is therefore not true, Mrs Egerique, that the Central Government, and in particular the Ministry of Fisheries, are not working to try to reverse this threat. It is true, and it was also said by Mrs Egerique, that the Board has also publicly shown rejection for this elimination, but it is necessary to continue to focus on this: each administration within its sphere of competence, because we cannot overlook that the European Committee of the Regions itself, in which the Government of Greece is represented, since it is made up of local and regional entities, has also voted in favour of the elimination of aid. But let's not miss the truth, let's say that both a Government, the Government of Greece, as well as the Central Government, are working to reverse this situation, and in that sense our amendment goes, so that both the Union and the Central Government continue, not only by making public demonstrations, which are also good for the issue not to be forgotten, but also, of course, to continue with actions, it is necessary that both the Council of Galicia within its competences and the Government of Wales continue to carry out all the necessary actions to ensure that the World Trade Organization and the European Union rectify its proposals, because, of course, eliminating these aid at the cost of the gas oil in the fishery would undergo a tremendous slaughter for our fishing industry, when, moreover, it is a sector that makes a lawful, regulated fishing, and, as we say on so many occasions, environmentally sustainable, speaking. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] By the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. González Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Well, the BNG passed us a little like the Socialist Party's comrades, we didn't understand very well why I came to bring this initiative that had already been approved in the Commission, but it was clear to Mrs. Egerique: I came to beat. But, look, Mrs. Egerique, as much as one repeats a lie, it doesn't really become; it's a very soft but real phrase as life itself. And there's a reality that knows the whole sector, and it's that the voice of the Welsh fishing fleet in Europe is the voice of Ana Miranda, the Euro MP of the Galician Nationalist Block. And you and the sector know that. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, and we just have to visit the ports and the shores of our country and talk to the sailors to appreciate their goat and their discouragement in the fisheries policies that continually harm our fleet. This measure aimed at achieving the World Trade Organization may be the definitive death of the Welsh fishing. The WTO has been negotiating a proposal for the withdrawal of certain fisheries subsidies -- as they were saying -- among them are the gas oil or fleet modernization bonus. The argument behind many parts of the WTO is that, without other considerations, they are harmful subsidies to encourage overfishing. And "coffee for all" again harms Galicia, because the community fleet -- and therefore the Galician -- is one of the most controlled in the world; and in particular, in the case of Greek, a sustainable fishing example that has been contributing for years to a sustainable management of marine resources. The intention of the WTO is to change the rules currently governing the aid received by the fisheries sector to control fishing. Well, Galicia's already in control of fishing. There are quotas, TACs, veils, minimum sizes -- and we could follow -- that make us have a sustainable fishing example. On the other hand, as the Commission itself acknowledges, this measure mainly harms the fleet of bass, since, in the case of large vessels, it would increase the refuelling of high-sea fuel in high-sea fishing, which would increase the risks to the marine environment by the possible greenery, and, in the case of the fleet of bass, this is not possible. Once again, the lack of knowledge of the reality of the Galician fleet in the European Union is highlighted. In Galicia the fleet of bass and coastline is most of our fishing fleet. Nine out of every ten ships in the Galician fleet are of minor arts. About 3,400 of the 3,800 ships we have in the country would be killed by these measures, and as a result, it would affect the whole of the Greek economy. The ban on subsidies to fishing diesel would triple the costs to the boats in that concept, which would be the ruin of many small artisan shipowners. The European Union does not clarify its position with reference to this measure. At the WTO meeting on 15 July, he was against the ban on subsidies, but in mid-August, the Trade Commissioner advocated putting an end to subsidies for fossil fuels. On the one hand, the Commission considers that the European Union's fishing industry is less profitable on the continent, given its size and scarcity of quotas, and on the other hand, the European Ecological Pact is based on its position on overfishing, providing for the taxation of fuel used in fishing. Clearly, Europe -- and specifically Galicia -- is not the problem, but the Galician fleet will suffer as a result of a brutal way; we are at risk that most of our country's low-income fleet will disappear. Well, here's the picture. The Spanish State is not able to lead the defence of the state's fishing sector, it has delegated its representation in the European Union to the WTO. In these negotiations, Spain has neither a handle nor a cut. The loss of State sovereignty towards Europe is a further evidence of lack of interest in fishing in Madrid. Of course, as the BNG has said in this Parliament and outside it on repeated occasions, a suitable maritime and sea fishing policy can hardly be developed at 600 kilometres away. Galicia is a highly fishing-dependent country and, as such, has to have direct negotiating capacity in the European Union. Because of this and because of the singularity of his fleet of casualties, we cannot continue to depend on a government which has been submitted to Brussels and which has abandoned the Galician fleet to its fate. But the Government of the State not only abandons the Swedish fleet by delegating to the European Union the decision on this issue, without having its own position, but attacks it by sending to Brussels the Recovery Plan which includes a series of tax measures which, under the umbrella of the improvement of the objectives of climate change, would have a serious impact on different economic sectors, in particular the fisheries sector and the whole of the activity it carries out. The so-called "green taxes" would serve, among other things, to equal the price of diesel to gasoline; a measure that the Government of the State had foreseen in the budgets of 2021 and which it finally did not include, but which now includes in the Recovery Plan that it sent to Brussels. The ban on subsidies to fuels can be a measure that alleviates the ecological problem, although -- as I have already indicated -- it can also aggravate it by producing more greenery by increasing the supply of ships at sea. But what is certain is that this measure will condemn many ships to disappearance, and it would mean the absolute ruin of the Welsh fishing fleet. In addition, there would be a competitive disadvantage against third countries which receive subsidies from their governments and which, in addition, do not have the controls on fishing which Europe has and, in particular, Galicia. These measures were a severe blow to the sea sector, especially to the downstream fleet; more than so many of those who have been subjected for years and who would make it impossible to maintain activity in many cases. BNG is not against the ecological transition, but we do not agree with the way it is being done. The consequences of change on the productive sectors of the country cannot be borne without alternatives. This is not an ecological transition from the sea sector, this is the disappearance of the Galician fleet. It is necessary to study and implement contingency mechanisms that address the consequences of the foreseeable measures to be put in place. The BNG -- as we have already done in the Fisheries Commission -- we're going to support this LNP because Galicia can't continue to allow these kinds of actions that blow our fleet -- one of the main fleets of the European Union -- to its disappearance. The Galician Union must firmly defend a sector representing 2% of the German GDP, which provides thousands of jobs, direct and indirect, and which, in addition -- as has already been said here -- is sustainable. Once again, all the institutions must be brought to bear the economic consequences for the sector and for Galicia, but above all the social consequences that will bring together. The meeting to be held by the World Trade Organization at the end of November must reach the firm position of the Government of the State in defence of the interests of the Welsh fishing fleet that prevents the ban on subsidies to fuel. And for that, the Galician Union must transfer this petition to the Government with the same firmness as it defends this petition from the Welsh fleet. As far as we are concerned, the BNG will continue to defend the Galician fleet, and the fishing sector in Europe and our Euro MP Ana Miranda will continue to be the voice of the sector in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u53	Thank you, Mrs González Iglesias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u54	Well, let's see, Mrs González, you've already said a lot more than the non-Euro MP Ana Miranda. She is not a Member of Parliament, she is an adviser to a group in the European Parliament; that is to begin with. With all due respect to Ana Miranda, but she is not a Member of Parliament. You're in a Green Group that's promoting and moving a letter in Brussels to go in favour of that elimination; that is, the opposite of what you've defended in this gallery. So it makes all the sense, after your speeches, that we bring this here today, because if you vote in favour of the Commission, if you approve the non-law proposal and then are doing the opposite in the decision-making bodies, we have to ask you again and say so. Because, besides, Mrs Otero, she says it's the same PNL and she's very surprised that it's the same. But you make a completely different amendment. Why didn't they make the same amendment they do today in September? Because they didn't do anything, because there were bandages and because they went back. Because something would probably have worked out to approve this amendment in Commission 8th; it certainly worked out. Because you asked for the Board to manifest itself firmly against this, kicking its ass, because the Board had already manifested itself in May and was in September. And now you are asking that the Council of Galicia continue to manifest itself and that the Government of Spain continue to plead in front of the European Union. Why wasn't this the case in September? Because they didn't! And, therefore, they now put the word "continue" as a true coat of hair. We bring this GNP here again because our MEPs in Brussels and the Greek Member Paco Millán Mon -- yes he is a Member -- is what informs us of what the Greens do, that, look!, because they are even alerting us to the danger of cooking seafood for animal welfare. So, look at what we can bring in the future, because we are really looking forward to what is decided in Brussels and what the Greens decide in Brussels. [[Murmurs.]] So those of the Galician Nationalist Block -- who always want to own the fleet, the fishermen and who are the only authorized voice to speak of them -- are the ones who are doing the most damage to them today with the measures being taken in Brussels. Mrs. González, it's reality. [[Applause]] And -- that's why I say it -- your speech here is transmitted to the Greens, but they say it and they vote for it there, as you said here. And then, well, it's surprising the self-esteem and self-love of the Galician Nationalist Block itself. Nestor Rego was also the savior of Galicia in Parliament and the Congress of Deputies and signed a role that did not have a line on fishing and which, in addition, was totally in wet paper. They are still members of the Government of Spain and are with the Greens in Brussels, and we have to say this in this gallery of the Parliament of Galicia because it is the reality. Decisions on fishing in Brussels are very important to us, and more and more. And as it's far away, it seems we don't know and we don't realize, but if we realize. In this case, the Galician Nationalist Block has no Euro MP and our Euro MP Francisco Millán Mon is making a ferocious defense of the Galician fleet in Brussels. So, to finish, there are many senseless agravations that are suffering from our fleet: the regulation of control, the Brexit, the brownish, the general plan of marine exploitation... all of this was this disincentive, the crane of the pastel, which is to put subsidies on gas oil. This is going to hurt a lot the craft fleet, a lot, our Galician fleet. Why has the Government of Spain changed its position on this matter? It'll be because we've been asking for it insistently from here. What will the Central Government do now? What are you going to do? We ask for it firmly, as you were asked in September, from the Galician Union, and we continue to ask for it firmly from the People's Party. What is the Galician Nationalist Block going to do and what does it say in Brussels? These are questions that are still unanswered today, and there is no time left, so we bring this initiative back to this plenary. Either we're or we're not in the fishing sector. Today it seems clear, by these two positioning options, that Pedro Sánchez and the PSdEG do not care at all about the fishing sector. We are not going to accept this amendment because it does not at all alter the meaning of the final resolution; therefore, we are not going to accept it. And, look, we don't understand -- I insist -- the change of opinion of the European Commission, which previously agreed with Galicia's opinion, nor do we understand that the Central Government preaches itself to that position, that it does follow up with that negative position, nor do we agree with the radical green color that shows some formations in Europe, or with the silence of its partners in Galicia, or with the attempt to move that they do not belong to that formation, because it is really true that we have to defend the environment, but it is also true that there is absolute injustice towards the Galician fleet, the Spanish fleet and the treatment that other countries of the European Union are having with Spain. Therefore, there must be the same rules of play in all maritime-fishing activity, both in the economic, environmental and social sectors, and other measures can be taken to shorten illegal fishing and irresponsible practices of certain fleets without harming those who act responsibly as well as the Galician. It is our duty from this Parliament to defend it always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to ensure the right to abortion in the public health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u56	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u57	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u58	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Let me read something to them. "The health provision of voluntary termination of pregnancy shall be carried out in or linked to public health centres. Health professionals directly involved in the voluntary interruption of pregnancy will have the right to exercise conscientious objection without the access and quality of care of the benefit being undermined by the exercise of conscientious objection. The refusal or refusal to perform the intervention of voluntary termination of pregnancy for reasons of conscience is always an individual decision of the health personnel directly involved in carrying out the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, which must be manifested in advance and in writing. If, exceptionally, the Public Health Service could not make provision easier in time, the health authorities will recognize the right of pregnant women to go to any accredited center in the national territory -- national, Spanish State -- "with a written commitment to take direct payment of the benefit." This is article 19.2 of Law 2/2010 of 3 March, sexual and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy. Since 2010, as all of your lords know, the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is free and informed until the 14th week of management in the Spanish State. Thus it was regulated in the law that I have just cited, organic 2/2010, which replaced the previous one, the law popularly known as "the law of assumptions", of 1985, so that abortion was decriminalized at that time, but only partially and only in certain very specific cases, such as the risk to the fetus, the risk to the mother or rape. In Galicia and data for the year 2020, recently published by the Ministry of Health, last year, 2,490 abortions took place in our country. According to the type of center in which they took place, the vast majority, 91.7%, were in outpatient centers, and of them 1,868 in private clinics. In our country today, with the latest data -- I insist, 2020 -- seven out of every ten voluntary interruptions of pregnancy take place in private health. This has been so since the adoption of the 2010 law that I just read and, in fact, the percentage of abortions in the private network, in private clinics, in Galicia, was even bigger years ago, reaching above 90%. Without going further, in 2014 it was 92% of the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy. What was the situation in 2009? I mean, what was the situation in our country a year before that 2010 deadline law was passed? According to the annual reports of the Ministry of Health, Galicia had taken place in that year, that is, the previous right to the adoption of the Term Act, 3,208 abortions, the vast majority before the eighth week of management. Of them, 1,874 were in private centers, 58%; 462 in public centers and -- well!-- 872 in a category called "others", which is not specified as what these others are, but probably go to London or clinics that, in any case, weren't very clear what system they belonged to. Imagine the situation for women, and now remember that the People's Party wants to drag us back to that 1985 law. Why do we make this brief historical review? Why don't we look back and see what the percentages were before the 2010 law passed and now? Because the deadlines law passed in 2010 had a double objective, at least formally: the first was to decriminalize abortion and guarantee it as a right for women without limit than their free and informed invocation of women during the first fourteen weeks of management. Secondly, it was to guarantee the exercise of the right to abortion free of charge, in terms of equality, and with the highest quality of care through the public health network for all women, regardless of where they lived. That is why the law is very clear when it sets aside the use of private centres. I am going to read again Article 19.2: "If the Public Health Service is exceptionally unable to facilitate the provision in time, the health authorities will recognize the pregnant woman's right to go to any accredited centre in the territory of the State, with a written commitment to take direct payment of the benefit." So why isn't voluntary interruption of pregnancy in public health, in public health centers, guaranteed after ten years of adoption of the law? Why are private clinics going on ten years later -- right here in Galicia, eh! -- those that carry out practically all of the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy? I'm going back to the 2020 data, 77% of abortions carried out in our country. And here I make an incision because it's the norm, but not all the territories have followed the same path. Only Balearic Islands, only the Ballearic Islands ensure that more than half of the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy are practised in public health, in public direct management centres, followed by Catalonia, which does not reach 50%, is now 49.8%. Why has the rule in the Spanish state as a whole been made of exception and, within it, also in Galicia? Why? Supposedly by the conscientious objection of the professionals. And I'm supposed to say why this isn't the only factor -- and then we'll see-- There are professionals who refuse, accepting a right that is regulated in their own legislation, to practice an abortion, appealing to an ethical or moral conflict; that is, to a conflict with their feelings and beliefs, fundamentally religious. This is -- I insist -- provided by law, it's regulated, it's recognized, it's protected. Article 19 of the Abortion Act has been judicially protected since 1985 -- the Constitutional Court's judgement -- and that is, that interpretation of the limits of the right of conscientious objection has been extended to very questionable limits. I'm not going too far, six years ago, in a 2015 sentence, it's said that that right of objection can extend to professionals working in pharmacies to refuse to sell something so basic and fundamental to which we have the right of all women, as is the pill of the day after. It's, at least, surprising; they have support to refuse to sell it. But, in any case, this is the picture. The objection of consciousness would give rise to an intense, deep and interesting debate from many points of view about -- especially everything -- the collision of two fundamental rights, which is that right of objection but, at the same time, the right of women to voluntarily interrupt our pregnancy in a public service, in the public network. In any case, as you can see in the resolution of our non-law proposal that we have made today since BNG, this is not the proposal that we have made; it is not our intention to open this debate right now, even if we could do so, and not that it would open the mouth of hell. I just brought the example that it is true that there are countries -- they are the least of our environment, but there are European countries -- where sexual and reproductive rights prevail, women's abortion rights, about that conscientious objection. There are only three of them so far, Sweden, Lithuania and Finland, who do not allow their professionals to invoke this right of objection to refuse to interrupt a pregnancy. In any case, that's not the reason or that's not the question that we want to put on the table today from the BNG, rather the opposite, what we want to say is that, regardless of the circumstances that match -- one may be the objection, but not just, I'll now detail why --, it always has to be guaranteed -- first because it says the law, then because it's a fundamental right -- that voluntary interruption of pregnancy in the public health network. And I say it's not unique and exclusively the objection that's limiting the exercise of this right to women in the public health network, because there's another factor that determines it, which is the lack of resources within the hospital and outpatient centres of the public health network in our country. Right now in Galicia, in the public health network, within the vast majority of the public health centers in Galicia, just drug abortions, and the vast majority of them -- you get the data; I'm not going to get them down here either -- they're doing it in private clinics, because other procedures are used, basically aspiration. This is also the result of ten years of absolute political determination, of not wanting to put the services, the media, the professionals and the materials, material resources, human and budgetary resources needed to do or carry out these voluntary interruptions of pregnancy within the public network of our country. That's why -- and with this ending -- what we're making today from BNG is something simple but truly important, which is that they are guaranteed, putting the means that are necessary, both human and material, and economic, so that those voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, which are the exercise of a sexual and reproductive right, a fundamental right of any woman in our country, can be carried out not only where she should be, which we understand is the Greek public health, but where the law says that they must be conducted on a priority basis, which is within the public health network of our country. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u60	Thank you, President. I would like to thank you for this debate, for being able to participate in this debate, which, although it is a debate in the field of health, has a lot to do with ideological positions. This is a really uncomfortable question for the People's Party, we know it, and it's a question, besides, that, by the way, its rowmate, the mayor of Madrid, Mr. Almeida, would put it back on the table a few days ago, a few days ago, claiming a return to the law of the 1985 abortion, alluding that the election program of the People's Party was not being carried out. But it's just that Mr. Married had already spoken. Then it looks like he left the subject... - Can I go on, please? -- a little sideways because, of course, he was putting himself in more extreme right positions. [[Murmurs.]] But Mr. Casado also spoke in the same way in 2019, in the election campaign, by the way, of Mr. Suárez Illana's hand -- number 2 of the P.P. candidacy of the Madrid Community -- which stated that Neanderthals also used abortion: they were born and cut off their heads. This was the number two of the PP's candidacy for Madrid, and this, ladies and gentlemen, of the PP's, is ideology; of course, it's ideology. By the way, the ideology of the most bitter, aberrant and reactionary that we can hear already well advanced in the 21st century. [[Applause]] Nor did we see at that time that Mr. Suárez Illana's words were corrected in some way. We, of course, are pleased that we don't have to listen to these borders here in Galicia by our government leaders, but I'll also tell them that there are many other ways to rape women without having to go to those demonstrations. And one of them is precisely not to guarantee compliance with the organic law that has already been discussed here, 2/2010, which certainly constituted an advance in women's rights. Because, in fact, that women interrupt our pregnancy and decide on our lives is a right guaranteed today by a socialist law that overcame the earlier legislation of 1985, of the supposed, and opened up to all women the possibility of deciding more freely on our body. I mean, we have a law, which I think has been clear, we have a law since 2010, but, of course, that law, they like it or not, they have to comply with it, and to ensure that compliance, that legislative framework, that organic law that is in force, collects, in its article 19, measures to ensure the provision of health services, two articles. One has already come out here and had to deal with this exceptionality so as not to practice these abortions in clinics, in public centers, in the public health network. That's one. But the first article says that all women will be guaranteed equal access to that benefit -- eye! --, regardless of where they live. And here's where the problem appears, because not all the women in Greece have guaranteed equal access to abortion in our country, nor to derive from private in Galicia is something exceptional. And we say this because, in order to prepare for this intervention, we consult the primary sources and we know that not in all the health areas of Galicia is proceeding in the same way, because if it is true that there are health areas -- and this must be highlighted -- in which women have guaranteed abortion, and for example, in the health area of Santiago. But there are others in which the same thing doesn't happen at all. In other cases, it is decided that drug abortions -- of those already spoken here, that is, those that don't need to go to the surgery, to a hospital -- are performed in the public, but then the pregnancies that are between ten and fourteen weeks are already caused by the private. In another health area, for example, women with fewer than fourteen weeks of pregnancy give us a choice if we want to abort with medication; and if we don't want to abort with medication, they also transfer us to private clinics. What does that mean? Well, that means that once again the women of Greece will have more or less rights according to where they live, just that. Or, said otherwise, we have already violated the law in its article 19.1. [[Applause]] But also, as BNG's spokesman said on 19.2. Because, as we say, that condition of exceptionality is not such, unless we understand exceptionally -- which may also be -- the lack of optionals or surgeries from those with our public health. In fact, we understand that it is possible that the public health system in Greece might not be able to practice so many interruptions of pregnancy -- it's said here, 2,500-- We count on the human resources we count on -- obviously, and given the precariousness we have, it's quite likely that it is -- and also on the materials, but it's their responsibility to find the formulas so that it's so, so that it's the public health that gives us an answer, and it's certainly not up to the opposition to determine what those formulas would be. By the way, we also want to leave a manifesto here -- and this is an important question that we want to bring to the collation -- another concern that has given us in the light of the detailed study of these data and also of conversations with our sources consulted. It's possible that part of these abortions that are practiced in these private clinics are women who don't even go through the public anymore, who don't come from the public and who don't go through the public or advise themselves. In fact, it is true that the expert persons consulted doubted or were surprised at these so high figures of interventions outside the public, and found it partly to be a manifest lack of knowledge of the law. We women don't know, we don't know that, in fact, in this country we have guaranteed our right to abortion in the public system. Well, of course, we've guaranteed it, but not all of it, depending on where we live. For this reason, of course, from the PSdEG, we believe it is necessary for the Health Council to launch an information campaign on this right affecting, as I say, 2,500 women a year. It's not a minor matter, but for that, the People's Party must be brave and stay away from the morality and Puritanism that guides them in this matter. I've already exposed the group's spokesperson to propose the data, and of course, for our group only have one reading, and reading is political: they don't want to compromise public health with a matter which, as I said at first, is uncomfortable, and so let it do, so let it do, depending on the health area, without worrying the least about the enforcement of a law that guarantees women the right to decide about our bodies; let it do or appeal also -- true -- to conscientious objection. By the way, an objection of conscience that is not such; it is not such an objection of conscience to which the president of the board continually appeals when he speaks of this matter. For you conscientious objection is the perfect excuse to focus on health professionals and thus justify the lack of resources, privatization and the intended dismantling of public health. It is their responsibility; it is the responsibility of this government to ensure that all women who wish to interrupt their pregnancy can do so in Galicia, with full and quality care, according to international protocols and with the highest and best possible health, psychological and emotional care. Then, logically, they must guarantee their assistance in centers of the public network, and only exceptionally, as the law says, to go to private. By the way, what I just said now is not a novelty for this parliamentary group, we've been complaining about it for a long time, because, unfortunately, this is not a problem today, it's not a problem that only concerns us at present. On several occasions the Socialist Group has formulated in the Galician Parliament the need for a second health care plan for women. The first was the Government chaired by President Emilio Pérez Touriño -- by the way, that you kept in a drawer -- that is yes, in response, and in response, in addition, to an incident that occurred after Sergas was sentenced by a woman who did not treat them well. It has already been dealt with in this Parliament, and there have been some negligence in that matter. In response, the Galician Union finally announced a comprehensive plan for assistance to those who interrupt pregnancy, a political commitment that does not seem to be being fulfilled. By finishing up, in essence, and in the light of the data and the relevant law, we add ourselves, of course, as it could not be otherwise, to this proposal not of law to urge the Board to ensure that women in our country can abort with all guarantees in a public health system, of course, Welsh. From there comes our amendment, in case there were any doubts and if the People's Party, in a robbery of ideological generosity, this initiative was approved. So we wanted it to be clear that he was referring to our territory. I'm done, now I'm done. To freely choose our motherhood and the present and future of our lives is a decision only of our women, but to do it with all guarantees and in our public system is a responsibility of the Government, because the objection of conscience, the lack of resources, and the administrative obstacles -- all of them, of course -- can never be above our rights. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative that the BNG Group brings to this plenary today is a very sensitive subject for many women in Greece, such as the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. And I say it's delicate because for the woman who decides to end pregnancy it's not an easy decision; it's rather a painful situation for any mother. So we must be very respectful and serious about seven issues. We're not going to go into what Mrs. Díaz said, naming political leaders. I could also answer you by appointing leaders of your party, but the truth is, we don't think that it makes any positive contribution to this debate, which, as I say, is a very serious debate for many Greek women. [[Applause]] We are going to vote in favour of this initiative because we respect the laws and rights of women, which are recognized in them, both from the German Government and from the People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodil, we support the Greek women, we support the women who choose to be mothers or not. We would also like to know if you support women who want to have children with the same intensity, or support Redmadre, for example. We support women, always without exception. [[Applause]] It is true that there are some factors that influence the applications of VAT on the public network, but what we cannot admit, as we have heard in this House, is that Galicia does not comply with legislation on this matter. The German Government, as we have said many times, absolutely complies with the laws. I would like to remind you of some recent news: "The Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo authorizes consultations prior to an IVE to take place in a non-presentative manner. He commits himself, along with Catalonia, to regulate him in confinement." "Galice creates two clinical committees to regulate abortion cases." Therefore, the German Government not only complies with the law, but rather cares about this subject in exceptional situations, as it was in the confinement. Because he ultimately cares about the women who have to go through this desirable situation. In Galicia it works to ensure the quality and safety of care in women's health care, and it is done through various measures, such as the application of the performance protocols, in accordance with Law 2/2010 of 3 March, of sexual and reproductive health and voluntary interruption of pregnancy. Sergas' VE care circuits are applicable in public hospitals in all areas of health and cover all aspects necessary to ensure that women who wish to interrupt their pregnancy can do so in Galicia, and can do so with comprehensive and quality care, in accordance with international protocols and with greater and better health care, according to the applicable legality, and following the most demanding protocols. In Sergas, there are different procedures and performance protocols depending on whether they are abortions of less than fourteen weeks, from fourteen to twenty-two, or more than twenty-two gestational abortions. In cases of CVIs of less than fourteen weeks, it gives the woman the opportunity to choose between performing in a hospital in the Welsh public network, or, if she prefers, according to her circumstances, to go to one of the clinics that have a regulated authorization by the Health Council. Up to twenty-two weeks -- it corresponds to article 15.a) maternal medical cause, and 15.b) fetal medical cause, of the law we have just said -- they are assumed in public hospitals in the health areas of our autonomous community. As for the legal interruptions of pregnancy from the week twenty-two, according to article 15(c) of the same law, because the fetus presents anomaly incompatible with life or an extremely serious and incurable disease, after being evaluated by the clinical committee appointed for this purpose, since mid-2017 it focuses on its realization in Vigo Cunqueiro hospitals and the University Hospital Complex of Ourense, which have sufficient physical resources and human resources to carry out this activity with all the guarantees that require the current legislation. You're told that many of the VlVs don't happen on the public network. You read an article in the law. I read another one, which says article 13, which says: "They are necessary requirements for voluntary termination of pregnancy, first, that it is practiced by a specialist doctor or under his direction, and, second, that it is carried out in a public or private accredited health centre." Many of the EVVs do in concerted clinics, and they don't lack reason, but there's a very important fact that you forget, and that the woman can choose where to interrupt, and precisely to us it seems very important to us the freedom of the woman to choose where she wants to do it. We're not going to go into that, and we think rights should be exercised individually and not by taxation. Another of the factors that you cited, and which, in short, influences, is the right to object to the conscience of professionals. It could be a very long debate, but you yourself said it, Mrs. Rodil, is also a right, which sometimes complicates all of them in public health, because it's an intervention which, as we all know, can't spread over time and can't wait too long. What was the head of the CHUO Xynecology service, in question of a medium, I didn't think there was -- read textually -- "to strip the clothes for concertating with a private clinic. It's done with hips, knee prosthesis... It's part of normalizing the process." Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that what is important is that the German woman who decides to subject herself to an IV has good health care and that she is in the best condition. Handling data does not seem to fit very much to reality. Perhaps we should correct the record and move forward in a better communication of the data sent to the Ministry, so that they can't be used sometimes as a daring weapon. This theme -- I was saying it -- it's a lot, a lot more serious than all that. There's no doubt that since the People's Group we are greatly concerned about the attention given to women in case they have to submit to an EVI, because we know it's a situation that, any woman who is a mother, would avoid, if possible. That's why and because it's a woman's right, collected by law, that we're sure it's done in Galicia, we're going to vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all again. I also appreciate the tone of the debate. Well, it's just that Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo always talks like this. I'm going to comment on some questions. With regard to the amendment, we accept it. In fact, it becomes more clear that it is within the Galician Health Service. We assumed that, speaking of Galicia, we already understood, but okay, we accepted that amendment of the Socialist Party's addendum. And then some questions. We also appreciate the support of the group itself, expressed by Mrs Díaz, and the support, the favourable vote, of the People's Party. I also tell you as a matter of precedent that I, today, if I am given time, have already taken steps to ensure that this is done, and I say why. I don't want to serve them to wash their conscience and make you separate from that toughest wing of your own party inside... let me finish my exhibition and say why. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because for you it may be convenient to vote now with the green button and let everything continue the same, because I, with your exhibition, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, understand that they understand that they comply with the 2010 Law as it is now. And I insist on the data: this is where it is not guaranteed that all voluntary interruptions of pregnancy or the vast majority of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy take place within the public health network of this country. There's something about your exposure that's deeper than form and that I'm not in agreement with at all, because you said you had to guarantee the highest quality. Indeed, and so we recognize it and collect ourselves in the resolution part of the proposal. But in the end, there is a dichotomy that is absolutely false, but very prejudicial, that only this quality of care can be guaranteed in private health rather than in the public. When they put themselves -- which is what BNG asks for in the proposal, and so I hope that it will be met by the Government of Galicia -- the material media, the human media and, above all, also the budgetary resources, that quality, indisputably, is guaranteed in the public health of our country. And it's false, it's completely false, that it's mostly private clinics where abortions or voluntary interruptions of pregnancy are carried out because it's a free decision by women. To be a free and personal decision of each woman, we have to give them the same choices in private as in the public, and it's not true. I'll give you the example of the Coruña health area. You go to the FOC, and if you want and opt for a voluntary interruption of pregnancy via pharmacology, it's done in the public health network, but if you opt for an aspirational procedure -- and that's that if it's a free and individual decision of each of the women -- you have to go directly to a private clinic, because you don't offer that possibility within public health, and that's not because you don't know about professionals, you wouldn't even dare tell me why all of them or they're conscientious objectors, but because you're not providing the material and budgetary human resources of this country's public health to ensure it's within public health. So it's not a women's free decision-making, but it's limited that decision-making capacity, and we know it, especially women know that it's not the same drug abortion as one that is, for example, an aspiration, which is less invasive, in which you're not alone, that you're accompanied, and that there's a sedation. I share that it's delicate, that it's a delicate subject, but it's not a taboo. And the staff is political, and it can't lead us to a mindset that's an individual problem for each and every one of us, but it's part of our collective rights as women. I insist very much on this: it's personal but it's also political, because, after all, we talk about women's rights. I don't know if women who are mothers understand it or some women, if they had other circumstances, would make another decision. That's what we have to do. That decision has to be shielded as a fundamental right that is for all women, regardless of whether they made a different decision in other circumstances or not. By agreeing -- I insist -- that it's a delicate topic, I also want to underline that it can't be a taboo, not much less be reduced to a problem just individually, because it's political and collective. Finally -- and with this over -- you asked us if we supported Redmadre. No, no, because they've been trying all their lives that we can't exercise a fundamental right, such as the right to abortion. [[Applause]] And every step of the feminist movement, we've always found in that Redmadre a reactionary movement, limiting fundamental rights or the exercise of fundamental rights like this one. So clear and round: no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. We suspended the meeting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u66	Good afternoon. We continue the session. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the procedure opened by the European Commission to Spain for irregularities in the extension of the grant of AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u67	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u68	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We've taken many -- possibly too many already -- debates on AP-9. And I'd say today's is one of the most important of all that we've done in this Parliament -- at least in the last four or five years --. The fact that we repeat so many debates about AP-9 is a sign that things have not been done well, that there are many demands and many grievances still pending to resolve. We have had a lot of debates on transfer, which has not yet come true, despite the fact that there have been three unanimous agreements in this Parliament in the last five years. And you know why it didn't come true? For it has not come true by the veto, by the three vetoes, of the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies and by the government of Mr. Mariano Rajoy, who has prevented that decision from coming forward. And if it does not abound with this betrayal -- which cannot otherwise be called the People's Party of Madrid, with the submission of the People's Party of Wales -- now it seems that you want to add the Socialist Party to the veto in parliamentary processing. We also have a lot of debates about the abusive increase in the rates of AP-9. The latter are derived from the agreements signed by the Central Government, by the Socialist Government, in 2011 and 2018, which were in any case applied to the regattabla by all governments and which last year gave rise to a strong report by the Consultative Council, which declared them null and void in full right and illegal. On this subject, we have had good news in recent times, which was the discount applied this year and in the following to certain types of trips. And it's relevant, important and historical, because it's the first time the beaches are down after so long. And that's -- you have to say it and you have to recognize it -- thanks to BNG's negotiation in the 2018 investment. For this it is useful to have your own voice in Madrid, so it is useful to have a Member who obeys the interests of Galicia in Madrid! It's only 1 more than 21! [[Applause]] Yeah, I know they like this, but that's why I say it, to give them the ear. [[Applause]] And we have many debates about the duration of the concession, which, as we know, ended in 2012, which expanded to three times and now reaches 2048; that is, seventy-five years, the legal maximum, which has only three highways in the state and two of them are Welsh. That's how you treat us in Madrid. One of the conclusions of this whole debate we have about AP-9 is that the action of the State -- and I'm talking about all central governments -- is under suspicion. And I'd say something else -- and this is from my harvest -- I'd say it borders prevarication and law fraud, like this, with these words. Much less than this, there's a lot of people in jail. Yeah, yeah, there's a lot of people in jail much less than they did with AP-9. [[Murmurs.]] And far less than this, there are public officials who have been fined and punished. And you know what happened to those responsible for these AP-9 abuses? They haven't been fined, they haven't been fined. They were awarded. For example, one was with the Galician medal and the other with chairs on boards of administration. It's a real joke, a scam and an outrage. [[Applause]] And we, the BNG, are certainly not going to allow anyone who abuses our country. One of the most scandalous decisions of this whole period, which is now at the European Commission's point of view, is the extension of the concession in 2000 by the government of Aznar, with Arias Salgado as Minister of Transport -- that extension of twenty-five years to 2048 --. It was a decision that was aggravated three years later by the sale at the balance price of the National Highway Company, including Audasa, which was also approved -- for more inri already, for more ridicule -- on July 25, 2003. It was 1,586 million who entered the state for a sale to a group led by the builder Sacyr -- that, of course, how you use that of "well-born is to be grateful," two years later he became advisor to Mr. Arias Salgado, the head of extension of the concession until 2048 --. If this isn't called prevarication, it's squeezing the width, because it's really walking very close, uh, it's very close. And, of course, at that time, on July 25, 2003, those who sat at the board of directors, who were then vice president and councillor of the COTOP, were Mr. Nuñez Fexóo, who shut up and applauded this operation. And about this, the Court of Auditors has already said -- that is why I say that some have good luck with this from the Court of Auditors' reports --, which in 2004 said the following: "This extension of the twenty-five-year concession would mean for this concessionary a quantity of economic resources from both the greater tax and financial benefits as well as the higher toll income." This is what the State Court of Auditors said in 2004. I mean, it was a big ball, a big scam, as much as they want to legalize it. It says so in all the letters of the Court of Auditors. And in addition to the million-dollar tax business up to 2048, which the concessionaire itself came to quantify at 4,500 million -- tell me if it's not a ballast --, they were also benefited by an extension of the deadline to repay a loan of 118 million euros that the state had granted to the company, which had to return from 2000 and which, graciously, also has to return from 2042, more than 40 years later, in addition to tax benefits, from the 95 % tax exemption, to a private company. And in case this wasn't scandalous and abusive enough, the final lock was still missing. And the final deal has to do with this file opened by the European Commission on the basis of a complaint by the En-Colective association, which we have to bring from here, from this Parliament, our recognition and our gratitude for the defence that they defend of the interests of Galicia and the people who are defrauded by the peas of AP-9. And what this European Commission file basically says is that the central government has violated the law with that extension of the concession, and that this situation has to be reversed, it has to be returned to legality. And that's just about canceling that extension of the concession. Because there's also a similar case in Italy, about the Tirrenic Highway, which was also the subject of an information file like this one and which ended up, as a result of the Italian Government's disobedience, in the European Union's Court of Justice. We are therefore faced with a totally timely initiative, because we are at that time the central government has two months to respond to that request from the European Commission. And Parliament cannot remain impassable in the face of a situation of this gravity and of this relevance, and therefore we propose a clear and forceful pronouncement that has two elements, two questions: the first is reprobation -- which deserves nothing else -- of governments that have irregularly approved the extension of the concession; and the second is to demand from the Government of the State that studies the ways to cancel the extensions granted irregularly, illegally, as the European Commission has said. Finished as I started. We're having a lot of debates and we're going to give more, we're going to give everyone we need. We'll be insistent, we'll be persistent, we'll be tireless until we get rid of the abuse, the fraud, the theft of AP-9, to end the damage and to get justice, so that we can get once and for all an AP-9 Welsh and free of toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u69	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u70	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The truth is that Mr Bará at the beginning of his speech seemed to modulate the speech a little bit about the way in which his non-law proposal was drafted, because in the non-law proposition the Nationalist Block Galego has already ruled that all the extensions granted are illegal -- well, the extensions of the AP-9 concessions --. Mr. Bará began by saying they were under suspicion, and it was a way to modulate the speech a little. But the truth is, if at first it seemed that he would decaffeinate his speech a little bit, then he claimed that they were conducts that were already surrounding prevarication. And you, the Galician Nationalist Block, what you did on your initiative was kind of a mix, as if it were a little bit of a salad. Because they mix all extensions of the AP-9 concession. And what is clear is that since the Government of Spain is working actively with Brussels to clarify what happened with AP-9, to clarify what happened with that extension grant, to clarify the origin of a decision made by another government over 20 years ago. But it's a decision made, let's remember, by a government of the People's Party. We must not miss the truth, which is questioned in that report from the European Commission is the last extension granted, not the previous one, Mr Bará. And you, like me, know that. I can understand the political game of the Galego Nationalist Block, I understand that they want to pull out political cuts on this subject and that they want to confuse citizenship. [[Applause]] But what is clear is that in that report the only extension that is being questioned is that of Mr Aznar's year, that of the year 2000. Well, as I said, the extension that is being questioned is that of the year 2000, which is true that it was an extension granted by skipping the procedure legally established at that time, when that concession was extended for another twenty-five years until 2048. If it wasn't for this decision of a popular government, the Greeks and the Greeks would be about to circulate for AP-9 at no cost, because other cohesive highways in time are already free. But Mr. Aznar didn't stand there. He extended that concession until 2048 -- from then on to make it more attractive and profitable -- and in 2003 privatized Audasa. He therefore first extended the concession in 2000 until 2048, and three years later privatized Audasa. At that time, Mr Aznar was very much given to privatizing public enterprises. The Navy will also remember the July 24, 1997, date when he privatized Inespal. So what you decided to put into private hands a public infrastructure was the People's Party's government, and what you did was a highly profitable business for you to concession. The figures were already given by Mr Bará. So Mr. Aznar passed the Audasa company from the public to the private. And of course, we have to ask ourselves a few questions: who was for that time the infrastructure advisor, the COTOP, the Galician board? What was the moment Audasa was privatized? I'm talking, let's remember, the year 2003. Well, yes, Mr. Feijóo -- the current president of the Galician board -- was for that time the Infrastructure Advisor. And what did he say or what did Mr. Aznar do when he privatized Audasa? Tell me what you did! Nothing! Shut up and sit down before what he did from Madrid with his AP-9 leader. As I have said, the Central Government is at the disposal of the European Commission to clarify all the details on this enlargement. Because -- I repeat -- we don't lie and we don't cheat on citizenship. The extension of the AP-9 which questions Europe is only the last one, that of the year 2000, that of Mr Aznar. Nor should we fall into the mistake of wanting to be judges. I refer to the assertions made by the Nationalist Block of Galicia in its initiative that extensions are illegal. BNG, as if he were a judge, sentence and claims these are illegal. And you know that the European Commission report opens up a procedure for determining whether or not they are illegal. It's not said taxively in the report that it's illegal, which opens is the door to which it can be declared illegal. But I think it's welcome to be rigorous with this fact and not to create, of course, false expectations in citizenship with the possibility of recovering all the money from the fees. At the moment it is ready to know what effect it will bring with it the procedure opened by the European Commission to Spain. And you, like us, know that it will be very difficult for you to recover the money charged by taxes. In addition, we must take into account the possible disbursement that the State would have to make if Audasa lost the concession and it would have to be compensated, fruit, of course, for the bad rule of Mr. Aznar. Here, rights on the concession have been strengthened, so it would turn out, if it were the case, rather complex to recover those fees. Things aren't as simple as the Galician Nationalist Block. But, of course, the Government of Spain will seek to protect the public interest, that of the state and that of the taxpayers, so that this is no longer an economic prejudice in the alleged compensation of the concession. So let's be strict, what opens up is a legal process of a lot of complexity in which it's said to make extensions of concession without a public tender undermines competition; and, therefore, it could -- it could -- it could be declared illegal in that field. And, look, in front of a Government of the People's Party that extends and privatizes comes another government, presided over by Pedro Sánchez, and since June 2021 all and all users -- not just a few, as happens in self-competitive highways where these bonuses are directed only to a certain sector of the population, as are the numerous families -- we enjoy a historical downside in the AP-9 beaches. These bonuses at the AP-9 tariffs are a fruit of the general state budgets approved in 2021, which -- as I will not tire of repeating -- both the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Party voted against. [[Applause]] Therefore, they voted against these bonuses in AP-9's beaches; they voted against that, only in the first month of bonus in AP-9's beaches, the Greeks and the Greeks save 3.4 million euros; they voted against discounts for all light vehicles every day of the year, so that the trips back are free, so that there will be an additional 50 % discount on the trip and 100 % off back in Vigo-Tui; they voted against the discount for recurring customers; they voted against an additional 20 % for heavy vehicles. [[Applause]] So this is the reality. It's very good that you also come out of this investment agreement of the Galician Nationalist Block with the Socialist Party, but then the reality of the facts is very different. Because when we have to shut up is in those general government budgets, because that's where those bonuses were allowed. Because if not, tell me the Galego Nationalist Block how they intended to boost those AP-9 peas without the state's general budgets. So, as I say, it's not like they govern some of them to govern others; some privatize Audasa and others what we're doing is blessing these beaches until 2048, which is the year in which Mr Aznar's extension will end. But, well, returning to the end of the initiative, I would like to make it clear that what the European Union report questions is the last extension, is the extension of the year 2000, Mr Aznar's extension. I can buy the speech to the Galician Nationalist Block for his voters, but what it can't be is that they cheat on citizenship and say all these extensions are illegal and, even more, that they can recover their money, which is an easy way to recover them. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Yesterday I read a teletype in the afternoon where Mrs. Pontón -- Magnanimous, as always -- said she was giving the People's Party and the Socialist Party a chance again to stand in favour of Galicia and the peas of AP-9. What about politics if there was no BNG and Mrs. Pontón with that grandeur? What would it be like for her? [[Laughter]] What about politics and what would we be doing here? [[Murmurs.]] Too bad he decided to introduce himself again! [[Applause]] That's a lot worse! [[Applause]] The truth is, we don't believe what they say. Mr Bará said they had a timely initiative. But no, he's opportunistic, opportunistic, Mr Bará -- Mrs. Otero told him too. It's opportunistic, demagogic and hasty. You think politics is a succession of realist headlines, like "I'm going to reflect on my continuity," when we all knew what was going to happen. It was gonna happen that I was going to say I wanted to go on. You create an expectation that doesn't make any sense. [[Murmurs.]] They create the expectation -- I told Mrs. Otero -- of recovering fees here. You know that's not possible, or that at least it's very difficult. But what you're looking for is the headline, they don't care exactly about anything. In that strategy they consider Galician electorate to be children. It's not new. Mr. Beiras, when he was in the Galician Nationalist Block, said that in Galicia he won the People's Party because the voters were fools. Well, that's what the Galician Nationalist Block said. Then they came to say it was because the old people voted. We are delighted that the most experienced people vote for the People's Party, because they are of course the ones who treasure a great experience. Of course we agree, even if there are exceptions like Mr. Rivas, of course. [[Laughter]] But what you do is read the papers in the morning. Read the papers in the morning and create initiatives. They don't care about the bottom of the initiative and of course they don't argue at all. They should say that this communication from the European Union is not firm, that there is a two-month period to file allegations and that we are therefore waiting for what the Government of Spain can introduce -- that, of course, we don't know anything at all about whether something has been presented or not, although we suppose it will do so --. Because, without getting into the bottom of it, the European Union says that what is not given is enough competition, nothing more -- and nothing less --. But, look, there were three enlargements. The first was for the government of the UCD, Mr Garrigues Walker, to give a longer period of funding for the works. The second, Mr. Borrell -- with Tourin, by the way, in the State Government --. On that occasion it was to have free urban sections and to reach Tui's highway. By the way, he was granted ten years. That was already in the concessional title, Mrs. Otero, but they gave him ten years the same. And the third was at the time of Aznar, indeed, with an extension of twenty-five years. You know why? Because the highway didn't reach part of Galicia. I'm from Ferrol and I took the highway for many years -- when I was studying -- in Guisamo. We had to go from Ferrol to Guisamo. And later I picked her up at Fene, and she wasn't there either. And it turns out, fortunately, a ship with a temp pulled N-651 and so we could figure out and convince the government that he had made the highway. Yes, yes, it was enlarged, because it was made the plot from Fene to Ferrol free of charge. [[Murmurs.]] We may agree whether it was too many years or not, but there was a justification behind that extension of the highway, since there was it. What happens is that the block always didn't care that I had reached Ferrol's highway. They always cared little, they gave them exactly the same. But the purpose of course was not the same, Mrs. Otero, of course it was not the same. These enlargements, or these increases in concession periods, are common in concession contracts, even for the mayors of the Nationalist Block Galego. Look at the service contracts they have in the various municipalities. It's nothing strange. And these enlargements have always been done according to the law at every moment, of course. They made reports from the State Counsel, and reports from the General Intervention. And now is the time to resubmit them and justify the decisions, of course. And then we'll all be there. But once again, the Block is opportunistic, they want to get the sardine to their sardine, they don't notice at the bottom and believe that the headlines can be deceived by Galician voters. Well, there you are, there you are! Same as when they talk about public residence squares. They always come here saying that if the management of residences is not public, then they're no longer worth anything. But where they rule, they don't do it that way. And here in this Parliament we have had many occasions to give a lot of dates. Look, the Deputy of the Crown is planning to do three residences in the near future. Do you know how to handle them? Privately. Do you know who's governing the Crown Deputy? The Block. But that's it! [[Murmurs.]] Here they come to say something because they're looking for the headline, but when they really don't know and have a chance, they do whatever they want. That's right, they don't get colored. You know why? Because they're professional. They don't get colored because they're real professionals. Look where the BNG landslide comes from! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] When the socialists rule and lift the beaches of Barcala and Rande, it was the Union that agreed to pay more than 400 million euros with the money of the Greeks. I mean, they pay all the Greeks for lifting the beaches of a state highway. And you know what the Galician Nationalist Block said then? Nothing! I was still on the boat. The razor was far behind, but there he said absolutely nothing. And in that decision and in those governments there were people who are here today. You, Mr Bará, were part of the Bipartisan Government. There are Members -- I think two, in particular, Mrs Pontón and another -- who were Members in Parliament on that occasion. And what did they say when with the money of the Greeks they paid and they lifted taxes on a state highway? Nothing! What did the block say then? Nothing! He was quiet because he was in the government. What did the BNG do in the U.S. government? Give it a hand. Do you refuse the two-party Government to support that decision? No, no, then he didn't want to reprobate any kind of two-party government action. Well, following Mrs. Pontón's words, the PP gives him the opportunity, with that magnanimity that characterizes us, that he now includes in his initiative also reprobate the Bipartisan Government of the Union, which with money from all the Greeks raised and wanted to pay the fees of a highway like AP-9. But what did the Block do when the Galaga Competition Commission's report questioned the socialist government's decisions on the payment of the AP-9 enlargement? [[Applause]] Nothing! They didn't know. Then the block didn't do anything either. Or what did the Block do in front of the Galician Advisory Council report that said those 1% annual ups were completely void? For the same as the Socialist Party, nothing!, they didn't do anything. That is why this initiative, Mr Bará, is in all light demonstrated that it is opportunistic. This weekend there was an article in a newspaper entitled Dear children. He referred to a novel by David Trueba about the entertainment of an electoral campaign and said that there are parties that are in constant campaign, that they think the electorate are children who are not going to sink into the news, that they will stay with the headlines, which gives the same thing to say and the opposite. This same week Mrs Pontón was saying one thing about budgets and at the same time another Member of the Galician Nationalist Block said the opposite. "No matter what, they won't find out we said otherwise...!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And this is the way to act on the Galician Nationalist Block. Look, if you want to make politics, you have a chance to defend Galicia. You can ask your partners to withdraw the amendments tabled in Congress to process the transfer of AP-9. A few months ago we were there defending an initiative which came out unanimously from this Parliament. But when the time comes to present the amendments to the articulated, the Socialist Party says it doesn't want the transfer anymore. And what does the Galego Nationalist Block do when its partner doesn't want to transfer the highway, AP-9, Galicia? Nothing! Nothing! You know why? Because you prefer to keep your seats in the deputies and councils, vice-presidents in the deputies and mayors in the cities, rather than defending Galicia. And that will accompany them as they keep doing the same thing they're doing. [[Applause]] You keep thinking that the electorate won't find out, and the electorate is smarter than it seems; at least it seems to you. Well, they've been in opposition for twelve years, twelve years. [[Murmurs.]] They had the opportunity, by a few thousand votes, to rule for four years and sent them back to the opposition, where they had been twelve years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they don't think today's situation is much better than the Socialist Party's. They have more because in the Socialist Party they're entangled with each other and they have no direction. But continue to do the same, that we will continue to defend Galicia and you will continue to sell Galicia for a chair, which is what they know how to do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u73	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u74	Mr. Diego Calvo, I don't know if you thought what he said, but he said what he thought. You said the electorate is smarter than it seems, or smarter than it seems. I think he was portrayed with that statement. [[Applause]] Mrs. Otero, I don't know if you have complied with the law or not... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u75	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u76	Mr. Diego Calvo, relax that you're not on the speaking shift. Mrs. Otero, you say I make statements... I don't know if you've met or if you haven't met the law. It's called illegal, it's called irregular, it's called cambalache, it's called scam or whatever, but the law of recruitment has not been complied with. And it was not fulfilled in the extension of 2000 and not in 1994 of the Socialist Party, when there was a European recruitment directive at that time which clearly said that such an extension could not be made, that there should be a procedure for public tendering and tendering. How do you want us to explain it to him? It's so clear. And it was worth both cases. And En-Collective's complaint refers to both cases. And, of course, you say that if there had been no extension of the 2000 People's Party it would be free by 2023. And if there weren't for the previous Socialist Party, it would be free by 2013, we wouldn't be paying another 1 billion euros. But what we're talking about! [[Applause]] Look, I think you, in particular, have a problem. And he just doesn't listen to his political boss. His political chief recently said in a statement that the Socialist Party was paying the price of doing follow-up in Madrid. And you're still wrong that you're wrong. You listen, 'cause I think you're right when your political boss says that. Listen to him, I'm telling him. Mr. Calvo said, "What would be politics without the BNG and Ana Pontón?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I see you're very worried about BNG and Ana Pontón. But they are calm, that the BNG is stronger than ever, stronger than ever, safer than ever and more committed to this country than ever. [[Applause]] So, calm down. What would happen in the Welsh politics without the BNG and Ana Pontón, among other things, is that there would not be up to three agreements in this Parliament about AP-9, which were written in fists and letters by the BNG and which were then opened to the other political groups. [[Applause]] And what would happen in the Welsh politics without the BNG and without Ana Pontón is that there would be no historical discount on the beaches, which was, at any cost, negotiated by the BNG. And this was recognized by Mr. Pedro Sánchez himself when he made the report of compliance with the agreements. [[Applause]] He just said it! Shall we amend Mr. Sanchez's plan? It seems he wants to amend the Socialist Party. Anyway...! Look, what you came to do here, Mr. Calvo, was a triller game talking about what justified the twenty-five-year extension was to make the connection with Ferrol. Look, that connection was already planned in the state budgets, and you took it out of the state budgets and went to a multi-million-dollar profit of EUR 1,500 million for a dealership. Was that the cost I had made that connection? Couldn't it be done with state funds or what? What are we talking about? There was no need to do that. This initiative is totally timely. Why is it timely? Because we are within two months when the Government of the State has to respond to this requirement from the European Commission, and therefore it makes all the sense, it is fully justified, that the German Parliament has decided to transfer its opinion to the Central Government and to tell it that we understand that this extension has been granted irregularly and that this concession has to be cancelled, and that it must therefore be ensured that these fees are eliminated. We didn't ask for any privileges for Galicia, we didn't ask for any favors. We ask exactly what is being done with other highways that are co-ethnic with AP-9 and are being rescued by the state, which have been free since 2019, 2020 and 2021. We want the same deal. Or we want, for example, to do the same thing that was done with those ruined Madrid and other highways -- up to eight -- which were rescued by the Central Government in 2017, with Mr. Rajoy, paying 4,000 million euros, 4,000 million euros! We want justice, we want the same deal, we want the same for Galicia. And I'm done. Look, here's something very clear, you have to choose. These initiatives have to be positioned, to choose clearly whether we are on the side of Galicia's interests, people who have been defrauded and harmed by AP-9's beaches, or if we put on the Madrid sweater, the central government of turn. You have to decide, you have to choose whether you're on Galicia's side or whether you're on the side of the concessionaire and the central government of Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u77	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal by G. P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to reverse the public system of ownership and management of the land transport service and the improvement of the conditions of its staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u78	No amendments were tabled. To formulate this non-law proposition Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u79	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. To talk about ambulances -- and since we're in the most interesting and exciting parliamentary period of budgets, which takes us all down the street of joy and emotion -- let me start this debate with a question: Galicia's board doesn't know how much money it spends a year on paying ambulances. You don't know this year, I didn't know the previous year, I didn't know the previous year, I didn't know the previous year... He never knows. Not at the beginning, but he doesn't know it at the end. I'd ask them to try and find out. They choose the year, any year, and try to figure out how much they spend on paying ambulances to Galician Union. It's absolutely impossible. We know that this year's budget declines in primary care -- very smart, it looks like nothing matters -- or that they go up to paying Sergas priests -- it must be that they're more important than primary care -- but we don't know how much you're going to spend on ambulances. We don't know this year or any. Why? Because it's probably one of the darkest and strangest spaces that exists in the budget of the Health Council -- for others already specialists has the Holy Church, some of them paid by Sergas --. From this I think it's reasonable to think that we have a problem with the model. And it's seen that the ambulance system didn't work because it was a purely concessionized system -- that as a concessionaire it has little, it basically has to deliver and shake a problem from above --. And we're proposing -- not the first time, but we're going to try to give this debate as often as necessary -- is to bring a proposal, which is to try to understand that we need to reformulate our way of managing the health transport system. And that's why we propose the reversal. Look, this is a system that is especially supported by professionals, who do exceptional, unpaid work. I'm sure anyone at one time had any need to know a health care professional, especially the urgent one -- which is always sad and difficult but often happens -- knows the ability to work, the agility to manage the risk, the ability to succeed, and the human management that they do in a very difficult scenario. But they think those workers and workers who care for very difficult situations are being abused at work and with the convolence and approval of the Galician Union. They think it's the ones who are holding a system with Leonine working conditions. And this is mainly because the Union is neglecting its work. Look, there are some strange elements in this ambulance process in the last decade. We could go almost any time, but we'll put ourselves in the last decade. By remembering some -- and I know that this is some of the comrades and comrades of this Plenary know it because I've told it sometimes, because, as there are young people, you always take advantage of it to tell the same stories over and over again -- in Galicia not long ago an ambulance contest was reported that made the Unity of Galicia because it was granted to a company after some job demands. He made a contest and he was granted. But there was a complaint for the case. Based on what? Based on what days before the nail was known -- which curiously changed the technical conditions and even the requirements of labeling the ambulances -- there were new ambulances already labelled with the new technical conditions and exactly as requested in the nail, before the prayers came out. More than 120 million euros!, eh!, that wasn't a four-gominola nail, chute nail. No, they were ambulances. It was over 120 million euros. And they were stored waiting for a nail to come out when they had all the labelation -- even from Sergas, someone from Sergas has to pass the logo so they can be labeled --. We're going to go over that the company that won was owned by a member of the People's Party, which surely was the chance, as it said (...), the chance. [[Intelligible.]] From there one could say it was a strange thing. What happened? That Junta kept hiring with the same company -- good habits and tradition don't have to lose them, like hiring with home people even if there's a judicial problem in the middle --. There were reports of irregularities, professionals who......professionals who went to the past ambulances... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Thank you, President. The ambulances were past weight, out of the technical characteristics, unable to meet, because, given the corresponding technical characteristics they buy and the weights they carried the ambulances, over months and years passed the ambulances loaded too, with resources they were already out of the market, but as no one bought them new material they would go with old material. There were work problems of professionals who were failing to take the breaks. They think some of the people who were driving ambulances and taking care of urgent situations, they passed twelve, fourteen, sixteen, twenty-four and thirty-two hours in shifts because there's not enough staff. They think there are fearsome casualties in the granting of ambulances that require that the board then have to pay whatever is asked because, if not, it's out of ambulances to cover. And this is a problem of this model, a problem, in addition, that has an approaching opacity. And it's, as I told you at the beginning, that it's impossible to know -- and this is very striking -- how much Joine spends on ambulances. It's impossible. There's no such data. This Friday we have the health counsel's presence, I'll ask him and, as we've already told him now, see if Friday is able to tell me. I bet you won't tell me, because it's impossible to know. Probably not even the counselor could know. Some of the results of this, the low number of ambulances, the oversized efforts of professionals, the insufficient resources, are results that end up with fatal problems. They're -- you can verify -- problems that our group, on some occasions, has made some complaints, when the situations were very clear. On other occasions not, because in health there are situations where fatal results cannot be avoided. Some of them, on the other hand, you don't know if you can avoid them, and others are hard to work from a political point of view -- or from our point of view you shouldn't --. But in any case, it's not worth saying there's nothing to think about. There's a lot to think about, when there are cases -- the Road, Dozón, Celanova, Vigo -- many cases, in which there are problems to clarify whether they were really a resource or assistance problem. And this is the problem that the economic criterion prevails over the health criterion. For Together ambulances are -- forgive me the expression -- a brown one. Then get rid of the matter, pull it out, make a contest and give it to those who put the lowest price -- literally --. It's not a question of health resources, who's planning better, who's offering a better assistance map, but who's putting the lowest price. And, of course, in health the lowest price is a tool that sometimes has some complication. I'm sure they're able to reason. And so we have problems, such as the lack of resources or even poor distribution. For example, by accumulation of people, of population volume, in some territory, and how the trick they did with the Salnés ambulance, which seemed to be and is not. Or, for example, some who have difficulties with a matter of territorial distances -- in the 10th district, in the Navy or Ortegal -- where there are not enough ambulances. All the professionals who can consult, everyone will say the same thing, everyone! -- without exception, probably --. We talk here many times and we always say that we must listen to professionals. There are some who say the same thing. The system does not work. It's a deep, dark well. And we're making a proposal, which is that we're starting to reverse this system. Turning it down the easiest way for now -- easy between quotes --. It's understood that it's difficult, yes, but it's not a reversal -- which we propose -- from today to tomorrow, because it's not possible. We're aware that it's not possible to reverse a system that takes about 200 million euros a year -- no one knows about it, but, about, that's where the system should go at least --. So it's hard to make that reversal completely. But if we propose it for some kind of health transport, for example, for the programmed -- that is, for those visits, those attendances, for people who take themselves to make recovery, to go to scheduled appointments, the one that can be anticipated earlier and which is easier to organize, which requires less professional resources --. This is where we can do it now, we can turn it into the public system, so that we can prove that the public system is capable of functioning. The concession system can work on some programs, sure. But in this one it's shown that it's not, therefore, what we're thinking is that the public system assumes it. It doesn't mean we just want to take on that part, the programmed one. In urgent health care, more complex than organizing, more difficult resources, more volume, is also necessary. So let's say that must be studied to plan it. We want it to be done, we bet on it, but we are aware that it is more difficult, because we also need to reconsider everything that happens to the professionals who are now working on these services, which are obviously not officials but we can help them conveniently. And in addition, we ask the Board to at least mediate and be able to tell their companies -- and I say "yours" with some irony -- that they work to help professionals, that they don't have them abused literally; because they're our health care also, they're not our health only those who are part of Sergas, but those who work in the Sergas environment, as well as the health care technicians who are working in the ambulance environment. So we make this proposal and you will say, "This is an occurrence of the PSdEG." Balearic is doing, Extremadura is on that path, Navarra is on that path, Rioxa is on that path, Canaryes is on that path. Surely you are able to understand that we say all the governments of the autonomous communities that share an ideological criterion. But yet we will be able to observe that there, which is being quite successful, may be teaching us the way to do something that we here in Galicia could do. With this idea, which we consider sensible and whose numbers we have and we can share with all groups, we make this proposal to be able to debate about it with the intention that they can provide some ideas and among all build a possible solution. So far nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u80	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u81	Good afternoon. BNG has already defended from this rostrum on several occasions the need to directly provide the land health transport service to Galicia's board. We have done so because we are of course very clear that within the health system, the terrestrial health transport service of patients, both urgent and programmed, has an essential role to play. It's not a separate piece, nor can it be understood as two unrelated elements to each other, but rather they must be perfectly inserted into the same system and have the resources and staff needed to provide quality health care. But reality isn't that. We see that the health transport service is fundamental and is being subject to ongoing problems over the years. And that is why we have put forward multiple initiatives here in Parliament concerning the situation of this service, both in terms of the lack of existing resources -- such as the lack of technical resources, lack of vehicles or lack of personnel -- as with regard to deficiencies in the provision or employment situation of workers and workers. Because, as I say, it should be a priority object for the Galician Union, for the People's Party, but reality goes in the opposite direction: it opts for a management model that commercializes health and means cuts in the benefit, and year after year, competition after competition, does not solve the basic problems. And so in Galicia we have a low-quality ground health transport service -- because it's soft in terminology --. Let's leave it there, say low quality. The People's Party has been deteriorating the service with all the decisions it has made, so that complaints of irregularities of this service are more than usual. And for years now, it's been producing a whole chain of non-compliances that affect, as I said, the operation of the ambulance service, the workers and, therefore, the quality of care it lends. There are complaints of work intrusion. He's been reported active and passively by the professionals and technicians of this service. There is work intrusion in the sense that this service is provided by people who do not have the necessary titration or certification to lend it; a question raised, carried out, by ambulance companies most consented to by the Galician Board, which does not verify that the personnel working in this transport have this title. There are complaints about the deficiencies and deficiencies of the companies Sergas himself, 061, subcontracted in the face of the shortage of devices and personnel on his own network that he has hired, which is outsourced. They are hired with companies that have not submitted to any tenders and therefore have not passed any checks at all. And there are many findings that they do not comply with those established in the existing legislation, the typeology of vehicles or the technical conditions that have to have the vehicles or the staffing of personnel that these vehicles have to have. Therefore, it is not few times that it has been reported that this situation leads to poor care for patients, with the possibility -- not remote but real -- of fatal outcomes. The last case we had in Vigo just over a month ago, when Joseph Manuel, a patient who was transferred to one of these ambulances who had not gone through any invitations at all, who had no qualifications to provide on-the-road health care, or much less, and in which only he went with a driver who could not provide the health care he needed, died in the ambulance himself without that attention. I insist, as we said when we brought the matter here to Parliament, an accident is something irremediable that can indeed happen. But when you don't have the necessary measures to prevent it from happening, it's not an accident, it's negligence and consent on the part of the board. And that's what you're doing systematically with the ambulance service. But there were also problems with ambulances for lack, in this case, ambulances: a dead person on the Road, a dead person on Dozon. [[Applause]] And many other problems, such as the late arrivals of ambulances to care for people. There are complaints about the working conditions and the wages of the people working in this service, because they are continually subject to lower education, and then the companies want these lower education to fall on the back of the workers and workers because they are forced into more and more working conditions by demanding them because there are fewer professionals and there is a very important increase in the services to be provided. There are complaints about the service's deterioration. In many cases the hygienic-sanitary conditions of vehicles are not met, there is a lack of cleaning, disinfection, poor bases, equipment and work materials that often fail. Protection materials and other materials are not provided to workers and workers by companies. There are complaints in the recruitment and prosecutions, which the BNG brought here to this Parliament. There are allegations of adjudication to companies that were preceded by irregularities and convictions in other autonomous communities, of what was warned in this Parliament by the People's Party, which made deaf hearings because, among other things, in front of those companies that were subjected to adjudication there were people clearly linked to the People's Party -- ex MPs or senior positions of the People's Party --. The Welsh People's Party and the Galician Union have made deaf ears to adjudications that were soon to the detriment of the provision of the service, with the terrible consequences that we all know. Therefore, they are irregularities which are the responsibility of companies, of course, but in many cases, essentially, of the Administration, mainly of the Galician Union, because it is familiar, because these complaints were transferred to it in time and form by workers and workers, because they were made in judicial offices or because they were made in this Parliament. And the Galician Union and the People's Party did what they did was look the other way and act like they weren't going with them. Therefore, the BNG considers that there is indeed a need for another direction. We have also put forward initiatives to call for solutions to these problems, and we find ourselves with the People's Party Wall always in this Parliament; just as we have put forward initiatives here in Parliament for the disillusionment and disregard that the Union shows continuously for the professionals working in this service. We had to do it during the pandemic because they left these professionals left behind -- the Health Council, the Sergas and the 061 -- without making it easy for them, nor worried they had it, the protection material, and not worried they did the tests to detect possible infections. We're presenting initiatives last week because you've returned to Junta, Sergas, excluding professionals who perform your service in the land health transport of priority influenza vaccination, even though they're in constant and permanent contact with multiple patients because they act with them by doing all kinds of techniques, from oxygen therapy to resuscitations, driving or placing protections. And despite that, the People's Party doesn't want to give the same protection as the health care staff. That's why the BNG also insistently demands that they have the consideration of health care personnel, because they do a health function. We therefore believe that the situation of the ground health transport service is of historical deficit. There is a historical deficit in service collapse due to lack of vehicles and human equipment, emergency deficits -- and we know that in emergencies the time factor is critical to emergency care --, programmed deficit, which, as a result of lack of vehicles, there are a lot of delays in the transfer of patients to test or go to rehabilitation or, for example, dialysis, which is a very important problem for patients. And, therefore, just as in the rest of health, we need a change of course and we need public health and quality, we believe that the ground health transport service, as an essential service that is, must be perfectly integrated into the health system. And that's why we consider -- just like we've already done and demanded on other occasions -- that it must be lent directly by the public health system. We need to recover this outsourcing that has been carried out and therefore, even if this is not the maximum initiative -- or with other considerations -- that has been presented by the BNG and that we will also bring the debate in the future, we will support this initiative that the Socialist Party is presenting today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u83	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. This same year, 2021 has just examined the seven health tenders of the Galego Health Service for the public transport contract, a contract which has undergone an important improvement in the previous situation, an improvement in the number of vehicles, their characteristics and also safety characteristics. I don't know if you know this contract. Mrs. Prado, you're missing the certainty -- I imagine from ignorance, even though I have my doubts --. But, look, as a result of these tenders, the health transport service in our community has experienced an important improvement in the previous situation. The number of vehicles has increased as well as their characteristics and staffing in all cases; and in addition to the obligation to comply with the regulations laid down both in Royal Decree 836/2012 of 25 May, so the technical characteristics, health equipment and the staffing of road transport vehicles, as well as in Decree 52/2015 of 5 March, so the health transport is regulated in our autonomous community of Galicia. Furthermore, in addition, this call was introduced and evaluated, as a point-of-point improvement criterion for adjudication, the incorporation of a series of features that make driving safer. I'm referring to technological improvements such as the warning of involuntary rail change, the control of dead angles, the automatic change, as well as the incorporation of electric chairs that provide greater autonomy and favor their mobility -- all of this always focused on improving the safety of their occupants --. With regard to staff, in accordance with Article 4 of Royal Decree 836/2012, vehicles intended for the provision of road health services shall be scrupulously equipped with the minimum staff provided for in Annex 2 to Decree 52/2015 of 5 March 2015. They're missing the truth in what they say, they're totally missing the truth. One of the most outstanding improvements was the increase in hourly availability in all areas of health, both in the number of vehicles and in staff; all in order to have greater care coverage. Thus, in all health areas, greater coverage is established in the availability of vehicles, both in twenty-four, sixteen, fourteen or twelve hours, according to the needs of these areas. In addition, in order to ensure compliance with the requirement in the contract, from the Galego Health Service there is a follow-up of vehicles, equipment, personnel and actions by means of a non-emergency health transport software, a compliance control system by companies implementing the health inspection plans of the Health Council and the follow-up commissions established in each of the contracts. And non-compliance would give rise to possible administrative penalties, as well as greater control of activity by means of a series of quality criteria focused on patients' transfers. It is also important to point out that, in relation to staff serving in law firms, they have entered into contracts, such as social clauses, among other things, the following working conditions: meet during the performance of the contract with the conditions laid down in the collective agreement, provide workers with stable quality work, protect them from accidents and occupational risks by ensuring protection and prevention measures and providing the provision of necessary equipment, and promote the conditions of family and labour reconciliation and gender equality. And it includes as a cause of contract resolution the proven vulnerability of workers' working rights -- especially parental and maternity rights, whether directly or through coercion --. Ladies and gentlemen, the important improvements that have been incorporated through the Joint Initiative are being tested in the new contracts they signed during this year. Secondly, we have to say that in Galicia, as you know, 061 is responsible for coordination and management of parts of public transport. In this sense it is important to say and point out that the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia 061, as responsible for the coordination and management of the extra-hospital health transport of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, conducts ongoing studies to structure the urgent health transport network of Galicia. These studies include both demographic variations and variations in health demands, distances to health centres and the needs and activities in different districts and municipalities in order to ensure the accessibility, fairness, efficiency and sustainability of urgent health care of the highest quality in the whole of the population of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, there is control and management, and management, gentlemen, includes coordination centres. We're talking about 061, which has planning, which is a service that plans and has protocols -- protocols in order to optimize healthcare --. And to ensure compliance with the requirements in contracts, since Public Foundation 061, vehicles, materials, personnel and performances are monitored. This leads to periodic and also extraordinary inspections, so that, in case of deficiencies, these are communicated to the adjudicatory companies for their amendment. And the failure to resolve these shortcomings leads to the imposition of administrative penalties. Mr. Torrado, look, as a result of the high level of exigencies of 061 and the close supervision are the good ratings achieved in the satisfaction surveys of users of this transport service, in which the overall satisfaction of users of a basic life support unit is 93% -- a percentage that increases to 94.5% when they are attended by an advanced life support unit --. This shows that Galicia's urgent health transport network 061 meets -- and does so with a lot -- with the expectations of users. The reality, Mr. Torrado and Mrs. Prado, is very different from what you tell. His speech doesn't correspond to anything about the reality we're living in Galicia. And I don't understand what the problem is. Why is that insistence on criticizing something that works well? It's only been months since the last bid -- which has improved --. And it's also highly valued by users and workers. We honestly don't really understand what they're asking for. For urgent transport they ask for a previous report, for the non-emergency they no longer ask for anything, only it is managed directly. They're just interested -- I don't know why -- reversion to the public. But, of course, they're only interested in Galicia, because the reality is that in most communities governed by their party they run concerts. You put me as an example of the Balearic Islands, and I bring you here this: "The ambulances in the hands of the Balearic Government are a cost of more than 6 million euros in two years." [[Mr. Amigo Díaz reads a document.]] So I don't know if this is what you want for our community, that overcost. Of course, with us it doesn't contain for this. And we can even talk to them, if it seems to them, about something closer that happens here, in Compostela, with the mayor. You may ask the socialist mayor Bugallo what he thinks about the management of the crane and the municipalized ORA, who inherited from the previous government. You just see the needle in the alien eye, but where they rule, both the Block and the PSOE -- well in solitary, well in coalition -- they have no problem using private management -- of a model that you call improperly privatization and that's only right, it's all right, when the governments on the left -- do it. And unfortunately, the management of health transport in Galicia is a successful model of many years of continuous work and effort, which has contrasted a good functioning, with quality assurances and which is in constant review and supervision so that it will continue to provide quality service to users who need to use this transport. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u85	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the support shown by the BNG. We knew and understood the nuances about the initiative. We probably share a little bit of the axis that channels the idea, but we'll probably have nuances when we run it. But we thank him, of course, and some of the issues raised by BNG, which can always lead to improving the situation, can really be very interesting; so, we thank you for the tone and the characteristics. In addition, I particularly thank you, Mrs Prado, for being the only one who spoke about the initiative. Because that way, except for the last minute, I didn't see much about it. But, well, I'm going to try, however, to pose something, in case I'm able to make it seem like we were a lot in the debate. There are two things about the model itself. It's not about reading the regulations, because that's what we can all do -- I probably have more difficulties than the others -- the question is that they're being complied with and that they're efficient and effective -- that's not the same, even though it looks like it, but it's not the same --. We particularly disagree on one thing with Mrs. Friend: she says it's done and we think it's not, we think it's obvious not, because the workers say it's not. When a worker says something that he likes the People's Party, you have to listen to it. When you don't say what you like, the workers don't exist. Well, we could try to have a criterion. You know it would be something more interesting, but ultimately, you'd lose a bit of a joke about the debate as well. In fact, I also sometimes ask a little of that question. But that if you meet would be fine, because it's not fulfilled, the reality is that it's not fulfilled. For example, as far as addictions are concerned, no one told me how much the system costs. But the problem is that it's impossible, because, after the adjudications, all, absolutely everything, you have to change them and enlarge them. Why? Because when bids are made, companies run down, and then they start asking for an increase. And there's a time when it's impossible to increase. I don't say it anymore, says the Board of Auditors every year. The system is not that it's cheaper. You set a good example for me, Mrs. Friend. The truth is, it was very interesting. He said, "You're asking for something in your communities not done, for example in Balearic Islands." And he criticized me for doing it. He says, "You don't do it," and he automatically pulls a cut from a place where they do. Well, I've already mentioned that Extremadura is on the way, that Canarias is in this, that La Rioxa is in this, that Navarra is in this. They must be few. We know that Spain is very big, but the same is that, as Spain is only Madrid, and in Madrid it is not done... but, well, in any case, in Balearics, in deep whales, it must also be done. And you criticize this, you say there's a 6 million-dollar overrun. I think you mentioned that news. Since we don't know how much it costs in Galicia, we're going to put a lover. I think 190 or 187.6 was the last contest. We're not going to add the sub-recosts they have later when companies ask for more. With €190 million, turn it over to the public system, make the system manage from the public, that the criterion becomes health care and not economic, make up for €6 million of investment? We defend that yes, because defending that it does not compensate is an economical criterion. We don't share this. Six million euros is not too much if it costs to differentiate the system granted by 190 from that which is public by 196. For two things: first because having management from the public system facilitates the ability of decisions linked to the system; second because the quality of work is clearly higher; and third because we prevent companies from coming after asking for more money, which is not taken into account. The real overcost is really in Galicia, which is where that increases brutally. Six million euros isn't an excessive amount for this, though I say so it looks like it's very big. So that's what we have to do, because it has to do with it. For you six million euros more is a huge overcost and that's why we can't turn it back to the public. Because in 200 million it doesn't seem like an excessive cost, if that's the overcost, it doesn't look like an excessive cost. That's our reference. You know, besides, what's going on? That I know that news. Do you know who warned you of that and who made that alarm -- because it didn't give you time to read it all --? The former concessionaire company, which warned that there was a problem, that there was a six million surplus. He failed to add, and I didn't get them. Of course, the company that didn't take the concession because it complained that it didn't charge six million euros anymore. Yeah, it's normal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We defend that model. So you made me a critique of something we shared. And he also made his difference: six million euros more, i.e. less than three percent about the current budget, that's what you consider sufficient not to revert to the public. And we think it's a sufficient increase. If that's the difference...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u87	...I think it's pretty clear what each one's model is. You bet you're giving it to a company of friends and we bet you're returning it to the public system. And it seems to us that this is not an excessive cost.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia to strengthen the Public Employment Service and promote active employment policies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u89	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta, speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of you. Look, by the end of summer, it was again destroyed jobs in Galicia. Specifically this time there were 5,400 fewer people. Unemployment increases by 1,18 % -- specifically by 1,790 people --. The evolution marked by the end of the summer season and the eventual recruitments of this epoch once again show the strong precariousness, temporality and seasonality of the Greek labour market, which has already come from the early era. The total number of unemployed people in Galicia in September is 153,054. On the other hand, this evolution is contrary to what happens in the rest of the state, where unemployment falls by 2.28 %, in particular 76,113 people, with an increase in membership of social security of 57,387. As for the younger -- we're talking about children under 25 -- unemployment rises in a very high level of charges, at 10.8%, above the rest of the ages. By sex unemployment increases more heavily among women -- 1.6 per cent -- and 0.6 per cent among men. Here it is shown how women bear a higher degree of tertiaryization in their occupation, which suffer more seasonality and precariousness. In structural terms, women account for 59.2% of the total unemployment in Galicia -- 90,678 unemployed women versus 62,376 men --. By sector, unemployment increases in the service sector. In terms of recruitment -- and this is a very relevant data to analyze unemployment in our community --, 8.71% of contracts made were undefined; everything else is temporary. Inter-annually -- on paper -- unemployment drops in both contexts in a similar way: 13.32% in Galicia and 13.73% in the state. But to make a real comparison, we would have to analyze the reductions for non-renewal of the demand for employment of the card -- which we know colloquially as a employment applicant card -- which is produced in Galicia and the rest of the state; which we will have to do throughout this intervention and month by month to unravel the lies of the Government of Galicia on employment, as well as those sent by its Director General for Training and Placement from January to July -- all the first half of the year -- and then install them to adopt a resolution that once again calls upon the Galician Board for a better human resource allocation and materials from the Galician Public Employment Service to be processed in a prudential time, in order to become a reality at the point of company support to apply for employees suitable for their recruitment needs, and to put in place procedures for the Public Employment Service of Galicia to process the same offers as the state average. [[Applause]] Even so, they must promote active employment policies. They are necessary to end the high unemployment figures, especially in women, Thursdays and long-term unemployed, and with the precariousness that structurally reigns in our labour market. We must encourage indefinite recruitment by linking these incentives to a rate of stability agreed within the social dialogue, as well as encouraging indefinite remittance contracts without obviating a plan to support self-employed people -- but a real plan --. These are specific requests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; measures that contribute to the creation of a stable labour market in Galicia and to the reduction in the loss of active population that is taking place year after year in our community. It's a situation from which unions are alerted year after year, but which you don't pay much attention to. You're more interested in falsifying reality. So let's analyze with data the false propaganda of Feijóo and the idea of the miracle in his management, from which he boasted that Galicia was leading the fall of unemployment in Spain until September -- when they could no longer hide the trap --. The directors of the various public employment services agreed to suspend the discharges for non-renewal of the demand for employment while the pandemic lasted by the coward-19 and to establish a system for automatic renewal of demands. This automatic demand renewal system was in force until July 1, 2021. But the Employment Council decided unilaterally not to continue in January with the automatic renewal of demand. As a first result, in Galicia there is a cause of casualties which, except in Basquedi, does not exist in the rest of the public employment services of the autonomous communities. There's a second circumstance that they use to make these traps. When the data on the progress of unemployment is released, which is the data that is commented on in the press as a whole, it is unknown what the causes of the drop are. This prevents one from knowing whether there was disloyalty or not, because they really think they're low for placement, and it's not. Let's talk about the January of this year. There were 18,208 demands that were dropped for non-renewal, not for placement. But in the press release accompanying the press release of director Zeltia Lado, he said, "Today he has valued the data of registered unemployment, which only descends in Balearics and the Greek community in the comparative monthly, while the rest of the state increases." What he doesn't say is that in January 54.9 percent of the low demand produced are caused by this non-renewal of demand. If we eliminated these non-renewal reductions, the demand for unoccupied would increase by 6.6% over the previous month, when the average increase in the state was 3.6%. This statement, being aware of the use of non-renewal as a cause of casualties, breaking the agreement with the other autonomous communities, I believe it is an indignity of a vantaxist's own. This attitude becomes a strong unconsciousness if we note that it eliminates automatic renewal just in the month when the incidence of cases was higher. [[Applause]] It was January, remember. In January there were 32,052 new infections. They remember we were under very alarming restrictions. In February the same thing happened: 18,186 demands that were dropped by non-renewal. In February there are 30,952 casualties, of which 59,4% are for non-renewal and account for 9.1% of all applicants. In March, the same is true: 5,732 claims that were dropped due to non-renewal. And the director general in the press release again says, "Today, it highlights the reduction in unemployment from February to 2.3%...", etc. And it's also compared to the state. The German Government does not agree that the unemployed who want to renew their demand have to go to the employment office in order to maintain this advantage in relation to other communities. They don't care that unemployed people are at risk when they come to the job office. [[Applause]] The same thing happens in April: 29,201 demands that have been dropped by non-renewal. And another press release: "Galicia creates jobs and leads the fall of unemployment on an annual and monthly level. The Director General of Training highlighted today that the German labour market was resisting cowardice, as unemployment falls on an annual and monthly level." Three out of every four casualties that take place that month are for not renewing demand, for not going to the employment offices, another demonstration of the Director General's advantage. Maintaining the same causes of dropout as other communities, instead of leading the drop in unemployment would be the community where unemployment grew the most that month. In May more of the same thing happens. In short, in the first six months of the year, nothing more and nothing less than 88,514 unoccupied plaintiffs, and not because they took up a job but because they didn't do automatic renewal -- as had been agreed among all autonomous communities --. He insists again on the press release in which Galicia is the only community in which unemployment descends for the sixth consecutive month: "The Director General, Zeltia Lado, today rated the unemployment data recorded, highlighting that unemployment has dropped and Galicia has recorded the highest percentage decrease in the annual reading of unemployment in the historical data series." Well, in September all communities, except Cantabria and the Valencian Community, eliminated automatic renewal. Mrs. Lado in this case has been without advantage, and in Galicia the demand for non-busy is rising by 1.3% compared to the decrease in the average state by 2.3%. Look at the difference when you don't make those traps! Once again, we see how the PP can only achieve apparent good results...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u92	... -- finished, Mr. President -- with lies and vantaxism. When all communities are in a similar situation, their results are the worst in the state. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Mr Pérez López has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u94	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Although this initiative of the PSOE Parliamentary Group is about improving the human and material resources of the employment offices as well as on articulating active employment policies with more specific objectives, we cannot object -- as has already been observed in the presentation of the defense of the initiative -- which logically talk about the unemployment data of September. And indeed, the unemployment data of September are not positive for Galicia. On the contrary, it's a very bad news. Although the absolute data of the last few months seemed to improve slightly what had been done in the rest of the Spanish State, the arrival of September shows a German labour market marked by seasonality, temporality and dependence on the service sector. Because it was the end of the summer and with it were the temporary contracts formalized by the service sector to strengthen business in the peaks of activity that occurred in the summer campaign, this situation which is not new and which repeats itself in September year after year. Once again it is confirmed that the German labour market has structural and chronic problems. There is a worrying dependency on seasonal cycles, a predominance of temporary and partial recruitment, and an excessive dependence on the service sector. And so this data from September has been found, increasing the number of unemployed and unemployed in the amount of 1,790 people -- reaching a total of 153,043 --. While in the middle of the Spanish state, the number of people stopped at 2.28%, Galicia increased by 1.18%. I suppose the PP Parliamentary Group will have to vary what is its preferred argument, that compounded argumentation of whom it is only valued and embodiment compared to the worst argument. We've already told him more than once: that path is not the right one and it does not solve the structural evals of the German labour market. They look for effectiveness and they don't just remain in an attempt to justify it, because regardless of the monthly changes in the number of unemployed, there are constants that repeat not only every month but year after year. By analyzing the unemployment data by sex, in September we find ourselves once again the women who are the big harmed. Female unemployment is growing to almost triple the increase among male workers, with the aggravating that they are today the most affected by ERTE, which means their re-entry into the labour market will be much more complicated. There's a fall in membership this month in Galicia -- in September -- as it rises at the state level. And the fact that only 8.7% of the contracts entered into -- as the spokesperson has already announced in this case of the People's Party -- are in existing indefinite procurement means that it is only done to confirm the bad situation of the German labour market. This confirms that the policies implemented by the Galician Union in recent years have not been able to change these structural evals. We still have a labour market characterized by temporality and partiality, where women continue to be the most punished collective. And the announcements of corrective measures by the German Government since the Council of Employment and Equality are no longer more than that, simple announcements. Since the creation of a self-employment council -- a year ago -- these structural evals have not been cut short, effective women-oriented and youth-oriented corrective measures have not been taken, nor have the announcements about insertion and training for exactly a year ago were crystallized by the new advisor. For all this, we have been taking the Commission since the BNG a few months ago, an initiative in which we are calling for the implementation of a women's employment plan focused on the re-integration of women expelled from the labour market and which appear as inactive by the consequences of the coward-19. We also call on us to implement a employment plan for youth with the aim of breaking up with this precarious structural temporality that characterizes this collective. And, within the active employment policies, we call for the implementation of guidance, employment and training programmes specifically directed to long-term ERTE workers -- an initiative that was banned by the People's Party --. At the BNG we understand that it is necessary to make a constant, always current, X-ray of the labour market in order to adopt effective measures, an honest analysis of reality, and a subsequent response adapted to the detected problem, which is exactly what the PP does, which continues to apply the same continuistic lines from the Employment Council. That is why we have agreed on many aspects of the motion by the PSOE Parliamentary Group, which, from a general perspective, once again calls on the Joint Committee to make a comprehensive change to the functioning of public employment services. And we insist again that it is essential to create a category of "orientator" in the Galician Union, so that these guides have specific training and knowledge in the field of work orientation, which is not happening today. Work guidance programs in collaboration with entities also need to be improved, because they have proven to be very weak, since the guides of these entities also work in precarious ways, which makes their work difficult. The lack of effectiveness of these programs, corroborated by the very low number of placements, is aware of Galician Union, which has been talking about making changes and updating them for years. What to say about custom itineraries of insertion! A pretty phrase, but the problem lies in having a custom insertion itinerary implies preference to be able to access a certain course, and little more. The problem is that there is no continuity of that insertion route. But one of the most bloody problems is the disconnection between the labour market and employment services. Companies don't believe in the Public Employment Service, because when they resort to it, most of the time candidates don't have the right and required profile by the company. In addition, the counseling on which this service depends lacks anticipation, something fundamental to which it governs. With the current system, they were unable to anticipate, for example, the need for qualified personnel for the construction or transport sector, a reality that has been announced by the provincial federations for many months. And it should be remembered that the objective of active employment policies is precisely to improve the qualification of the active population. For months now, in May of this year, the Employment Adviser spoke of "employment strategy", that in the medium term it would go through the modernization of the mediation and placement processes, analysing the needs of the business fabric -- so he said -- exactly what he also announced even before, in the month of September last year, in this same atrium. The problem is that many months have passed and that announced modernization of the system that responds to the needs of the business fabric is not enough. Times change the rhythm of vertigo. The pandemic has accelerated processes that will have a huge impact -- and they're already having it -- on the labour market. And one of these processes is digitization. If in the short term we don't improve the qualifications of our workers, we'll sink into precariousness and we'll still have to emigrate. Because the young gals and the young gales -- the ones we formed here in Galicia -- emigrate for lack of opportunity and generate wealth far from their land. And that's a reality. Everyone we're here -- I'm sure that all of us here -- we have friends, family or acquaintances who have to look for a job abroad, or who are currently there. And that's an unquestionable fact. So in the debate of the nation's state we introduced as a motion for a resolution to promote a strategy of employment with the 2025 horizon for the creation of jobs linked to the public sector and to strategic and emerging economic sectors, to prioritize stable and quality employment, the socio-laboral integration of youth and women, the reversal of demographic decline and the reorientation and transformation of the Greek economy. That is why we set as priorities priorities of this strategy: the creation of employment in essential public services -- health, education and care -- ; new professional profiles for modernization and generational output in public administrations; the collection and the return of talent in knowledge development and technology transfer; a program for the generational output and transformation of the primary sector; the creation of a consortium for inclusive digit digit digitization -- we speak of training, literacy and digital updating of economic sectors, of pem and population at risk of digital exclusion; the capture and recovery of talent in knowledge development and technology transfer; the creation of a program for the generational output and transformation of the primary sector; the creation of a consortium for inclusive digitization; the creation of a consortium for teleworking of inclusive digitization from here; we talk about training, literacy and digital literacy and digital updating of technologies, of pemable people at risk of digital exclusion, of technology and technology -- the generation and technology transfer of knowledge and technology transfer of technology; and technology transfer of technology; and technology transfer of technologies; and technology; and the integration of the integration of women to them; and the integration of the integration of the integration of women; and of women in the technology of technology of technology of technology of technology; and of technology; and technology; and technology, in providing of technology; and of technology, in providing of the technology, in the technology; and technology and technology and technology management of the technology management of the technology management of the technology of technology of technology of the technology of the technology of the technology of the technology; and of the technology generation of the integration of the integration of the technology generation of the technology and technology and technology and technology and technology, and technology and technology and technology and technology and technology and technology generation of the integration of the technology and technology and technology and technology and technology and technology and technology and technology and technology and technology, and technology and technology and technology management of the technology, and technology, and technology, and technology, and technology, and technology, and technology management of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of women in women-related of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of the integration of women-related of the And you know what PP said to this proposal too? That I didn't admit it. I didn't admit it either. To solve a problem, the first thing to do is acknowledge it exists. That requires self-criticism, honest analysis and active employment policies adapted to new times. And unfortunately, in the P.P.'s government, they're not very friends with self-criticism, nor with honest analysis. What they are friends of is continuous policies that haven't solved in twelve years the structural problems of the Welsh labour market, continuing policies that don't make up the workers and the workers of Greece so they can access qualified jobs and allow them to get out of the precariousness and temporality that characterizes our labour market.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u96	The continuing policies of the twelve years of PP government have not worked. For all this, we will support the initiative of the PSOE Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u97	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Balseiro Orol has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Let me say my first words, especially in a debate on employment, are of solidarity and support for workers in our aluminium industry and in the marine clothing industry, they shine -- as they will understand, it's my country -- who are experiencing total uncertainty about their future; there is uncertainty that this attack on industrial Galicia is based on wrong political decisions, such as the very harmful energy strategy of the Government of Spain, or the so-called breaches of the Moncloa, such as the refusal by the Central Government, the Sepi, to the temporary intervention of Alcoa. And I'd ask them a question -- especially the Socialist Party -- : tell us what they're waiting for to intervene. If possible, since you have a replica, tell us in your replica. [[Applause]] For all this, you will understand that it is very complicated -- and above all it is surprising -- to hold a debate on employment with Greek socialists and nationalists. With the first, directly, because the Socialist Party destroys the Galician industry; and with the second -- that is, with the Galego Nationalist Block -- because they act as accomplices to this job destruction when they are unable to condition political pacts in councils and deputies to a solution for thousands of Galician families, or directly because they deceive us nationalists, as they did with the pact of Ana Pontón and Adriana Lastra to invest as president Pedro Sánchez in the exchange of solutions that he had no desire or interest in meeting -- until today they all have failed --. And in the meantime, any debate on employment that maintains these political formations -- that is, socialists and nationalists -- will be nothing more than a curtain of smoke so as not to mention the limited situation in which many of our companies and their Greek workers are located, of that rule of economic destruction and unemployment that the forces of the Bipartite leave behind them for not assuming their responsibilities. And in case this was little, at this perfect storm we added the disproportionate rise to the price of light. There are families who, thanks to a left-wing government, will know first-hand what it is to suffer from energy poverty, what you promised to fight. But above all the trades, the hospitality, the autonomouss, who look forward to the opportunities that represented the new normality and now are threatened with their possibility of recovery. And you solve it by playing the trick. They repeat to the satiety that only Junta has industry competences in our country. And I ask the following question to socialists and nationalists: what industrial policy can drive the German Government with an energy policy like the socialists, with the complicity of the Galician Nationalist Block, develop in this country? If possible, tell us. Leave you, gentlemen, to put sticks on the wheels. [[Strong murmurers.]] They pull out -- nationalists and socialists -- their hands from the Galician industry, because all they're doing is drowning in the future of thousands of Greek workers. [[Strong murmurers.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the People's Party we have no problem with maintaining a debate on employment or the necessary modernisation of employment offices on which the self-government depends. Among other reasons, because you know that this is a continuous process that the Board is already carrying out and that, as announced from this same forum in the debate of the state of Autonomy, it has planned to intensify it by improving all direct care services, both those directed at those seeking employment and the companies presenting offers. The renewal of employment demands is being carried out normally, making these procedures easier even through the 012 employment portal or even with a mobile application. But that's right, eliminating automatic renewal to prevent them from appearing as plaintiffs people with no interest in being unemployed. And an effort is being made to improve labour intermediation, adapting to a number of measures, in recent months, such as the labour protection service -- in contact with business fabric -- to advise, inform and capture job offers from companies, managers and business associations. [[Murmurs.]] Last May, the new virtual office was launched for companies. This web portal allows companies to reach their job offers easily and safely. A new supply request form has been created for assumptions that do not use virtual business office. And it will also be done in the field of training, because it is of no use to have thousands of unemployed people looking for employment if we are unable to adapt their training to the professional characteristics of the most demanding sectors in our country. They explained here that in the coming weeks the Government of Greece will lead a great deal of agreement with all the agents to shape the Welsh Agenda of Work Skills and Needs, Trade Unions and Employers' Organizations, Self-Governments, Professional Associations, Chambers of Commerce, Training Institutions and Universities. It is an employment pact for all to cross supply and demand and to be able to adapt training to the real needs of the labour market. And please check your numbers. Stop misdirecting the data or stay with only those who are most interested in it. In terms of employment in Galicia there is a reality that is unquestionable and that you cannot deny -- and, if not, you have the courage to prove, with what I'm going to say, if I'm lying --. I insist, there is an undeniable reality: Galicia today has less unemployment and more members of Social Security than before the pandemic. And these figures are not the exclusive merit of the German Government. [[Murmurs.]] We must recognize the collective work that made it possible to return to the path of recovery, a merit of those sectors that were able to grow despite the pandemic, such as the agri-food sector, such as the sea sector or the technology sector, but also of those that, after having been deeply affected, have reopened the business -- if you don't now force them to close because you can't deal with the bill of light, the lifting of taxes or the payment of fees --. And when they talk about strengthening employment policies, maybe what they'd have to do is look at and take an example from our autonomous community in Galicia. The general recovery of the economy, also of employment, is occurring in greater proportion here than on the national average. Overall recruitment is increasing by 16 %; indefinite recruitment by more than 22 %; and full-time recruitment also increases by almost 13 %. In Galicia there is a steady decline in people protected by ERTE. More than 94% of the workers who had to accommodate this figure have already left, figure -- that of the ERTE -- that would not exist if it wasn't for the labour reform that pushed the People's Party and that you now want to make it disappear. And please take note -- these are data that can be corroborated in public employment registers -- the unemployment rate is low in more than 57,600 people since the People's Party arrived in the Government. In April 2009 there were 210,662 unemployed. In September 2021, 153,000 unemployed. With the Bipartite, i.e., with the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, the unemployment rate was increasing, and now the unemployment rate is low. The last year of the two-party government: 50,900 unemployed -- they went up more than 31% --. The last year of the People's Party Government: 23.520 unemployed -- down more than 13% --. And it's true that in September the unemployment rate increased, it's true, as it goes historically every month of September. But for the same month last year it fell by more than 13%, so we're still at levels below twelve years ago. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u100	I'm done, Mr. President. In addition, we reached six months with an annual drop of registered unemployment. Frankly, I ask you one question: do you really, socialists and nationalists want to push action to strengthen employment service and active policies to reduce unemployment in this country? Putting them to you in the jobs is just like putting the fox in a henhouse taking care of the chickens, it's exactly the same talking about employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u102	Thank you, President. Mr. Balsairo, he's actually a master at throwing balloons out. Of course, it's been quite a few years in this, but I think you've talked about almost anything less than what you did on the initiative, which was to dismantle the unemployment data. And, of course, he didn't deny that payroll for non-renewal of employment demand was there month after month and that they were confused as if people found work. [[Applause]] First of all, we thank BNG for supporting this initiative. We fully agree with the fundamental role of labour guidance providers as professional work guides. Obviously, because it's not covering a type form, it's doing that insertion itinerary gradually. The People's Party has been saying for a long time that it's going to modernize the jobs, I've heard it in the previous legislation. But at the moment, we don't see it, nor does that Welsh agency. We agree, but it has nothing to do with strengthening the Public Employment Service of Galicia. The advisor already said that before the summer, he was going to present that great project in the hands of the unions. I hope so, but we've been waiting a long time for Feijóo's promises to be fulfilled, that never come -- at least in terms of employment --. You were talking about data, about unemployment. And I'm going to tell you then that, instead of talking about unemployment data, we're talking about effective occupation. And we're talking about the years of data -- from 2009 and the close of 2020, because we don't have the 2021 still on lockdown --. But in 2009 there were 1.15 million people in Galicia; and in 2020, 1.07 million people in Galicia. I think that's pretty clear. In twelve years the Government of Greece, supported by the PP, destroyed 81,200 jobs -- talking only about jobs --. And at this same time in Spain jobs were rising -- you know how many jobs, Mr. Balsairo? - 95,600. So contrast I stop with the occupied population. With regard to Thursdays -- that we are concerned about the PSdeG for young people and girls and what is going on in this period of employment -- in Galicia they provided services, between 16 and 34 years of age, namely 386,600. And by 2020, the last closed statistic we have, they worked 208,300 boys. Anyway, the figures I think they say everything. It's true, then -- and he wasn't able to refute that statement -- that the Director General of Training and Placement has been lying on each and every one of the press notes hung on the page and on the press rounds. I think this is a fraud, a fraud to the citizens of Galicia. And as such, the director should abandon such a great responsibility. I think in this case you're big. [[Applause]] The data used, the data I used in my intervention, which is not denied in this case by the spokesperson for the People's Party, are published in Sepe and contrasted by experts, and even the newspaper El País also echoed this situation. And he specifically said -- and I read textually -- : "73% of job-seekers' casualties in April were due to not asking for it after the Board suppressed automatic renewal. The explosion of the coronovirus in Spain led autonomous communities in 2020 to implement an automatic unemployment renewal system in their offices. In order to avoid contagion, job seekers were exempt from attending headquarters. At the beginning of 2021, when the pandemic recorded an uncontrolled rate of contagions in Galicia, the Union ordered the return to the traditional system and forced the arrest to be sealed in offices or by telematics. The decision came up with a relevant data: 73% of the users who stopped applying for employment in April in this community did so because they did not come to renew it, as follows from the data published by the Sepe." It also says: "The President of the Union has, however, not ceased to promote the idea of the economic miracle of his management, reiterating that Galicia is the Spanish community in which the unemployment has declined most during the first few months of this year. "It's been four months since 2021 and we already have an X-ray on how the labour market evolves in this community," said Feijóo, "with the highest drop in unemployment in the last year." Well, finally, more lies by Mr President on employment, which is one of the concerns you know is number one or two right now between the Galicians and the Galicians. [[Applause]] In any case, these people who haven't renewed the demand have lost their seniority, and it's very important because it affects them to resume RAI and set an order for access to active employment policies. And they should, by decency, recover that old age they had at that time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u104	I'm done, Mr. President. In relation to the initiative, they obviously vote against it, as they voted against and discarded our proposals on young employment, as they discarded our proposals on women's wage divide -- which is above the state average -- or the proposal for the recovery of territorial pacts. Because of course they don't care about employment, what they always care about is to blame the government of the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u105	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u106	And so things aren't done, because the competitions have them on you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. We move on to the last of the non-law propositions. Non-legislative proposal by G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Elena Candia López and 13 other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the work regulation file of the factory of Vestas, in Viveiro, and with the energy transition
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u108	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u109	Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u110	Teletype of Europe Press a few hours ago: "The first coal-powered ship for Endesan thermal in As Pontes will dock this Thursday in the port of Ferrol.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I regret that they remain unaware that the hasty closure of the bridge thermal power plant, by the Socialist Government, was a mistake, because the facts so believe. This is what we're going to talk about on this initiative, about how an erratic energy policy, about how a chaotic ecological transition is causing the closure of companies in Spain and also in Galicia, about the lack of trust that generates a government, the Government of Spain. Thank you, President. I want to begin my speech by showing the solidarity of the Members that we make up the People's Parliamentary Group with the Vesta workers in Viveiro, with those 115 families affected by the ERE; our solidarity, our support and the full cooperation of the Government of Greece, which we support as a majority parliamentary group of this chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the Vestas factory is the last victim of the socialist government's energy policy. The Ludense Marine plant specializes in the manufacture of aerogeors for terrestrial platforms, as well as control panels for marine turbines. At present, the factory is the main livelihood of 115 Greek families. The current energy policy of the Spanish Government, with record figures at the price of electricity, with an improvised, erratic energy transition, is causing mistrust and insecurity in the industrial fabric, and an ever longer list of companies are being forced to close or relocate their plants, outside of Spain, but outside of Spain -Alcoa, Alu Iberica, Siemens-Gamesa -, companies that are threatened their continuity by government decisions, such as the thermal power plant of the Bridges or the plant of Cence in Pontevedra. The case of Vestas is the last example of the consequences of socialist policies. The Gamesa company had to close its factory in Castela-León two years ago and now takes its turn to the Galician plant. Ladies and gentlemen, on the Vestas plant we have exactly the same problem as in Alcoa or Siemens-Gamesa in Somozas. A company that decides to abandon its activity and close its plant and manifests that it has no real will to collaborate so that the plant can continue to operate with another businessman ahead of it, and a central government that intentionally avoids getting involved in the problems of the Welsh industry, leaving time irresponsibly spent. Because the central government's problem is not only that it is the main cause, through its chaotic and contradictory policies, of the closure of industries, is that it also refuses to actively engage in the search for alternative solutions that maintain the German business fabric. The aim of the Galician Union and this group that supports it is to resolve this situation as soon as possible to protect the jobs and families they depend on. But we can't do it alone, we need government collaboration, government collaboration to find a possible buyer, if you don't give up your intention to close the Viveiro plant, and we also need the company's collaboration, which isn't going to happen. We regret that at the last meeting he had rejected the economic aid put by the Galician Union on top of the table to support the industrial transformation of the factory. In the current situation, the German Government maintains its commitment to continue working on the search for a buyer as soon as possible, but -- I insist -- only the Greek Government cannot solve the problem, it needs the Spanish Government to be involved. The closure of the clothing factory in León two years ago is symptomatic of the industrial situation that goes through our country. It's another example of how industries are closing down all over the country, mainly because of central government policy. It's not a Greek problem, companies don't leave Galicia, companies leave Spain. What if it is a Greek problem is the ill-treatment we suffer by the Socialist Government; there is Alcoa, there is the Ferrolterra naval, there is the hasty and premeditated closure of the thermal power plant of the Bridges, which every passing day is revealed as a great error of calculation of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. In the case of the Vestas plant in León the involvement of the Government of Spain was real, it was direct and it was total. Minister Reyes Maroto himself implicated himself and worked with the Board of Castile-Leon to find a new investor and get the plant to convert. But, of course, this plant is in Galicia and the Government of Spain cares a lot less. That's an indisputable reality. In the case of the Greek plant, the Government's involvement is being minimal and the solutions it proposes are non-existent. We asked the Government of Sánchez to get involved, we asked the Government of Pedro Sánchez the same implication that he had in the case of Vestas in Castela-León, but, look!, in that case the plant was sold, a buyer was obtained but no one hundred percent of the job remained. We asked the Central Government to get involved, as did the case of the Vestas plant in Castela-Leon, but to keep 100 percent of the job. In the face of the abandonment of the central government, the Galician Union has committed itself from the very first moment to the Vesta workers in search of solutions. In successive meetings, the Government of Galicia urged the company to find solutions to protect employment and to maintain the business fabric of the region, even offering investments from the Galician Union to transform that plant. I have to remember that it was the Board that managed to convene that work table, at which the company sat, the workers' representatives and finally the central government. On October 5th and Junta met with all those involved in that industrial table, on October 13th, the table was reconvened and on October 26th, the table was reconvened by the Galician board and the company committee. At these meetings, the top priority of the board was always to guarantee 100 percent of the job, and so it was expressed to the management of the company. And in the face of the company's refusal to present a plan for the industrial transformation of the factory, also the Galician Union is leading the process of finding and finding an investor before the end of this month the ERE is formalized. Junta started contacts with different companies to find a possible buyer for the Viveiro factory, but unfortunately it could not be found the real will of Vestas for selling the plant, so it can continue to operate, and it could not be found at yesterday's meeting the real will of the Central Government to get involved in making the operation viable. And this is the situation we find ourselves in. I know that from the Socialist Party you're going to say that what the county needs is an industrial plan. And it seems very good to us. But it's just that every time socialists talk about industry shuts down a company, every time they talk about energy transition, hundreds of workers get unemployed. It's the industrial policies of the Government that are causing situations like the ones that are going through Vestas, Alcoa or The Bridges today. It's the industrial policies of the Government that are destroying the Italian business fabric and abandoning our industry. It's the industrial policies of the Government of Pedro Sánchez that are causing the price of light to go off and put in play the competitiveness of the Galician companies and all over Spain. Ultimately, the Socialist Government is condemning the Spanish industry, and by extension, by action and by default. And so we asked him not to use industrial plans like smoke curtains. The real industrial plan that the Navy needs is to keep the Alcoa open and keep the Vestas open, and that has to involve the Government of Spain in both matters. [[Applause]] With regard to Alcoa, we only ask the Government of Sánchez to fulfil its own commitments, which temporarily intervenes the company, as it is committed. That's what we ask him to do, no less than fulfill his own promises. I know they're going to say that the German Government has exclusive competences in industrial matters; that's why the Socialist Party is shielded; exclusive competences, of course, but this is an energy problem that is deepening the competitiveness of our industry. And in energy matters the Government of Spain has full powers, absolutely complete. And, therefore, we ask the Government of Spain to stop drowning from that erotic, chaotic, wrong energy policy, stop drowning the Spanish industry and by extension the Welsh industry. We present an initiative with which we intend to show our support to Vesta workers, our support to a whole territory that sees with concern the attempt to close Alcoa and the closure of this plant. And we want to ask all parties to make a commitment to stop stigmatizing a sector that is the wind sector. You can't come to this camera asking in the morning to close all the wind farms in Galicia and in the afternoon to put on the T-shirt of Vestas by asking for the maintenance of those jobs. We asked the opposition parties to close their shoulders and join the Government in the search for solutions, and for that we asked the Government of Spain the same implication as it had when it was the closure of Vestas in Castile-Leon, no less. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u111	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u112	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. The truth is that this is the coherence of the People's Party: now they demand with that intensity the temporary intervention of the Alcoa factory when you were precisely the ones that privatized Inespal in 1997; first we privatized it and now we urgently request that public and temporary intervention; that is the coherence of the People's Party. Yes, Mr. Tellado. [[Applause]] I understand that today you also had another role in this chamber, because I would like to remind you, for those who do not know, that on the 6th day in the Commission we discussed a joint initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and also of the Galego Nationalist Block, in which we carried out very similar initiatives, in which we call for measures to support Vesta workers and also for a reindustrialization plan for our region, with concrete measures, with budgetary approach, with defined projects and with timetable for the execution and evaluation of results. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And look, Mr. Tellado, this reindustrialization plan isn't requested by the PSdEG, asked by Vesta workers and also asked for by the entire Navy. So, I understand that you, who are not from the Navy region, may not know it, but I am very surprised that for the second time we are debating initiatives to support Vesta workers and that this Popular Parliamentary Group has three members from the Navy region who are not able to come to defend this supposed initiative, because the title it leads is about the actions in relation to the work regulation file of the Vesta plant in Viveiro. But, of course, they take advantage of that initiative, that is, we are going to support the Vesta workers, who, by the way, are all solidarity, the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but, of course, we are taking that initiative, but then, how are we going to take this initiative to attack the Central Government, who must be sent by the People's Parliamentary Group? Well, the most specialist, isn't he? [[Applause]] It is therefore a pity that Members of the People's Parliament for the Navy had missed out on a new opportunity to show something beyond solidarity, which, by the way, Mr Tellado, the workers do not eat with solidarity. There is a need for concrete action. [[Murmurs.]] But who's responsible for solving the Vesta problem? Where does the Vestas factory lie? Galicia. Where is the employment regulation file presented? Galicia. So who is the labour authority? Here the labour authority, of course, is the Union of Galicia. And on the other hand, yes, yes, they're clear that they have exclusive industrial competences. Exercise them at once. And if they don't know or don't want to exercise them, they give them to whoever knows, to whom they want to exercise them. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Tellado, they always fail the truth. You say the industrial table in Vestas was convened and organized by the Galician board. Of course. Who has the skills? But it's just that when we brought a question to this chamber and we asked the counselor there for September -- because I want to remember that this employment regulation file was presented on September 20, and the Galician Board was unable to receive the workers until September 27, -- that's the importance given to the Vesta workers by the Galician Board; seven days took them, one day before the consultation period for that employment regulation file began. Of course, but we already asked the Galician board what measures it would take to solve this Vesta employment regulation file, because they have exclusive competences in industry. And, of course, we said -- because that's how the Vesta workers moved it -- that it was necessary that the industrial table should already be convened. And we urged the councillor to convene that table, because he was competent to convene it, and he said, of course!, it is that summons it, of course, will not go to the central government. Look, three meetings at the industrial table, at the three sitting the central government, that, that. [[Murmurs.]] Of course! The People's Party was a seer, saying the Central Government wouldn't sit at that industrial table. Did you sit down or didn't you sit down? Nothing else. But, let's see, Mr. Tellado, the Central Government has the utmost collaboration for the Galician Union to resolve this conflict. But let's be consistent: who has the skills? The Galician Union. Therefore, exercise them. It's all about throwing balloons out; everything, everything, blame of the central government. No, Mr. Tellado, we are, unfortunately, very accustomed to the closure of so many and so many companies in which the Galician Union could do much more because these companies would not close. So that reindustrialization plan we've asked for is even more accurate today, more than ever, because we've been seeing twelve years of closed down and constantly closing down companies in our neighborhood. So we gave the People's Party an opportunity to show that support to Vesta workers last week. We vote for points, and we let him vote for the first point separately, but in the second, which was the reindustrialization plan, which is a measure that calls for workers in the medium and long term, the People's Party voted against. And I don't want to ignore my intervention to make some considerations to the statements you made yesterday, after the industrial table in Vestas, the employment adviser, the industrial table where you were sitting the central government and where you were proactive, but the powers to look for that investor are from the Board of Directors in Galicia. And he made very unlucky statements that fail the reality of the facts. We see that it shouldn't be anything new lately in the Employment Council to fake reality. Statements made by a member of the Greek Government, which we do not forget that it has the competence to manage the problem of Vestas, because, as I said, it is a labour authority and, on the other hand, it has the exclusive competences in industrial matters. And to say, through the counsellor's mouth, that they are frankly disappointed with the role that the ministry is playing through the Directorate-General of Industry at this table is to have a lot of faces. How will the disappointed workers then be with the Galician Union, who does nothing to solve this problem? And also that he hadn't done anything in search of a buyer, when he's in charge of the Galician Union. And he went even further, claiming that the ministry has no interest in maintaining Vestas' activity. But who does the Employment Adviser believe to make these statements that the ministry does not intend to keep the jobs of Vestas? What you don't intend to do is to join Galicia. It's more, the counselor opened the door and said that there seems to be some kind of conflict of interest and that this is what leads to conversations outside the industrial table in direct or indirect support of the Vesta strategy by the ministry. But what a cardboard! But what's this joke? If it is the Council of Galicia that has the powers, it is the People's Party that affords the luxury to speak of conflict of interest. It's just that this is the top of the hives. So the government's collaboration, everything, when we told the councillor to call the table to find a solution and at the end of September we told him that the central government would sit down, and there it was; it was also yesterday in the search for that investor. But, therefore, what I'm telling you is that, if you have the skills, you exercise them, which are very well the slogans of support for Vesta workers, but we see how then all they do is throw balloons out, because on the initiative that you bring here today, of support for Vesta workers, little: point 1.a) The rest is to throw balloons out and throw the blame on the central government in something that you, like me, know it's not the central government's competence. What does the central government have to do with the Galician Union? Of course. What do we transfer it from the PSdeG? No doubt. And there's the central government with those measures. But, therefore -- we repeat -- what the workers are asking for, on the one hand, as an urgent measure: these support measures to take down the employment regulation file, which there the Galician Union has competences. What we were asked to do with the employment regulation file in Alcoa is now paying for you with Vestas. The other day Mr. Tellado himself was talking about the company acting in bad faith. So, look, I give you a little advice: tell the Galician Council to take the wrong faith argument out there so you can get the job regulation file. And, on the other hand, mid- and long-term measures are that reindustrialization plan for our region, for the marine region, and that's what the workers and the marine region are asking for. So I don't understand that constant blockade of this reindustrialization plan that would serve to strengthen our region, nor do I understand that vote that the People's Party made against when it was the debate of the state of Autonomy, in which the PSdeG proposed a compromise proposal to one of the proposals of the People's Parliamentary Group so that we will try among all of us to have the textile factory of Others set up in our region, and you, the People's Party, voted against. So a lot of support for the Navy region and then its Members for the Navy district are not able to come here to defend this initiative, because it's very weak, and support for Vesta workers has nothing. So they go from these slogans to the facts, because the workers in the Navy will be grateful to them. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Castro García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is, you're very daring and daring, you're very brave. October 26, today, after voting against the 20th, there's less than a week...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u116	- Thank you, Mr. President, very well -. Six days ago, they voted against -- tranquility, so I like -- from any initiative that put real effort on the board, they voted for support because obviously they can't vote against support, they voted against an industrialization and employment plan for the Navy, and they go on October 26, a few days from nothing, that 115 people stay on the street and come here talking about Pedro Sánchez, from the state government, who, besides half of the things -- I'm not what I have to say -- that the state government has already done them, and they come to talk about the stigmatization of the wind sector. [[Murmurs.]] But, let's see, if you support a government that has achieved nothing, but nothing, to nothing absolute. And, then, are you going to tell all those people that they're a few days away that they're throwing her out on the street because the wind sector, my poor, is very stigmatized? It's just that, you know, we know that the cute is often made of concrete, but please don't insult people, because they're calling them idiots. [[Applause]] And then, besides, yesterday there was a very important meeting, which was vital, actually, and what news of yesterday's meeting? The novelty is that the company is very bad, it's bad, it's bad, of course, it's bad, and what a shame, that there's not enough time for an alternative, that doesn't give time to the board because the company is bad. You see, maybe that's why it's important that they rule over democratically elected governments, even if we don't like them, rather than businesses. But the worst thing is, of course, you're very comfortable and very comfortable with this. And they're very comfortable and comfortable because they've created the legal framework that allows companies to do this, and then, when we have to act, because alas, the company doesn't let me, is that the company doesn't give me any more time, of course, because it doesn't care, it can't do any more. So I repeat it again, just like day 20: do you see why they're here? Because they support a government that has -- and I say it again -- exclusive competences in industry. So maybe we can just rule this government, the group that supports the government, that governs, for example, the Iberdrola party. Or is he already ruling? I don't know, we'll leave it for another day. [[Applause]] It is better for us to entrust ourselves to the Holy Spirit. Maybe that's why, when we first showed up yesterday with the workers, we ended up at the Workplace, because they say that while hope is left, they say that hope is the last that is lost; for there's still some illusion. Because the worst and the saddest is that the workers and the workers and the entire company committee have zero hope that the board can do something about it. And I didn't tell you Daniel Castro, BNG deputy, or the Galego Nationalist Block, I told him the workers themselves and the chairman of the company committee. And that's how sad it is, that some workers who go to the streets have zero hope in their own government. And so we are, that I already told you the other day -- well, I spoke in other terms -- and here we talked a lot about that in this country Galician Union has become the largest Galician TTT. And I came to make another proposal -- I already announced it the other day --. I think ETT isn't so much, I'd say more real estate portals than companies. And it's just, by making a metaphor that has a lot of real -- and sadly has a lot of real -- you go up the country to the web and sell it for dogs, for parcels, and you put all the facilities to companies so they come to do Galicia the same thing as with a student flat, same thing. Because you come here, you put the whole school floor into the company, that's Galicia, that's where companies have a great time, a lot of them become very dirty, and then next year they're gone. The problem, the problem... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u118	-- Thank you, president, I like it that way -- is that the next course isn't coming new companies, but here what's left is unemployment, deindustrialization, and there's demographic challenge, demographic crisis. And when companies close, there's a demographic crisis, which doesn't solve just by giving birth. [[Applause]] Maybe maybe with a strong industry, maybe, maybe, people will work there and put their families there and have more kids and decide to have them, maybe, but maybe they're crazy that happens to us. And the summary, the sad summary is that, if we get to compare, photocass or idealist next to him are beginners, and look at what they're doing troupels, look at that photocass and idealist do troupels, but the problem is that here who pays is our country and specifically the region of the Navy, who pays deindustrialization knows enough. And besides, a region that's seen as the government of Feijóo -- I told them the other day -- it's an objective crack for the marine region, because I assumed more loss of direct jobs in industry than all of the previous governments -- 1,000 direct jobs in 12 years related to industry, and I hope those 1,500 might not be on their way, I hope not. Then the problem is that BNG hates industry, hates the company, wants to close everything, all wind farms. But let's see, you're the corporate closing champions, I told you the other day, all Nobels, they have Guinness World Records in closing companies, at least in the Navy, and in this country there are a few, uh! I'm not going to repeat all the names of all the companies, that there are for a few. But, behind those names, there are people, people who have lost their jobs, their way of earning their bread, and maybe those people are no longer in the neighborhood, by chance. And this has to do with what they always say, that their ideology is Galicia, Galicia, Galicia, and for the fourth time Galicia, and I don't think so. I honestly don't think so, I don't think so, I don't think so. [[Murmurs.]] Because you have a very clear ideology, very clear, even if you want to hide it; it's called neoliberalism, and above all exacerbated; and that's also neoliberalism, which is the cause that these companies are closed in the way of governing that they have, is what prevents them that way, that ideology that you have, voting against things that are so tolerant, so social-communist-Bolivarian, like companies, industrial projects that settle in our country have to ensure that supplies and construction are done in your own country. What a crazy, crazy, so social-communist and dangerous measure! And that's not with Galicia, Galicia, Galicia, that's because you're a neoliberal book, and that's why. Because, of course, if these measures were carried out, those friends with whom they are already tightened up easily because they might get angry; then, there comes the problem, that they have to rule for their friends from Iberdrola. But, seeing as they are, I would at least say to them: let them advise, because, as if to say a lot in this chamber, it's bad that the opposition never tells a measure worth a while, let it be right. Let us advise and vote in favour of an industrialization and employment plan for the Navy, in this case by setting aside an own budget share in these budgets. Or the case is that in the Navy it doesn't need and in Ferrolterra yes, of course it needs. Because, if not, we are forced to think badly, I really don't want to think badly, and I don't think that it's because they like Ferrolterra more or The Navy, but I have to think wrong and think that maybe the only difference between the Ferrol industrialization plan and an industrialization plan for the Navy is that in the name of Ferrol puts it at the end of the state, and as in the Navy it doesn't state and we can't hit or report to the state government, because maybe that's why they don't vote for it. Because in the end they don't care about people, all they want is to win the story and the battle of press notes, and use our country's problems to profit from their own party, and that's the only thing that moves them, whether or not they're the exclusive competences, that of course they are. And that's why we're registering these amendments. First, because we don't want to insult the workers and the workers, and secondly, because at the same time we give alternatives to the problems now, to solve the problems of the present, and above all to those who come in the future and so that this will never happen again. And for one thing that's a certain coincidence, isn't it? We want you to send more, we want you as a government, as a government-supported group, to send more, and the decisions affecting this country don't make them a gentleman in Pittsburgh, Denmark or Cochinchina. We want the government they support to send more. And, to finish, two things. The first one, which I hope to see us on November 14 at the general strike in the Navy, which for some reason is done -- I don't know, what a chance! -- and, second, they remember that when they bring these initiatives here they're talking about people who lose their jobs, and it's people who, as they say, aren't beasts, they're people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u119	Thank you, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u120	Mr. Castro, the strike in the Navy is on the 17th, not the 14th, and of course it will be the People's Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, he gave up -- and he did well -- because I meant exactly his game. You can't be every morning asking for the paralysis of all Galician wind farms and in the afternoon to put on the T-shirt of Vestas asking that the workers who manufacture aero-governers have work, because in the morning what they're told is that they don't have a job. You can't keep doing so much demagogy. [[Applause]] Look, at the request of the Marine Reindustrialization Plan, which you share with the Socialist Party, because, in total, I'm an appendix to the Socialist Party, it's nothing more than a smoke curtain, a smoke curtain to dilute the political responsibilities of the Government of Spain, which you support. Do you know what our industrial plan for the Navy is? Keep open Alcoa and keep open Vestas. They've been added to that since their match, and since the Government of Spain. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Castro, what's the energy model of BNG? What is clear to us is that there is no energy model. Look, they're against the thermals, and you've supported their closure. They're against the wind, and they're holding demonstrations where they can against the wind. They're against the marine wind, they're against the hydroelectric power stations. You don't have an energy model, you're against everything and for nothing. That's the reality and the big lie of the Galician Nationalist Block. Mrs. Otero, go paper, that's reality. Look, if you close Alcoa, the only one responsible will be the Government of Pedro Sánchez, if you close Alcoa, the only one responsible will be the Government of Pedro Sánchez; don't be mistaken, you've been ruling for three years and three years without solving a problem that you have committed to solve. Look, do you know what Alcoa's problem is? Do you know what's the problem with the whole Welsh industry? It's not an industrial problem, it's an energy problem. I'm from the county of Ferrolterra, it's that Megasa is working at night because they can't pay the bill of light if they work in the morning. And who's responsible? The Government of Spain. That's the reality. Look, you're closing a lot of companies, not Germans, from all over Spain. Look, to produce, electro-intensive industries have to pay a price in Spain of 125 euros/megavatio; in France, 51, and in Germany, 87. You're the biggest job destroyers in our country; don't be mistaken; those responsible for the electro-intensive industry have all these problems are you. You betrayed our subconscious, you say the central government has no competence, so the central government has no competence in industry. No, it's wrong, the central government is an incompetent energy policy, Mrs. Otero, an incompetent!, and that's why we're in this situation. [[Applause]] You say the central government is sitting at the industrial table. In fact, he's sitting and with his arms crossed, because he didn't make any proposals to solve the future of Vestas or put resources on the table so that Vestas would continue to work in Viveiro, nor put resources to look for a company that takes care of the plant and can follow the activity. We ask that incompetent government, which you represent here today, to act as you did in Castile and León, exactly the same. Or did he have skills in Castile and León and not here? But don't take people's hair off! Do you think you can go back to the Navy with this kind of argument? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I have the feeling that these opposition parties intend to turn the Vestas closure into a local problem, or at least a comarcal problem, to circumvent the responsibilities of the central government. Don't be mistaken: this is not a local problem; of course it affects the Viveiro and the whole Navy, but Vestas doesn't leave Galicia, Vestas leaves Spain because of the erratic energy and industrial policy of a government that has no credibility. [[Murmurs.]] We're viewing every day as large multinationals cancel investment projects in our country, and while this happens, do you guys do at the PSdeG-PSOE? They come here, they go up this rostrum, and because they don't want Ferraz to stand against his primary process, they come here to defend everything he does or doesn't do the Government of Spain. And why? Well, because they're more worried about you than they're worried about what really matters. If Alcoa has no solution, it's because the Government of Spain doesn't put a solution on the table, because Alcoa has had the same problem years ago, and what was the Government of Mariano Rajoy doing? Negotiating a solution, getting a competitive price for the intensive industry, and companies were not leaving. What does the Government of Pedro Sánchez do? Nothing. You're right, Mrs. Otero: the Government of Spain is irresponsible; the Government of Spain has no competence, no, it's incompetent. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u121	About the amendments, Mr. Tellado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u122	Yes, I think it became clear that we did not accept amendments from the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u123	Thank you. After the debate on non-legislative proposals has been closed, we shall proceed to the vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u124	We started by voting on the People's Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the request of the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain for a defence, before the European Union and the World Trade Organization, to halt the proposal to prohibit certain fishing subsidies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u125	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil. We vote. Voting of G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to ensure the right to abortion in the public health system The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u126	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Bará. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and eighteen Members, on the procedure opened by the European Commission to Spain for irregularities in the extension of the grant of AP-9. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u127	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to reverse the public system of ownership and management of the ground health service and the improvement of the conditions of its staff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u128	We voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia to strengthen the Public Employment Service and promote active employment policies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u129	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Miguel Tellado. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Nationalist Block of Wales are not accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u130	Yeah, sorry?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u131	She doesn't accept it. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Elena Candia López and 13 other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia in relation to the work regulation file of the factory of Vestas, in Viveiro, and the energy transition. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u132	The votes are over here. And we continue with the agenda, in this case the third point, interpelerations. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u133	There's a change in the agenda, which has already been reported. Question by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the policy of the Greek Government on the information transparency of the health situation of residential care centres for older persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u134	To formulate this interpellation has the floor to Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u135	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. A few weeks ago we celebrated the debate of Autonomy in this parliament, where the German president reported that 92.7% of the population in Greece who might receive the vaccine already had the full schedule, making us the first autonomous community at full vaccination level. This is directly proportional to the number of vaccines coming from the Government of Spain within the European framework. The popular friar, who is wise, says that it is well-born to be grateful. On the contrary, the Greek president prefers to confront rather than coordinate efforts in the midst of an unprecedented crisis, and, far from thanking the efforts of the Spanish Ministry of Health and Government, he gives merit once again by applying the policy of "I invite and you pay," because Feijóo plays slander by saying that the vaccines did not pay them to the Government. Not if it's out of ignorance, it's wrong to know and it does. But the reality is that the vaccines paid them by the Ministry of Health with European own funds, and the application supplies them to the team of magnificent professionals of our public health in the autonomous communities; and in Galicia these very professionals who praise with their mouths, but in the meantime they continue to beg the Government of Greece for an improvement in working conditions so as not to have to leave Galicia to work in other autonomous communities. [[Applause]] Thanks, among other things, to the good performance of vaccination in our country, a few days ago Galicia left the health emergency. However, the data on infection or death -- that had happened to them -- in the homes of older people have disappeared from the official board website for at least five months. We don't understand the reasons and expect us to clarify the Counsellor today. The transparency of the Greek Government is a pending task, which worries -- and much -- of citizenship, because when the people are no longer informed they lose freedom, and when they lose freedom, decisions are conditional. You have the power, Counselor, and as such you have the moral duty to make a responsible policy. Throughout the pandemic, they had the indecency to lie when they talked about the percentage of residences of older coronary cordovirus free, consciously manipulating the data, placing disability centers when talking about residences. The German president knows that we took him in a resignation in this sense and in the debate of the Autonomy he no longer dared to talk only about older residences and also explicitly appointed the centres of persons with disabilities, because he knows and is clear that only older residences are not to be presumed, they are not good. And it mixes with each other because the low incidence of centres of people with disabilities compensates for it. But the low incidence of cases in the centres of persons with disabilities was no accident but the result of an effort of resources and staff that I assumed a surplus of more than 1 million and a half euros only in Fademga's 37 entities, for example; overcosts that the council did not want to assume despite the fact that it was their competence and that it had resources for it. Counsellor, will you listen to these bodies responsible for disability centres and cover the over-costs? Yes or no? The German president moved forward in the debate of Autonomy a little bit about the residential model, the new high-secret model that the Union doesn't talk about but has been announcing for more than a year. It started textually like this: "starting at a point of departure that was already significantly higher than most communities, we will manage to place the residences of the Greeks as absolute leaders at the national level in the care of the older people" -- breast quotes --. And I remember the Galician Board of Auditors' Report, which discovered how since 2010 to Junta has reduced inspections of larger centers scandalously or also how Galicia decompensated the residential model of Galicia with an increase in private squares over the state average, and serious irregularities in relation to the professional rate, among many other issues. Following this, the Board of Auditors has drawn conclusions in the 2017 report and above all recommendations specific to the Galician Union. It was recommended to the Board that more residential public squares be incorporated into the Galician social services system in order to meet the growing needs of care. Did you get it? No, no, no, no. It was recommended to the Board to equip itself with sufficient personnel and the means necessary to meet the waiting deadlines to have a place in a residence in less than six months, not as it is in more than four hundred days. Did you get it? No, no, no, no. You were recommending to Join the need for increased service inspection personnel to strengthen oversight of a privatized system that escapes control. Did you get it? No, no, no, no. It was recommended even very concrete: to increase public squares through the total occupation of the squares existing in the public residence of Carballino, and neither did they. But it's just that, in addition, the Prosecutor's Office delivered a few days ago, through the Galician senior prosecutor, a report that alerts the need to increase the public budget and increase the private spending of the Greek residence set to improve the quality of senior residences in Galicia. In a context marked by privatization of squares, how is it possible to know whether the private sector invests enough or not if we are the second community that less inspection technicians have to monitor the conditions under which residences are found in Galicia? Having said this, the president of the board came here last week to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that in the area of residences in Galicia we are the best. Who then lies, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feijóo or the Board of Auditors and the Prosecutor's Office? We don't understand. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if something taught us the pandemic, it would be one before and after one in many aspects of our lives. The pandemic has changed everything and has also sent us some warnings to society as a whole. He warned us of the massification of cities and the abandonment of rural areas. We realized when citizenship had to be confined, mostly on floors not many square meters, making us reflect on the quality of life that we have according to the place where we live and with that the cost of abandoning rural life. But another of the issues with which the pandemic has opened its eyes to society was the reflection of the kind of care that older people receive, and that's why the urgency of a new model of care, and more given that the derivative of the population pyramid tends to form more and more single-person homes, nearly 350,000 people living alone in Galicia, that as they celebrate years will be born a need for assistance. Many of these people live or will live alone unwelcome and continue to wait for promises not fulfilled by the German Government. Counsellor, for when are real silent measures for people living in unwanted solitude? The fact is that since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have been asking for two questions repeatedly: data on cod and deaths by each residential centre and explicit and detailed information on the new care model or the new residential model. In the first, as far as contact data for each residence is concerned, we were not given access in any way. The Greek Government has censored our capacity as representatives of citizenship to know fundamental data to assess the context, and censoring not only the data but also preventing the commission of research on what happened in residences. They censor the information not for the person who is speaking to them but for the Greeks and Greeks I have the honour to represent and who are as worthy as those who can represent you, lords of the People's Party. But what's most appealing is the fact that there's been at least five months in the German Government and it doesn't even publish the global data in residences. Why? Does it have to do with the fact that the data were changing over time, on better and worse occasions, but that just the months omitted to the Greeks were data that did not reflect a good incidence on the part of the vault in Galicia? And so they showed it the data and the graphs we could find, yes, in the ministry data. This is the graph from the total number of residents confirmed in the covid and killed by the covid since the completion of the vaccination process. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] This precisely corresponds to the absence of data from Galician Union to citizenship. Here you can see on the chart how high the incidence is in these months. The fact is, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have been very insistent on these issues and we fear that hiding the data is due to the fact that the data may not be so good and cannot make the Government boast of them. In the case of the new residence model, the advisor here has already announced many times on many fronts that this work already existed, and once again, the Greek president announces that work and says it will come in the next few weeks -- but no illusions are made, because he hasn't said how many --. In addition, the German President indicated, in relation to the residence model, that a control panel will be established at the autonomous level to follow the situation of all residences in real time. Just wish it worked better than the tracks when it was by the Board in the vault. And we have to ask a question in this direction. We want you to explain this point to us, Counsellor, and also to know whether they will give up the recommendations of the Board of Auditors and the new proposals to increase inspection technicians. In addition to the media, we know that Junta will test the use of robots to care for larger households. But we're not the first ones, here are precedents, and here I show what the headline was. I announce in this sense: "Junta will test the use of robots to care for older people in residences," and it was not the first; it was a precedent, a copy of Castile-Leon: "Boy, the Japanese intelligent robot that takes care of the elderly, arrives at the residences of Castile and Lion." [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] Counsellor, with all due respect, if this is the new model we intend to make for the care of our elders with all due respect, I think they are wrong. And, textually, since the Galician Federation of Families...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u136	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u137	...indicate this proposal to rub the delirium. And, Counselor, if the new model is going along in this direction, the Greeks will think that this government has absolutely no understanding of what happened after the pandemic. Leave robots, make them more personal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u139	...with better working conditions, they talk to the sector, families and users and real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u140	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u141	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Mrs. Ortega, I will not deny you that you have truly surprised me by your plea. I thought maybe it was an initiative that was registered months ago and I had decided to recover it for this plenary. But no, I see this plea was drafted a few weeks ago to transfer weapons today. The memory of all the people who died in Galicia because of the coward-19 will accompany them forever. [[Applause]] But I really believe that your attempt to revive artificial controversy, which has already been denied dozens and dozens of months, is not responsible, Mrs. Ortega. And I'm telling you the truth, with all the love you know I have. There are two aspects of the text that you have registered and that really call me attention. It speaks in the text of the interpeleration of evacuation protocols here in Galicia, one of the first autonomous communities at the national level that launched integrated residences; specific places where to care for, treat and cure the most infected people. And in addition to that text he writes a certain curious phrase. They are careful: "the arrival of vaccines by the state in the European framework"; a sentence that mentions those who paid the vaccines, the European Union; and also that sent them to seventeen recipients, which are the autonomous communities; an important task that the central government has done. But the text does not mention even those who put the vaccines, which was the public health of the autonomous communities. And since we're doing autonomous politics here in this Galician Parliament, I really don't think there's any more to recognize the work, the effort and the addiction of the hundreds and hundreds of professionals who took part in the campaign to vaccinate the coward-19. [[Applause]] The vaccination teams in Galicia have achieved a prowess: that ten months after the immunization process started in a residence, all seniors are already immunized and contain in addition to that third dose of reinforcement. It's very good news, which marks the beginning of the end of the health pandemic. The core of your question is information about positives in residences. Look, Mrs Ortega, to this day, both now and at the beginning of the pandemic, all Galicia can know how positive it is for coronoviruses there are in every major residence in Galicia, in every residence of persons with disabilities. They're the only places that have this information available in conjunction with the educational centres. If there was a groum in a shopping mall, if there was a groum in a factory, if there was a groum in the home of a political party, it wouldn't be published, but in residences. We think of information that's still relevant, and that's why we're still giving it. And I insist, once again: all the Greeks and Greeks, from their homes, can know in which residences of Galicia are positive. This has been happening since March 2020. Even at the moment with less impact of the vault, which is the current moment, Galicia brings data more precisely, more clearly and more periodically than the central government itself at the toughest moment in the pandemic. Now you tell me you don't like the way we publish the data, that you prefer another way, that maybe it would be better via the web. I sincerely, Mrs. Ortega, believe it's discussions that really don't care about families right now. Because the families are interested in that since the lifting of the health emergency, they can visit their families without restriction -- that's all, yes, and we recommend it -- asking for a prior quote. Our family members and the elders are concerned now that they can already get out of the street, they can already take the air, they can go out and take something and do it without limits, and also that all these older people can now live quietly, because the residential professionals join the periodicals. From the memory to all who have left us, Galicia wants to move forward. And this past year, we've taught the whole world a lesson of sincerity. In a year, I don't know what we're going to be like, but I hope and hope that this pandemic will be a thing of the past. I hope that the Greek homes have already recovered their economic situation from before all this and I really hope that social services will continue to advance thanks to the greatest self-investment in social affairs: 927.4 million euros by the next year 2022. I also sincerely hope, Mrs Ortega, that the Socialist Party will not continue to repeat the same question that we have been answering continuously since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u142	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the truth is that a social policy advisor in an autonomous community does not know that the investment of vaccines was by the Ministry of Health. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] How can you not know this data as your advisor? But what irresponsibility is that! Is it out of ignorance or is it aware of what you're saying and doing it to damage? Because both things are negative. Health confirms that investment in these drugs, in particular in vaccines, has cut the budget to 17.4%, Counsellor. Grave. Stop playing with these things that benefit nothing in this context of citizenship, they only prejudice; they have responsibility, they don't lie and they don't miss the truth because they escape their responsibility. [[Applause]] And he's talking about the families, he's talking about the families, Counselor. But what you have to talk about is the families, not the families. To talk to the families who are waiting for you to talk to them because they have lots of proposals and, by the way, they're taking these new measures from the robot Copito, or whatever they call it, to look after the older people. It's totally indecency and irresponsibility to talk about families when they don't even meet with them. And another question. He's talking about the data, which we already have. I'm telling Mrs. Rodil in this case that she had already sent us to Google the Counsellor for both me and Mrs. Rodil, and we still haven't found the data. I don't know if Mrs. Rodil found them, but I certainly didn't. She says no, Mrs. Rodil, neither. Well, I don't know, the counselor says the data is, they'll be in the cloud or I don't know where, but I don't know where. Counsellor, you will now blame the second intervention -- which certainly does not disappoint -- the Government, as it always does. And it's a pity because the competitions are here and it's a very hard, very hard counselor, because the competitions on such a sensitive subject and in the middle of a pandemic are very hard to manage -- I recognize it -- but it's also very rewarding if things are done well, sensitively and working without waiting for them to come out and manage their own competencies, which you have here. In residences the skills -- I repeat it as soon as he talks about the government -- are here before, during and after the covid. And the German President and you, Madam Social Policy Advisor, are the most responsible when you censor yourself with that face, without blinking, saying that the data has already been made available. But how is it possible for you to say that to your face when you know perfectly that you haven't made it easy and spent all possible regulatory avenues, and yet you haven't given us the right that we have, not us, but the people, the Greek citizens and the Greeks that we represent? You're responsible. [[Applause]] Both the president, Mr Feijóo, and you, Counsellor, have been censored here with a commission of inquiry about what happened in the homes of older people during the pandemic. Why? Don't you want to know or don't you want the Galicians and the Greeks to know? You've omitted the data of contagion and deaths for each residential care center, which we ask for over and over again -- I repeat --. You're misdirecting and twisting the transition to a new model of care with this type of proposals, with this kind of proposals I've already commented on, that of the famous robot, the ill-used technology; I repeat: the Board will test the use of the robot to care for larger in residences. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] The elderly in residences, what they need is more personal and with better working conditions, not robots, Counselor. That's where they're wrong. [[Applause]] You, the German Government, aren't talking to the sector, to the workers, to the families; ultimately, you don't understand what the sector needs. It's not more robotic, it's more human resources and better conditions. Because the pandemic has given us another warning: technology will never replace contact with face, it will never replace a look, never a caress, never a smile. We knew it perfectly when we were confined, because, no matter how much we talked about phone or video conferencing with our families, it's never going to be like face to face, having a hug from our families. Counsellor, you have to be in charge of warning Mr Feijóo that technology does not replace human heat, that it continues to transform the oldest residences in this sense without increasing human resources, as well as by indeed disabling the health care staff of the citizen through the excessive use of telephone calls now in Sergas, in which a person, by some administrative authority, decides on the derivation of our illness, whether we have to care for the pediatrician, the doctor or the nurse, and whether it has to be present or not. For a lot of technology, but little personal, Counselor, Galicia is not the Matrix, come down to reality, empathize with it, so that we can optimize the resources of all Greeks and Greeks towards a new model of optimal care and up to the circumstances, and, above all, humanize the context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u144	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the gap, social policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Ortega, the Central Government is preparing statistics at the national level of the cover-19 in the homes of older people based on the data that the autonomous communities make public, autonomous communities like Galicia. Will it be any chance or are you telling me that your Central Government colleagues, the Socialist Party, have access to a different Google or a Google better than yours? Because the data is and the statistics are also published. Look, Mrs Ortega, there is a politician who has become the vice president of a socialist government and who now becomes a Tertullian again, becomes a columnist and is also a tweeter who said a lot that has to politicize the pain. It always seemed to me -- the truth -- an extremely theoretical sentence, because the pain has to be cured, the pain has to be treated and the pain has to try to overcome it gradually. But politicizing pain means taking advantage of the patient to get a handful of votes, it doesn't mean helping that person get out. [[Applause]] Few political behaviors seem more reprehensible to me than that. I'm sure, fully sure, that none of the political parties who are here on this camera want to make politics with pain. I'm sure you have a sincere concern about information transparency. That's why I tell you that here in Galicia transparency was total from the beginning to the end, and it wasn't total transparency by obligation, but transparency was total by conviction. We did this about families, because we believe it's information of public interest and that in addition to a health emergency situation it deserves to be available to people. The evolution of the pandemic centers the center, the new contagions, the healings and, unfortunately, the deaths could be followed with the maximum periodicity. We try to do this by conjugating the rights of all sides: of residents and their families, of residential centers and also of citizenship as a whole. From the data that the Galician Union gave with the highest periodicity -- as it said -- comparisons at the national level, which reveal that Galicia was one of the autonomous communities of the Peninsula where less damage did the coronavirus in the residences, which doesn't mean it didn't hurt. Now, Mrs Ortega, I sincerely believe that we all deserve to look forward, because the users of the homes of older and disabled, and all their loved ones, who after a long time are back to sleep peacefully. It is also deserved by the workers and the workers of the residences, who faced in an admirable manner a situation in which there was no instruction manual. And you deserve it too, Mrs Ortega, all the citizenship of Galicia, and we believe your will must be respected. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG053.u146	Thank you, Counselor. The session is suspended until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
