ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores, who delegated to Mrs. Anne Belén Pontón Mondelo, and Mr. Rubén Lorenzo Gómez, who delegated to Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga, were not present. The Bureau authorized these delegations. And, no more, we're on the agenda. The first point is legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft legislation on waste and contaminated soils of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u2	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Galician Nationalist Block are maintained. The president of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, says Carmen María Pomar Tojo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u3	Good morning, ladies. The Galician Contaminated Waste and Soil Bill was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 29 September 2020, and its admission to the procedure was carried out by the Parliamentary Bureau at its meeting on 5 October, opening the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 24 October and 11 November 2020 for amendments to the whole and the articulated one respectively. In particular, the amendments to the full refund, tabled by the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialists, were rejected at the plenary meeting on 9 December 2020. For its part, the amendments to the articulation presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of 169: 112 of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, 48 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and 9 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 18 December 2020, appointed the Ponto to prepare the report which was formed at the same date and at the following three meetings, the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs: Ms Marta Nóvoa Iglesias, by the Popular Parliamentary Group of Galicia; Mr Luís Bará Torres, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, and Ms Paloma Castro Rei, by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia. They prepared the report with the final recommendations, which were issued on 20 January 2021. Subsequently, Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 28 January, approved the dictatorship which is put to debate and vote in this plenary session and whose text consists of explanatory statements, followed by a total of 94 articles, divided into nine titles, relating to the provisions and general principles, the instruments of waste policy, its production, possession and management, to the management of commercial and industrial waste; the extended responsibility of the subject producer, the expropriation and regulation of contaminated soils, promotion, promotion and dissemination, as well as surveillance, inspection, control and sanctioning authority. And finally, its final part, consisting of four additional provisions, four transitional provisions, one derogation and two finals. It is therefore necessary to complete today the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the draft legislation on waste and contaminated soils of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pomar. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We begin with the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I started this appearance in a similar way as I did the other day in the debate in the committee, before I came to value our amendments and set our position on the dictates. I would like to thank the rest of the groups for voting during all the proceedings, which I think should be fundamental to a political debate. This is my participation in the bill, and I assume it with a great responsibility, with the desire to be able to participate and bring out the best proposals in a regulation that reaches a matter as important as waste management, because of the impact it has, both on the economic, environmental and also on human health. But I regret that this good tune was not accompanied by debate, closer postures or even aspects such as the participation of experts linked to the sector. With regard to the action we had from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, our parliamentary group initially tabled an amendment to the whole bill because it understood that there were crucial and basic issues that were not envisaged and others that should have a different regulation, in order to achieve a law regulating responsible waste management, and I refer, above all, to environmental responsibility. Because we must not forget that we find ourselves in a context where waste production is on an ever-increasing increase and that waste-related economic activity is becoming increasingly important, both because of its scale and its direct impact on our economic model. During the processing of this law, the good tone by the Phoenician I referred to at the beginning was only in this, in a good tone. It was a shame because, in the end, there was a total lack of participation, both with the rest of the groups and with the sectors involved. From the proposed group, only a document was sent to us with the amendments accepted or negotiated, which, in my group's case, was something symbolic, since it was only 15 out of 112 amendments that we presented to the 94 articles of this law. And besides, the few that have been accepted or traded, refer to very timely aspects and that at no time have changed or adapted the spirit of this normative text to what we want. I understand that a great opportunity has been lost, therefore, to improve waste management and clarify the competences and responsibilities, and to do so in line with the strategies against climate change, with the next state regulation that is already initiated in Congress and with the current European legislation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with this Galician law remains behind. I have already said in committee, and I insist, that the positions in relation to the management model should not be black or white. We have an initial position different from the model that exists at the moment in Galicia, the centralized management model, currently prevailing and that continues to maintain this new law, but we could have opted for an intermediate model. So the acceptance by the People's Party, the People's Group, of the amendments in this respect, with this model of management that we formulated -- would be an approximation of positions around this, and although it was not in the will to achieve it at first, but rather to achieve a more decentralized model progressively -- would open up the possibility of a change of position in relation to this law, of the position we have today. But it wasn't, because the People's Party didn't even have the slightest interest in approaching positions, and, then, lords and ladies of the PP, with this processing that was lost was a great opportunity; a great opportunity for us all and our contributions to add and make a better text as a result of dialogue and participation. On the other hand, as I've already shown in other interventions, we understand that this law was very necessary, but it's late. We have to get side by side with other autonomous communities, such as the Basque Country, Balearics, Catalonia or Madrid, and with European legislation, but we're late -- even if it's better late than never before -- We should have taken into account aspects of these other autonomous regulations already approved and in force during the processing time of this law, because I remind you that this law has been on the table since the beginning of 2018, and that it has also taken advantage of these autonomous experiences, so that, in these three years of processing, it improves it, since we all know that in environmental matters European legislation is very dynamic and subject to successive changes and increases in requirements, and the aspect of waste is no exception to this. The first objective that this law had to have was to minimize the negative effects of waste generation, both on human health and on the environment, but also, in line with the principles that govern the circular economy, it had to be a strategic and determined commitment by the Government of the Union to make efficient use of resources and good coordination with the rest of public entities -- and I refer to the councils and the four deputies -- as well as to seek and encourage the involvement and commitment of all economic and social agents, and essentially also the involvement of citizenship. And we don't see this reflected in this law. At this point we cannot understand how this regulation leaves waste management at the margins, as I have already insisted on other interventions, the management of the use of plastic. Plastic is a matter that is very present in our lives, and has beneficial effects, as can be effects at the level of ease of transport or food conservation, but it also presents serious environmental problems, because it is a material that is fragmented into many particles and which, in addition, deteriorates very slowly. The European Directive of the Year 2019, which is the Framework Directive, has set a clear strategy for moving forward against the plastic sector and moving towards a more circular plastic sector and being able to fight mainly against marine pollution from these plastics. We therefore do not understand how European regulation cannot be included in the articulate of this law, especially in terms of Galicia, a place where we have marine wealth and where this problem affects us a lot more. [[Applause]] With regard to local authorities, this law should also require greater inter-administrative coordination, regulate mechanisms to achieve sufficient funding and enable municipalities to participate in autonomic plans, because they need to take into account the specialities of each of the territories and also increase the level of demand towards the municipalities and towards their management. In relation to the absence of involvement of the councils and citizenship, not only do we, the socialists, but the dictates of the Economic and Social Council that accompanied this draft law criticized this in its general considerations. On the one hand, there was criticism of the lack of real measures for environmental adequacy and training, the lack of coordination with other autonomous communities, or insufficient funding for the municipalities. He also criticized the administration's low ambition for ensuring access to information, and also criticized the lack of participation, as stated at the outset, of the municipalities in this management. We understand that it is also lacking in this law to focus on aspects such as the need to share citizenship in this work, through the creation of awareness-raising campaigns for their integration, programmes for the protection of the marine environment, or in the matter of water. There is also a need to make available to the citizen information on the prevention of waste generation, its appropriate separation in origin, or possible reuse and recycling; or campaigns that promote active participation in actions to reduce the production of waste, information on its danger, training of preparedness actions for reuse, or on the implementation of selective collection. And all of this, besides, with a joint like this, which, with what it spends on advertising, I think it wouldn't be hard for him. We don't understand it doesn't appear in this law. On the other hand, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, one of the main reasons for opposition and our position against this law is the model of management. We have a management model different from the current concentration model, the Sogama model, which continues to maintain this law. We bet on a more model of adequacy and proximity, without prejudice, of course, of the management hierarchy that must prevail. But we consider it more appropriate to put together a given territorial scope to achieve a better economies of scale, betting on smaller, comarcal or provincial facilities, according to the territory, and distributed around our country, which, on the other hand, we also understand that they would contribute to generating jobs in different territories, and we would bet on a network of waste recovery in installations, as I said, smaller ones. If this is not possible, apart from waste that cannot be valued or the remaining fraction, it should be transferred to a more centralized facility, which uses technologies in the right means, to ensure a high level of protection of public health and the environment. And always, of course, refusing incineration, because of the environmental impact it produces. We defend this decentralization, because, in addition to our understanding that it must be environmentally more sustainable, it also saves transport costs and generates jobs in different territories. On the other hand, it is also fundamental -- we understand -- for an effective waste management policy, a regulation that I put forward in prevention measures, including concrete and quantifiable targets. In this respect, we believe that the law is not ambitious, if we compare it not only with the European framework directive, but also with other autonomous regulations. This prevention must focus both on producers, third sector, and citizenship, and legislation must regulate the promotion of sustainable production and consumption models. It fails to bet on R & D investments, in order to achieve technical improvements that produce the design of products that are efficient and durable in terms of useful life, and a reduction of industrial waste in mining or construction. It has to be done a special fine-tuned package reduction, promoting the use of drinking water sources, reusable packaging, especially in sectors such as hospitality or catering. I also insist again -- as I have already done in other interventions -- on the need to regulate environmental taxation -- and so we have seen it in our amendments -- by establishing tax figures; tax figures used as a complementary economic instrument, to help protect and defend the environment. We know that they may not be politically profitable at first, but they are effective in order to stimulate and encourage more respectful behaviors with the natural environment. In addition, we understand that these tax figures must be complemented with others, such as subsidies or tax exemptions for companies that meet certain environmental objectives, and always under the principle of transparency, as we insist on our amendments. And finally I wanted to include in my speech an aspect that I don't think we should leave behind this regulation, which is the new circumstance in which we find ourselves, the new social and health circumstance in which we find ourselves, and I mean the pandemic of the vault-19, which, although we all hope is a temporary situation, we have to have planned for future similar situations, and also prevention. The fight against this pandemic we all know that caused an increase in certain types of waste, in particular, I refer to plastics of one use, such as gloves, blankets, protective screens, and I don't mean the health use of these, because health use we all know that it has a specific regulation, but I mean that these products have become part of our lives and therefore become ordinary waste. The demand for these products we all know has multiplied, and this is a serious pollution problem because, in addition, many of them are not recyclable. I believe that if we do not efficiently regulate the management of these new wastes as a result of the environment, it can be devastating. And I conclude from the beginning that our will has been to help improve this bill, adapt it to times and make it more ambitious to achieve the main goal, which has to be the defense of our environment. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u7	Good morning. Thank you, President. We have to start by saying that we are not going to support this law, and we are not going to support it because it is not Galician waste law, it is the People's Party waste law, and because, in addition, as we have already told you in the previous debate, it is a Pleistocene law, it is an outdated, obsolete, old-fashioned law of the past, which does not take into account the new reality in which we are and all the changes that have been made in recent times. BNG has really serious differences with regard to this text, but we also want to point out the issues in terms of form, because the forms in politics are important, and the truth is that you didn't take care of them in the process of this law. Indeed, they did not make any effort to reach any agreement, and this, indeed, we deeply regret it, because you practice Parliament's overcrowding, and we prove it again and again in the processing of the laws. You are increasingly trying to eliminate the separation of powers between the executive and the legislature, and you are giving Parliament the procedures for handling, discussing and discussing improvements to the laws which Parliament has established, and to us this seems deeply regrettable. First of all, you are violating and vetoing parliamentary procedures for the debate of laws. We've told them on many occasions, and we repeat it to them again. We have made a proposal to the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate in the committee with the audience and the attendance of up to 12 people representing different institutions and sectors, starting with the Government itself, Sogama and the general management, and you have vetoed them. And what was the problem with 12 people coming to Parliament to talk about this law, about waste policy? The problem is that you have an allergy to participation, you ban participation, debate, dialogue, contrasting ideas. [[Applause]] They're afraid of it! Why are you afraid of him? You yourself ignore and despise reasonable approaches -- not others, but in this case they were reasonable approaches to "Lexisla with us"-- They literally throw them in the trash can! It's a contempt for people of good faith who want to get close. They don't mind handling them, discussing them, discussing them in the P.O. And they show an absolute lack of flexibility and a worrying lack of dialogue. Look, let's say it's active, passive and periphery: there would be a minimum social, institutional and political agreement on the issue of waste in Galicia. But there can't be that because you veto that debate and that possibility of minimum agreement. And, look, a minimum agreement wouldn't even be that we voted in favour of this law, because there might be important fundamental differences, but it would be, at least, that we abstained, and it won't be possible for us to abstain because you didn't make the slightest effort to get to that position. You do what you do is use the absolute majority to impose. For you, it's purely arithmetic, and this isn't arithmetic, it's not numbers, it's not mathematics; it's democratic. You use that absolute majority to win and not to convince, because there are lots of sectors of Galician society that don't convince us of their solutions. Because, moreover, they are failed solutions, they are solutions that are being called into question by all European institutions and directives. And you're still wrong that you're wrong, you're wrong! Its mistakes are wrong to fail to burn and incinerate, in the Sogama solution, which gives us the data we already know, which is at the queue of the state and Europe. But besides, this data is not from the BNG, it's official data. And do you know what position we are in the state as to the targets marked by the European Union by 2020 of 50% of recycling? We're closed, to get down to the second division; we're in the last seats, only better than Ceuta and Melilla. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a chart.]] But do you think this is something to boast about, to come here and pretend? Galicia is in line, and there are communities in the Champions, which run over 40% or 50% of the targets marked by the European Union. They're here, they're the statistics of Miteco; we're not making anything up. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the chart again.]] You're here on this graph: Catalonia, Valencian Community or the Navarre Community are in the best positions, playing at the Champions; and we're in line. So we can't give a good look, congratulations and approval to this model, because it's a failed model. Here are the data, that they don't lie; the figures, that they don't lie; and this can't overwrite us, because it's official data. Look, I'm telling you more. Galician data is improved -- because if it were for Sogama, we would still be worse -- by the data from Lousame, which is not a perfect model either, because we're not for that model either, that needs to be perfected, but it improves data from the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Yes, Counselor, don't look in his face because someone's got a lot of a face here.; for example, yesterday's death on the eve of the debate of this law calls on Fegamp -- or, better said, the president of Fegamp -- to put the issue of taxes, taxes, waste taxation into the debate. But if that marks it the European Union! Let's put a tax on incineration and the greenery of waste! Oh, yes! Let the European Union mark it! That I have here, and I can read it in the Waste Directive and the Circular Economy Directive! He says that the solution of incineration and landfill must be the last solution and that tax measures must be sought to disincentive it. It's a European directive, and you don't want to know! It's just that you have to Europeanize them in waste because you're in the Pleistocene. It's incredible that the BNG, who you blame for being anti-European, has to give you lessons in Europeanism here! [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, it's just like that. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, it's not just for the European Union to tell you, who's going to tell you now is state law, applying the European directive: that we have to impose, and that's under the model of Sogama, of incineration. Because for you now, what is perverseness? I mean, you're going to tax us and then it's going to be more expensive to treat garbage? But they'll have a face! The problem is that tax is incineration. If we stop incinerating, we don't pay taxes and, therefore, we have a better system, which already exists. That's the reality. [[Applause]] But I'm telling you more -- to see all its inconsistencies -- is that you, in the circular economy strategy. They put that in, that a study had to be done to impose a charge on incineration and on the dump. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows another document.]] You put them in and they said they were going to do a study in 2020! And where is this study, Counselor and Lords of the People's Party? Where is he? You put it into your own strategy, which doesn't even meet your own strategy; you don't meet your own waste plan, which spoke of what 12 treatment plants would have to do in Galicia for composting. You guys did one, but if you want, I'll tell you one day -- I don't have time today -- how much trash it takes there, apart from what Carballo brings. It's designed for 15,000 tons, and in the year they're just going to take it there, it doesn't reach 1,000, because most of the municipalities are not taking it. No, it's not our fault. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The fault is not to have a model, to involve everyone, to talk to everyone, because there are Champions models in Galicia -- I've told you again -- there are municipalities in Galicia that have Champions policies, like, for example, the Revitalized Model of the Pontevedra Deputy, like, for example, Allariz RE. By the way, Allariz RE was made with very little resources. It's a small council -- they talked about small councils -- and it's an example; I went there to see it. I invite you to see him there because he'd really be opened to you what you can do with little resources and with a lot of conviction, with a lot of commitment to this country. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And see if they're a model, if they're Champions, that there's an organization, a consultant in Europe, called Zero Waste, which is the European Union's waste consultant, who said that Revitalize policy is the European superpolicy on waste and will end up being implemented throughout Europe. They're coming here from all over the world to see that model. And now, finally, thanks to the debate we had here, at least they were already worthy to answer their calls, talk to them and sit with them -- that there were meetings that I think will be positive -- and surely something is learned about these issues. Anyway, they don't even comply with what they've put in their own documents. In addition, I told you again that in Revitalisa, in the most advanced municipalities, they go over 40% -- Allariz is also in those figures --, when the European Union's 2020 target was 50%, and they're the best in Galicia. In the province of Pontevedra there are Town Councils of the People's Party in Phase 1. It's not a matter of the Town Councils of the BNG, PSOE Town Councils or People's Party Town Councils; there's, in phase one, in the most advanced phase of Revitalize -- municipalities like The Snows, like The Grove, like Mondariz, like Mondariz Balneario, and now there's also Valga -- a determination to be in those early positions as well. That is, there are councils of the People's Party that also apply this question of rationality, common sense, of solutions of all life, of treating waste, the closer, the better, because that is the fundamental principle of waste management. Two questions: self-sufficiency and proximity, which you also put in the Territorial Management Guidelines, which would have to have a model based on decentralization, self-sufficiency, proximity -- the closer, the better. So this is the reality. They don't have you either -- I talked about bioresidues above all -- no strategy on plastics, which is another big problem -- if it's not the most important -- that we have right now, and there's no strategy in this country about it. And besides, you shielded a system in the law, which is Ecoumbes, which goes against all the criteria of good management in recycling, because they have about 30% of light packaging recovery. And it's a real monopoly, with behaviors we can say they border the mobster. You know perfectly well who you are, who is part of Ecoembes, who are all multinationals and large waste producers, and who charge for packaging and packaging, not for packaging recycling; therefore, it is a perverse procedure. They manage more than 500 million euros and their results are 30% recovery from these materials, when deposit, return and return systems are installed in most European countries, with recovery figures of more than 80%. We put it in an amendment and you partially accepted that amendment, but then they had a misunderstanding and they told us they didn't accept it. So, just if we have a reason for this, and you've been called by Ecoumbes' phone and told them, "Hey, this can't be, how are you going to put something against our interests?" And they've gone back to something they've already accepted. [[Applause]] It's like that, like that! [[Applause]] It happened that way! "That's how we told him. So it was and so we told him," as he said or spokesperson. [[Applause]] Well, we could talk about industrial waste, we could talk about the muds of the debuggers, which don't appear anywhere, and that's another serious problem; besides, that can be treated on site too, that can be treated to generate energy and to generate compost, and not that disaster that is -- that I've already given you the data-- Sogama, which treats more than 800,000 tons of waste and more than 60% will burn, and the rest, most of it, go to a dump. Only 11 % is recycled. That's the reality. Finally, that does not speak of the law nor does it deal with the subject of waste construction and demolition. This is a small summary of all the great problems you have. And, look, our model -- then in the next intervention, I'll tell you about proposals that would be the basis of what BNG proposes to have a big country deal -- like Revitalize, it's based on three main principles, three gold rules: the first one, is that the best residue is what doesn't happen; therefore, the greatest effort is to do it in prevention, not in waste management. Second, in case of occurrence, the best residue is what cannot be collected because it is in situ; logically, there is also community composting, which is the great bet, the great discovery of Revitalize, apart from home composting. And the third rule of gold is that, in case you collect, the best residue is what you don't have to transport logically, because that also has a very high cost, which is one of the great loads of your model. So this is a law -- and I'm done now -- which is born old before birth because they're going to have to change it very soon, when the new state law is passed. By the way, a state law that has already taken too long, which is in a very early process, is not yet in the process of parliamentary debate. Since 2018 they had time to have a new law, and that's a critique that we have to do to the central government, but it does not exempt from responsibilities to the Galician Union, because this law was already old when it was registered, which is a written law in 2018 -- and little has changed since that -- but it's made itself very old, very old, very old, after all that's going on at the moment, and compels us to jump into these superpolitics that we have to do in this country to give it a great change, a great transformation, and one of them has to change the way of understanding waste, which is not waste, that are resources and, therefore, into this great bet we have to have for the circular economy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u9	...to take advantage of all the potential they have. This is our proposal, this is our model, and we're going to keep fighting for it every day, as we're already doing in practice in many municipalities and institutions in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u10	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to begin -- as Mrs. Castro did -- by congratulating all of you on the good tone we had at the briefings and by congratulating also, of course, the Environment Adviser, Territory and Living and all of your team on the achievement of this important bill that will be passed today in this parliamentary session. As for Mr Bará, I have already answered what you say about the veto to appearances. It's not like that. You are not used to register without prior consenting to a register of appearances on your account and at your risk. I've already responded to you at one of the briefings about what you were asking for. I asked you to come here personally from the Council that you were responsible for drafting this law, Fegamp's staff, to whom the law was sent -- that, of course, you did not make any allegations, while there were, on your own, councils that did so-- and also associations, who claimed during the public exhibition phase, and who were answered from the Council with detailed reasoning that they were not accepted for their approach. The feeling that you, Mr Bará, once again, with this and all the legislative procedures that we are discussing, is that you want to obstruct a legislative procedure without any reason. Look, with regard to the approaches to Lexisla with us, the allegations turned out to be associations, as it was said, that they had already done in the bill's exposition process and, I insist, we greatly appreciate the contributions they have made, but they have been analyzed before, they have now been analyzed and considered not to be included because they did not match the purpose or objectives of this law. The least agreement, Mr Bará, for you was the elimination of Sogama and the elimination of incineration and, as you will understand... you came with the predisposition to vote that you did not, making those amendments. So, look, this law, the law that we are going to pass here today, is the law of all the Greeks, Your Honor, the waste law of most of the Greeks, Mr Bará, and that must accept it. Galicia has always been in the vanguard of European waste requirements since 2010, the year in which the Galicia Urban Waste Management Plan was designed, through the approval in 2016 of the Industrial Waste Plan or in 2019 for the implementation of climate change strategies and circular economy. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, culminates with this law a new legal framework fully adapted to European Community legislation, which is moving towards a model change based on the circular economy and which is called upon to be the only model of the future possible. With the approval of this new Waste and Contaminated Land Act of Galicia, we will leave behind a law of more than twelve years ago, in which the issues relating to waste management have changed a lot. And we are also moving forward, Mrs Castro, to the adoption of the State basic legislation, which should have been adopted since June 2020, and which is not; and we doubt that it is in force by the year 2021. It's just an articulate text that didn't go through the Council of Ministers and that in 2021 it should be approved, but we doubt it's going to be that way. So, Galicia is a pioneer because it advances to that state basic legislation that should be approved by now. The bill that is being discussed today in this Parliament has a particular impact on waste management objectives, primarily enhancing prevention. The main lines of action and the objectives introduced in this law are: in terms of waste management, for example, it is added in five years -- from 2030 to 2025 -- the target of reduction of waste produced to 15 %, the 2010 data. Furthermore, Galicia aims to achieve in 2025 that 55 % of the textile waste of electrical appliances and furniture are introduced into the repair chain for reuse, and 60 %, by 2030. It also reflects the progressive increase in the re-use or material valuation of non-hazardous construction waste -- Mr Bará, I think you haven't read the law -- up to 75% in 2025, compared to 70% proposed by the state. It also sets recycling targets, betting on being able to boost the recycling of packaging waste and recycling 65%, with the target in 2025. As regards the shipment of waste to the landfill, with the same European targets, it is clear that 10 % of the amount of waste generated is sent to the landfill, and it should be noted that since 2009, the Government of Greece has put an end to the landfills and advanced towards proper waste management. The greenery model is over, and more than a thousand uncontrolled dumping points have been removed in Galicia. The future law also lays the groundwork for plants to reach the zero technical level in the year 2035, an objective that Sogama, ladies and gentlemen, is about to achieve, fifteen years before what marks the European Union. With regard to collaboration with the municipalities, of course, that with this law collaboration, support and coordination with the municipalities remains a priority, recognizing that it is a municipal competition, which is one of the problems the municipalities have in their day-to-day life. One of the main points of collaboration between the Union and local authorities continues to be the management of bioresidues, since municipalities must establish the separate collection at the end of 2023. As for plastics, another of the basic objectives of this text is to drastically reduce its consumption of just one use, and therefore the law prohibits the free delivery of plastic bags and the sale of single use plastic vases. To curb food waste is another of the waste that the Government of Greece wants to respond to with this law, because one third of the food produced in the world is lost or wasted, which is equivalent to 1,300 million tons a year. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to reduce the loss of food. Besides, as citizens, we must be more responsible for our buying habits. In order to achieve this objective of reducing food waste, the law states that in the year 2025 we will have to reduce by 30% the volume of food waste that we generate over the year 2010. In order to achieve this, the owners of catering establishments will be obliged to deliver, if the customer so requests, the surplus feed rations not consumed on the site. And they should do it in composite containers at 50 % of biodegradable, never plastic material. In addition, a code of good practice will be promoted in relation to food surpluses. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, training and environmental education is very important, as it will enhance the consumption of raw materials and products from an increasingly responsible perspective. And, in fact, the law bets on pushing younger people to act as catalysts for a better future, which is what belongs to them and is what they deserve. The law highlights the commitment by a sustainable and environmentally friendly administration, including measures such as the use of green energy and also promoting so-called green public procurement. It also plays something very important, such as soil pollution. It focuses on the prevention and contamination of these, and establishes that soils should preserve their natural functions as much as possible and recover using the best possible techniques. On this issue we have come to an important deal with the opposition groups, because the proposal has added to it the realization of a map of contaminated and modified soils that will include all information on the type of contaminants and risks to health and the environment. It's also about the land quality log. This complements, in conjunction with the provisions of the law, a sanctioning regime that defines new sanctions for contaminated soils with a maximum content that can reach up to 1.7 million euros in the case of a serious pollution penalty. Speaking already of the amendments of the opposition groups, I will start a little by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, which focused their amendments on the objectives of waste and plastics of the articulated text of the Central Government -- by the way, as I said before, without approval. I have to tell you, Mrs Castro, although I have already commented on it in the debate of the Commission, that in some cases this bill is more restrictive, in others it coincides with the articulated text of the State, and at least it is less restrictive. The most restrictive objectives of the Greek law compared to the state articulate are, for example, that in the progressive reduction of the weight of waste produced this law says that, by 2025, 15% reduction compared to those generated in 2010, and the state sets this target by 2030. Therefore, it is more restrictive to the law of Galicia, since it is five years ahead of the 15% reduction. Another example. On the progressive increase in the amount of non-hazardous waste of construction and demolition for the preparation, reuse, recycling and other types of material recovery, the Greek law requires to reach before 2025 or 75 % and the national fixes 70 %. It's more restrictive of the Welsh law, since it sets that 75%. Another one. On the reduction of food waste, the owners of restoration establishments with the Greek law are obliged to offer the delivery of the waste to the customer, and with the state, nothing, obliges nothing in particular. In other purposes it is more restrictive than that of the state. In the case of bioresidues, the Greek law says that the municipalities must establish separate selective collection by December 31, 2023, and state legislation makes differentiation in the municipalities of more than 5,000 inhabitants, which will force them to do so in 2021. We believe, Your Honor, that this goal is very difficult to achieve and, of course, it is not really being in the municipalities or being next to them. Another example of difficult compliance with municipal waste for the re-use and recycling of the following fractions, such as paper, metals, glass, plastics and bio-waste and other wastes which may be prepared for re-use, the Greek law says that at least 50 % by weight in 2020 corresponds to the preparation for the re-use mainly of textile waste, waste of electrical, electronic and furniture, 55 % in the year 2025 and 60 % in the year 2030. The articulated text is much more restrictive, since it imposes the percentage of preparation for use for the years 2025 and 2030 and sets targets for the year 2035. We agree with the state text on other things such as targets on textile waste, hazardous waste, tyre recycling or used industrial oil. To the other amendments that you have tabled, those of the plastics, I have already responded to them in the Commission. The justification for not accepting these amendments is that most of them refer to production or marketing, and the Government is obliged to ensure market unity and that measures do not cause rupture in the European internal market, so this law could not only collect these approaches, but rather what could happen is that it would be immediately collected for taking on competences which do not correspond to it. As for tax measures, they proposed a large battery of tax measures, knowing that it is being regulated in that state articulated text and that at the moment it cannot be included basically by the harmonisation criterion, so that there are no territorial differences in the whole autonomous communities. We bet on the market unit and we believe that taxation must be homogenously regulated across the state. Anyway, the German Government, ladies and gentlemen -- here goes for both of us -- bet on awarding the councils that recycle and not imposing taxes, especially at the time we are today. The incineration tax, Mr Bará, and the disposal in the dump is the tax you referred to. We are more than rewarding and not imposing taxes, especially in the times we live. As for the amendments to BNG, I mean, it was very complicated to contemplate more than we admitted during the P.O.P., because basically -- I was telling you -- the proposal was to eliminate Sogama and energy recovery. And with that predisposition, Mr Bará, it was impossible to reach an agreement with you. What we're not going to do is the law of BNG, because that's not the law of the Greeks, Your Honor. It's neither what the Greeks want nor what they don't even support most of the municipalities in which you rule. Because you teach me a table, but I have to teach you this one. This is the map of Galicia, and these are all the municipalities that are attached to Sogama, Mr Bará. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a map of Galicia.]] And I'm going to teach you every time we talk about it; I'm going to teach you, because it's time for you to recognize and value Sogama, that your mayors, where they rule, do they recognize you, Mr Bará. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You propose the creation of another agency. They propose to eliminate Sogama but to create another agency, but the creation of this agency is not considered, since the Environmental and Sogama Council can ensure the full application of this law, promoting above all the hierarchical order established by the European Union, such as prevention, firstly, preparation for reuse and then recycling, which complements the energy use of the non-recyclable fraction; relegating the disposal of the waste to the last place, especially because of its negative impact on environment and health. And the example I tell you about the Sogama model is the accession of 295 municipalities of all political colour. I insist, municipalities that have the competence of managing household, urban and assimilated waste. Councils that decided at the time to entrust Sogama with the management of the remaining fraction remain attached to this day. For example, speaking of the Bipartite -- which must be remembered -- you ruled and didn't eliminate Sogama. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that with you... No, no, it's not obsession. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've only ruled for four years, and not so long, because from 2005 to... No, no, there's not that much. [[Murmurs.]] It's not from the last century. You talk here about Aznar constantly; for this is much closer to us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] See, in 2008 Sogama carried 46% of the waste it received to the dump. In 2019, direct dumping was only 5%. We can put in value what leads to the dump in Nostián, in Coruña, with 47%, or in Lousame, 61%. I tell you, Sogama will arrive this year at technical level zero, fifteen years before the European Parliament set up for the whole of the Member States. Yes, ladies. That goal was set for 2035, and in Galicia it's already reached. This means that in Galicia the duties were made, and this was the result of the investment, the work and the government's bet on Galician union by this system, lords, of waste management. [[Applause]] As for the issue of energy recovery, which you so much criticized and which was key to the management of the wastes that it was unfortunately done with the pandemic that touched us to live, in other places they piled up the wastes and we had to see how that was really another catastrophe, apart from the pandemic, but in Sogama it didn't happen, and it was thanks to energy recovery, that which they now want to tax, which is going to translate into a climb of garbage for all citizens. But now you see that they bet on that model, especially the gentlemen of the BNG. So, ladies and gentlemen, it was very difficult to get to more, because the amendments of the two parties really focused on the elimination of Sogama and on the hatred that they have for energy valorization, which is admitted by the European Union at all... Look, I invite them to look at the number of nicknames in the most advanced countries in Europe, like Germany, Denmark...; those that are constantly setting the example for what they want, when they're good for them -- when they don't suit them, they don't put it as an example-- I insist that you look at the number of sodas in these countries. It's over. I think you've reached the Phoenicia of this law with the predisposition of voting that you're not, on the same line as you're doing with all the bills that the Government or this parliamentary group is bringing to this House. In our humble opinion, I don't think there's been an alternative to the Sogama model, which you criticize so much, and tell it the data I'm going to give you in detail in my next intervention. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u13	Thank you again, President. Look, Mrs. Novoa, I'm glad that you couldn't even deny -- yes, it was sincere -- nor override the total unilaterality of this law and the total lack of flexibility and effort to achieve consensus and incorporate new points of view. This attitude is what makes this project, among other things, lacks something as fundamental as the prospect of fighting against climate change. But, well, we already know that the People's Party is not very clear about climate change. Not as long ago as you spoke, nearer than the Bipartite, he was such a president of the People's Party -- than they now deny, Mr. Rajoy-- that he denied or had as a guru of climate change his cousin. There are also other important issues, such as the employment perspective, because in waste management policy, waste prevention, recycling, recovery, there is an enormous opportunity to create jobs, to create companies in Galicia. The Government of the Union must commit itself to the incorporation of the ecodesign and require the most responsible behaviors to producers, as we said. The business sector in this area, of management, has to be more responsible, but it also needs to be helped by the Administration in order to increase investment in innovation in order not only to make things better at the environmental level, which is very important, but also to be able to generate a more competitive productive sector. That is why, from the Socialist Group, for all these reasons I have argued, we have made a negative assessment of this bill, this law, because we are not taking into account the enormous environmental and economic implications that waste management has to have in a horizontal way, which affects all sectors of economic activity. At this point, we find ourselves in a context where waste production -- and we'll all agree -- is constantly increasing and economic activity linked to them is becoming increasingly important, both because of its scale and its direct impact on the economic model. You in this law are on your way. We need to contemplate environmental renewal as the basic axis of our economy. We have lost a huge opportunity to generate jobs and we have lost the opportunity to take advantage of the potential of the environmental sector, of the waste sector, to help overcome this economic crisis that is ahead of us. The PP, therefore, loses the opportunity to move forward towards a new paradigm, towards a coefficient economy. We also need serious aspects, as I said, such as environmental taxation, and that is why we proposed it was a green tax, as I said, a tax as a complementary economic instrument to stimulate and encourage more respectful behaviour with the natural environment. But it is not, as you said, to cover taxes of a state nature, but to coordinate them as autonomous taxes, as other autonomous communities are doing. The objective of this Waste Law must also be to enhance, as previously said and shared with the fellow BNG, prevention, prevention, reuse and recycling of waste, so it is necessary to avoid incineration and dumping, as the Government of the United Nations is currently doing with its Sogama model, which continues to perpetuate this law. And related to this is the transfer of waste to the disposal. A more decentralized approach is needed. We need management based on the principles of self-sufficiency and proximity, or an integrated network of comarcal or provincial facilities according to the territory, which is most convenient. The law is also insufficient in the regulation of bioresidues. Bet for selective collection and composting of all organic matter, despite having models that are working in our territory, such as the Revitalization Plan of the Pontevedra Deputy. We'll follow the tail of all Spain. The lack of self-sustainment in the management of bioresidues by local authorities, the need for coordination... we need greater coordination in this area of waste and also more collaboration and cooperation between administrations. But, well, we already know that at the Galician Council this is to coordinate with the municipalities and the deputies is not good enough, and the clear example was Mr Rueda's last week's attitude. If you don't coordinate for something as urgent as can be the aid to the lodgers, who are going through a terrible situation, less will be coordinated to manage the waste. [[Applause]] We have lost the opportunity to raise awareness of citizenship and transform the idea of waste, so that they can be removed from raw materials. As far as plastic regulation is concerned, it's not true what you say. It is not a lack of autonomous competition, and you can only see the reflection in other autonomous communities that regulate it, such as the Basque Country, Balearic Islands, Madrid, Catalonia or Navarre. In short, this law was made in 2018 and was now approved in 2021. Over the course of this time, a great deal of environmental advances and updates have been made in waste management that have not been adapted into this law. So today a law is likely to be passed which, in a few months' time, when state legislation comes into force by the transposition of the European directive, will become obsolete. So we're going to pass a law that will only be in force and will be obsolete within a couple of months. I think this is what I think is that they had a law made, that they had a draft on the table since 2018, and that this is another example of makeup and washing towards what the People's Party has used to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u15	Finally, Galicia loses an opportunity to put us on the European line, on the line of other autonomous communities, in modernising waste regulation and in consolidating a more sustainable management model, in line with European policies. I'm very sorry, but we have to vote against it, and I'm sorry too, but I'm done with the feeling that Galicia has lost a great opportunity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u17	Mrs. Novoa, I don't know if you're hearing the power division, Montesquieu: executive, legislative and judicial. Now we should talk about other powers. But, well, at least, we remain executive and legislative. You don't understand or don't want to understand that one thing is the Executive and the process that the Executive makes, the processes of participation and information that the Executive has, and another is later, when the law enters Parliament, which is the Legislative that commands and it's the Lexislative who has to decide; not the Executive, that phase has passed. If there was participation in the phase in which the Executive handled the processing of the bill, it's now the Lexislativo. And Parliament's regulation provides for a number of channels for public participation that you veto. That's the reality, so simple. What are the rules for? What is expected of this formula of public hearing for participation in parliamentary proceedings? Because the text from 2018 until now could have changed a lot in the previous process that the Executive handled. So it's about discussing it. I don't know what they mean here. We proposed twelve participations, twelve participants in that audience. It wasn't a closed list, they could propose others, we could come to an agreement on who to come. We also said that this meant a month in the parliamentary process. It's not a problem of delaying anything, it's a problem of participation. You have an allergy to participation and systematically veto your participation in Parliament. That's the reality, nothing more than that. And, of course, then they come here with stories of technical zero. But what is that of the technical zero, what are the andromenas coming here to invent from the technical zero? I'm going to give you the data, the official data published by Sogama, we published by INE, published by Miteco. Sogama is a great greenhouse plant, it's a great climate change factory, because it emits thousands and thousands of tons of greenhouse gases, more than 300,000 tons of CO2 per year, of greenhouse gases. But it's just that, besides, Sogama dumps -- because there are tons and tons in Sogama as well -- not thousands of tons, millions of tons accumulated year after year -- what kind of zero technical discharge when we have in Areosa dumps over 5.6 million tons of garbage dumps, waste from incineration and plant wastes? But what are you talking about technical zero? What do you want to invent with that? What parallel reality do you want to invent with that? Finally, let your reasonings, your arguments, fall by their own weight. And the BNG actually made a proposal to turn Sogama into something else, to turn Sogama into an agency of waste and the circular economy. We were talking about a deal to do it, not like something automatic, but you didn't even sit down and discuss whether it was possible to reach some kind of agreement on some alternative formula to which there is now, which will also be mandatory. They fall once the horse, it's going to be mandatory, they're going to have to change that system, there's nothing else left, like they're going to have to impose because it's not something coming into state law, and it's something derived from European legislation. And it is also beneficial to explain and understand well, because it serves to penalise those procedures that are at the last place of the waste hierarchy and encourage those who are in the first stage: prevention, reduction, reuse, recycling. For that, it has to be that tax, to dominate that. So people will produce less waste and, therefore, people will pay less for waste. That's the philosophy of these systems. And, look, our amendments were to bet on the proximity treatment, on the on-site treatment, to bet -- at least on a complementary formula -- on the deposit, return and return system, which you watched after you accepted it, to make a strategy about plastics, to have much more ambitious targets in reducing food waste; not only on that question of restaurants, but on all food waste, starting with production itself, and to see how we can reduce it, as we can take better advantage of it, that there are now experiences that tell us a lot in this direction. Also to have an alternative about the waste of construction and demolition, because it's not worth the majority solution of voting on a canter, which is what you're doing; it's also to really encourage green public purchase -- and we've made amendments in this respect -- to encourage participation -- and we've proposed the creation of a Galician waste commission where there's a plural participation of all society and all institutions, and you've banned it -- to create that rate, to create a fund of waste, to promote all these policies of the circular economy, which would generate thousands of jobs, because you're talking about Sogama creating 500 jobs and other 500 indirect jobs. But these circular economic policies can create thousands of jobs if they do well, and you veto that possibility to transform Sogama into the Welsh waste and circular economy agency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u19	Finally -- Mr President, to make advanced proposals, realistic, possible, contrasting, successful, efficient, environmentally friendly and that would allow -- they are doing so in some cases -- to put Galicia in the head of Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u20	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u21	Thank you, President. The truth is, Mr Bará, you're not worth any legislating procedure. If it's the law of measures, it's not worth it; if we bring the law through non-law proposition, it's not worth it... whenever the minority of BNG is not represented, it's not worth it. [[Applause]] This law, Mrs Castro, meets all European standards, and we are pioneers, we are the first community. I feel like you're upset to say we're pioneers. It's just that the State Government could have passed it a long time ago, but it's about other things: it's modifying the Criminal Code to see if some prisoners are released, it's modifying the Judiciary Council, to see if... No, no... yes, yes, it's other things, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] That's what happens. [[Applause]] Look, Rajoy won't take behind you the industrial desert that you are causing by the extreme energy transition to which you are submitting to Galicia. That's not gonna stay in Rajoy's DNA, it's gonna stay in Mr. Sánchez's DNA and Mr. Caballero's DNA. You'll stay on it, Your Honor. The industrial desert... that's your commitment to climate change, to generate unemployment. [[Applause]] Look, what I always tell you, Mr Bará, is that Sogama's best proof of sustainability is the voluntary accession of 295 municipalities, and I'm going to repeat it constantly, 94% of the total, and 2.2 million inhabitants. The municipalities have exclusive waste competences and decide to voluntarily adhere to Sogama's management, and there is no commitment to accession in what they say if they have to deliver a series or a certain volume of waste. There isn't; then, they could choose other models. But, Mr. Bará, to you, who so much boasts of the Plan Revitaliza, I'm going to give you the data of the Plan Revitaliza. We were asking you the other day in the Commission and we left them for today so that they might be properly filmed. Look, let's start with Pontevedra city: reduction of shipments to Sogama, -4.06%; budget spent on community and domestic composting programs, 2 million euros -- the Plan Revitalizes-- Pontevedra is the third largest city in Greece. Santiago, 10 % -- low--; Vigo, the -5,89, and Ourense, the -5,4. No one has a Revitalized Plan. But Pontevedra province, 13 million euros devoted to the Plan Revitaliza, the addition of reduction and recycling in organic matter that was unable or able to comply with the first R, that of reduction. [[Murmurs.]] He wasn't even able to fulfill the first R. Pontevedra province has only reduced its uploads to Cerceda by 0.86 %. Place, without Plan Revitalize, has reduced uploads to Sogama by 1.47%. But it's just that, if it wasn't for Vigo -- Vigo isn't in line with the Revitalization Plan, which makes it clear to everyone -- by Vigo's reduction, Pontevedra would not only not lower his shipments to Sogama, it would increase them by 3,500 tons! Please! [[Protests.]] It's good to lie to our face. [[Applause]] I've got the taboo too, Mr. Bará, step on it later. It's good to come here and assume something they haven't done, and they're still in the same carnage. Look, gentlemen, they also criticize incineration constantly, energy enhancement, which is the penultimate step. The last is the disposal of the dump, which you know a lot about. In 2009 the Areosa dump was exhausted, everything was put there. You can't teach us lessons from anything. Look, the incineration has it in six Spanish communities, including the Basque Country... and who do you copy? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that they come here and tell us about a bat as if we were the only ones we burned here... but if there are six communities in Spain that are doing it, ladies and gentlemen, and among them the Basque Country! [[Murmurs.]] Look, incineration is allowed by the European Union, they don't come here telling us lies. No, it's the penultimate step. We promote prevention, we promote reuse and recycling, and, when you can't do any more, you have to incinerate or go to the dump, and you don't come to tell anybody about the film here. That's what's happening, and you don't get to brag. We agree to support the councils, and go ahead with the Government's commitment, in particular the Environmental Council, to its plan and the exhibition you made here of budgets, to those who devote a lot of millions of euros -- 35 million euros to the React Plan -- to plant in various areas of Galicia. There's one in the province of Pontevedra who already has the project bid. We agree with the compost, which cannot be trusted all that, as you do. And they come here to convince us that I don't know what, or, as you said in the commission, that Mondariz Balneario was the one that had most reduced him. Home!, but, ladies, you must see the population of Mondariz Balneario. The data is that, the reduction in the province of Pontevedra was 0.86% of the shipment to Sogama, and thanks to Vigo, who is not on the Plan Revitaliza, Mr Bará. And as much as you come here saying a thousand times a lie, it won't be reality. Look, ladies and gentlemen, today we are finishing the process of this law, in which I believe they have had the opportunity to present an alternative plan. We looked at their alternative plan, and it's not viable. And you, by this you propose, Mrs. Castro, especially the Socialist Group, are not next to the Town Councils. They talk to them, they're behind reality. Today, the Galician Waste and Contaminated Soil Act will be approved, a law that advances state legislation, which constitutes a bet determined by the transformation of Galician society into a committed model of production and consumption that responds to the environmental, social and economic challenges of the present, but also of the future. For my part, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We continue with the legislative texts. Ditame debate and vote, issued by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, on the draft law of museums and other museums in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u23	Amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia are maintained. The president of Commission 4th, Education and Culture, Ms Teresa Egerique, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u24	Good morning. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on 1 October 2020. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting of 5 October 2020, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, No. 26, of 6 October 2020, and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 24 October and 10 November 2020 for amendments to the whole and the articulated respectively. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 4th Commission on Education and Culture. The amendments to the whole and the amendments to the joint tabled, which were qualified respectively by the Bureau of the Commission at the meetings of 30 October and 17 November 2020, were: 2 amendments to the total return, one of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and one of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, and 90 to the joint, which were 31 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and 59 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. At the plenary meeting on 9 December 2020, the above amendments were rejected. Commission 4th, Education and Culture, at its meeting on 18 December 2020, appointed the following speakers: from the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr José Luis Ferro Iglesias, holder, and Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato, alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms Mercedes Queixas Zas, holder, and Mr Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, alternate; from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Ms Noa Susana Díaz Varela, holder, and Mr Manuel Luis Álvarez Martínez, alternate. The Constitutive Session of the Presidency took place on December 22, 2020, with my presence and with the assistance of the rapporteur and the incumbent rapporteurs Mr. Ferro Iglesias, Mrs. Queixas Zas and Mrs. Díaz Varela. In this session, they have set the initial working calendar. Subsequently, the Presidency held meetings on December 29, 2020 and January 7, 2021, with the assistance of the rapporteur and the incumbent rapporteurs Mr Ferro Iglesias, Mrs Queixas Zas and Mrs Díaz Varela, in which they analysed the articulated text of this bill and the amendments formulated and prepared the report with the proposals for acceptance of amendments or rejection and recommendations for transactions; report that it was discussed and approved with all the recommendations made by the Pontic at the session that kept the Commission 4th on January 29. So far the legislative journey of this Bill of Museums and other Museums of Galicia in Commission 4th, Education and Culture, which I chair. It is up to the plenary today to debate and, if so, to adopt it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We turn around the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship, and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u26	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We were already commenting on the debate we had in this House in which we defended our amendment to the whole that the bill that was being presented on its day was absolutely insufficient, since in our view its content did not regulate with the extent and accuracy necessary fundamental aspects of museum centers and museum activities. We thought, frankly, that in the paper work the text would improve with the incorporation of the amendments proposed by our group, but it wasn't. After that presentation, of the 58 amendments tabled by us, by this group, the People's Group accepted a decade. Of course, all -- except for an exception that we will comment afterwards -- of so little silence -- that if you refer to errors, to grammatical errors, to drafting corrections, or to points that are basically insubstantial issues -- that we expect and we intend -- and we know that it will be so -- is not one of the arguments used by the government party -- that we know it will be -- to seek our support for this legislative text. That's what I'm saying, because it's happened to the Commission as well. That's right. I also want to keep a record of the good heel and the good tune that there was at work in presentation with the three voices, with the people that we were on that commission, as well as with the lawyer. The climate really was of absolute understanding. I understand it, but, of course, it was not enough, as well, I transferred it to the spokesperson of the People's Group. Our feeling is that if there was really a willingness to work together in a normative text to regulate the activity of our museum centers -- by the way, something very necessary -- we should have had a real debate, discussion of viewpoints, confrontation of ideas. But, of course, this possibility was discarded because the negotiation has already come in, we saw that it was not possible. Lines were previously marked. In fact, we arrived at meetings knowing we found ourselves with an east jetta wing and unwilling to accept any silent proposal, as it has been shown. Well, by going into the matter that we have to present here today, to explain our amendments a little bit, I'm going to do a little bit of the opposite exercise, in the hope that we will find a better understanding of what was in the Commission today. I will do what I will do to explain what my parliamentary group has proposed to improve this legislative text, but it has not been accepted in committee. As I say, what was accepted was amended -- yes, of course, presented by us -- but, of course, it wasn't the ones that modified or improved -- by our understanding -- that legislative text. They refused to include in the law the defence and promotion of museum heritage as a guarantee of citizenship's right to equal access to culture and education. They also admitted not to modify the museum description, which for us is not only an institution dedicated to cultural promotion and development, but their existence is defined by the dissemination of cultural memory -- of "memorial"; that expression, "cultural memory"-- of the promotion of identity and cultural development, yes, but also social. This is an essential question for us as to how much it refers to so-called memory institutions, BAM -- libraries, archives and museums --. And they didn't admit -- and this is what you've strongly called our attention -- to clarify what the mission of the museum centers is, even though the law itself refers to that mission. But, of course, we don't understand that if you refer to the fulfilment of a mission when it doesn't appear in the whole text, what that mission is; we don't understand it, and we already consider that this is a rather important mistake, but you'll see. It is no longer acceptable for them to accept, moreover, that the primary mission is the dissemination of cultural memory, that -- as I say -- to the proposed by this parliamentary group, which was that mission, the dissemination of cultural memory, you don't formulate anything at all. They don't make that mistake. They don't even define precisely the different types of centers either. The article on interpretation centers is, in our view, absolutely confusing, when this was -- according to it -- one of the basic objectives why the Galician Council justified this legislative text. Nor did they agree to include among the functions of the museums the creation and maintenance of a professional inventory that would enable them to exercise effective periodic control of the collections. Nor did they agree to include among the functions the development of a risk analysis, the restoration of objects in order to ensure the integrity of collections, the development of educational and pedagogical programs. By the way, with regard to the question of the functions, all the experts we have consulted over this time do not understand how it can be the function of a museum collection -- which we remember can be private -- to contribute to the training of professionals with titles related to the field of museum collections. They don't understand, neither do we. Nor did they admit to solving important issues such as who is responsible for the expenses caused by the conservation and maintenance of a forced deposit or what happens in the event of the dissolution or closure of a museum center with its funds. We know nothing about the acquisition of funds and collections by these centres either; nothing is known. Emptyer. The text does not collect any measure or obligation on the part of the Galician Council of impulse, encouragement or economic support for centres other than their ownership or management; but it is not for the members of the Galician System of museum centres either. The reality is that it doesn't even cover the obligations of the Autonomic Administration with these centres. You can see this if this text is or is not an absolutely empty text of content. We continue. It's that neither concrete nor regulating primary aspects such as document management or the presence or use of information and communication technologies, that -- let's remember -- that's what filled headlines at that meeting that took place a year ago, selling this bill and so on. This law was born to, on the one hand, regulate interpretation centers -- something that, as we say, is absolutely confusing in this text -- but in addition to, in some ways, regulate the use of these new technologies. You'll tell me where this use of new technologies is in this text; we haven't found it. And much less this law pushes the promotion of museums to make them real elements of cultural diffusion and social cohesion, which is what they should serve. Also among the gaps in the text is especially serious -- we have already said -- the lack of references to the planning of the staff of museums and centers and the fixing of the functions of each work in the different functional areas that are contemplated. There's more. The text is drawn up with such a lack of attention that it is not coordinated with the Law 5/2016, of cultural heritage, in several respects. For example, the archaeological finding deposit scheme is not collected when this law that I just mentioned speaks of casual findings; and it also says that these casual findings can be delivered in a museum. If that happens, we don't know what the mechanics are going to be, what the process of receiving these funds is going to be. It is also surprising that references to the museums of the Heritage Act, as if museums were not part of the cultural heritage, given that they are transmitters and depositaries of that collective memory, as we have already said. Nor is it acceptable for the desire to introduce and control the Galician Union in the autonomy of the other public administrations appearing in this legislative text. The same will to dominate the System is also appreciated in article 10 of the law, which regulates the composition of the Council of Museum Centers of Galicia, in which all members are appointed by the holder of the Council and his election to us is somewhat arbitrary -- and I say "a bit" for smoothing, but it is absolutely arbitrary--. And here, to our understanding, the main reason for wanting to get this text out with so little debate, so little reflection and in a hurry, because the reality is that this law does not regulate anything new that no longer regulates the Cultural Heritage Act; it should have developed itself regularly. But what does it do? Well, to ensure this body of control of museum centers, like the Council of Museum Centers, which, by the way, we don't say it's not necessary. Of course it's necessary! But, of course, what is not to be received is that the law itself does not define some of the members of those eight vowels that are part of it. We know, yes, that the whole direction of this future council is formed by the Council of Culture -- nothing to object to there, that we do know -- but what we don't know is that entities are going to be part of these eight vowels. It would be important for us to define each other. And, of course, as we did in our amendments, for our parliamentary group, the Galician Culture Council -- we said it on several occasions -- it would be a more advisory body -- so we thought -- and parallel to that center council. But since it was not to be accepted, we also tabled another amendment, understanding that, if not, we expected it to be included at least in that Council of Museums; but no, it was not done either. And don't tell us that they will, that they will have the Council's representations, because, if it is, then why doesn't it appear reflected in this law? The question of the Galician Council of Culture, of none of this unquestionable statutory body, is very worrying to us and it has not been corrected, as if it were to accept the amendments that we tabled in the presentation. I'm glad you're here that for us this question is, of course, an insurmountable obstacle, entirely insurmountable. As we say, it is not considered in the text that the Galaga Culture Council is part of the museum centres; by the way, it is not expected that the municipalities -- represented in this case by the Fegamp -- are part of this council, since many museums in our country are of municipal ownership. Nor does the Galega Culture Council find itself in the relationship between bodies and entities which, according to the Culture Council, initially constituted the group for the drafting of this text one year ago. Of course, we also find it intolerable that the Galician Council -- as well as, in addition, confirmed its own president, Rosario Álvarez, in the budget appearance -- did not ask the Galician Council for a report on this bill, maybe when it has a section, a working group, specialized in heritage and cultural goods and, of course, a lot of experience in the museum study. Something that also surprises us is the little institutional respect that the Galician Union has for certain entities; and one of them, for example, is the Museum of the Galician People. We don't understand it, we don't think it's acceptable, the elimination -- or the despondency, let's say it's obvious; neither the consequent elimination nor the episteal -- of the explicit reference to the continuity of the Law of Recognition of the Museum of the Galician People as a synthesizing center of all public and private museums and collections that are part of the Greek System. Unfortunately it was the Museum of the Galician People who noticed this mistake! And after the museum's express request, it is true that it was accepted to include this amendment of the Socialist Group, which was finally negotiated. As I said, this was the only silence that was accepted. But, of course, it was obvious, and it was unforgivable not to do so. We don't have time for much more, but in all this exposed, we must add, in addition, the lack of willingness to listen to the museums and the professionals. There may have been a first date, but, of course, there was no more. And we know that because all this time we've been in touch with the museum people and, of course, there's been no contact with them. You said in a press release that it was about getting "a participatory and transparent process." Of course, and we asked ourselves, "Where is this transparency if there is no document, no report, nothing that's noticed from that single meeting that I didn't know if there was a year or more than a year -- I don't know what year I live in -- In other words, given the content of this text, it would serve perfectly what was reflected in the Cultural Heritage Act of May 4, which, in its title VIII, regulated the museums; it was devoted entirely to the museums in articles 111 to 118. And the so-called visitor collections were regulated, while laying the foundations of what is conceived as the Network and the Galego System of Museums to integrate all those museums and collections that are found in our territory. Of course, we, for all these reasons, considered this legislative text insufficient, which was not born with the will to legislate the centers, which should be guaranteed by our collective, cultural and social memory, but that it was -- as I have already said -- a more propaganda act to put crosses in that Excel of executed tasks, but which, of course, do not intend to clarify, manage, organize, and much less protect our museum heritage. And for now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Compasses Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. We understand that the headline already printed for today's press release by the Council of Culture, Education and University, by the Government, is the adoption of the "First Law of Museums and Museums of Galicia". Obviously, I will not be the BNG Parliamentary Group who questions this, because empirical science supports such assertion. Explain. "First," as a numeral, in its initial semantic sense, defines what, in a series, goes before any other. Actually, right, there wasn't a law of these characteristics in our country before. On the contrary, the second notion of "first" as the one that is of greatest importance is still to be seen. Time will tell, but we've moved forward that in the Galician Nationalist Block we manifest our doubts, as we have already stated in the process of processing. In life you sometimes win and others learn, says wisdom, always disguised as anonymity, in our country; that, yes, the first protagonist so responsible for the immense heritage that belongs to us, which sustains our cultural identity; and, by the way, also the most valuable content of our museums. We've already said it on previous occasions. After repeatedly contrasting -- even until the last few days -- this bill with experts from the field that it occupies us, which is the science of the museumology, we conclude that we are faced with a text in which, unfortunately, we neither won nor learned, since you from the People's Party renounced presenting it as a real pioneering law, but really pioneer, in its full meaning, as, of course, we waited after the repeated announcements over several years that were made. They've really created expectations that aren't now met. They have given up, in addition -- and above all, we want to put a stop to this -- to bring it closer to the most innovative currents in the science of the museumology, beginning with the social museology, which no one ever questions and which everyone else includes, aimed at enhancing the social function of museums as tools for the development and transformation of the community; a very important mistake, in our view, as a starting point, that makes birth in its origin, before its birth even, a small law, a restricted law, expired; limited therefore, from its own. We wonder, then, at the BNG Parliamentary Group, where is its ambition for ad futurum, where is the anticipation capacity. They agree, therefore -- we concluded -- by regulating an empty shell and by giving up that always necessary and ambitious body, the content of what to learn and what to gain, as popular knowledge said. The analysis of this project confirmed, in our view, an insufficient articulate and, in addition, far from the potentialities and opportunities of our immense museum heritage. That's why we initially tabled an amendment to the whole, but that is yes, as it is always marked in the BNG, with a pro-positive character; a pro-positive spirit that was collected, compiled, in that complementary set of 31 amendments, which responded to a vertebrate and nuclear objective: to contribute to the improvement and improvement of a document that, in fact, had to be called a pioneer and adjusted above all to the most renewable currents of science and museology; a science that we cannot forget that has been subject in recent years -- as it is obvious, by its fundamentally socializing character -- to continuous changes, not only with regard to content, but also to the continent itself and, above all, to the management of what is a museum. The will of the BNG, therefore, was to contribute to offering society -- if, surely -- a first law that opened a new path, which fixed the foundations of a living, interactive, inclusive and cohesion museum network in our country, with its own personality, as it cannot be otherwise, but framed in a museum cultural force that corresponds to our immense cultural heritage legacy -- be popular, be cult -- and, above all, generate a cultural gift that we confirm every day that is in continuous and ongoing renewal and experimental creation. And we did this because we don't understand the museology, from our perspective, if you can't be a leader between what we went and what we are today as a community. We are not a black hole in the cultural universe, but we are a star within an inherited constellation from which we want to care for. That's our responsibility. From the beginning, in the amendment to the whole, we have shown two structural evidences of silence; we have said one form and the other background. Neither of them -- we have to recognize -- has been overcome in this processing process. Let's get it together. As for the form, we have highlighted it for reasons of procedure, elaboration and processing, avoiding -- no urgency, in our view, unjustifiable -- the necessary rigour of consultation and contrast for a legal framework of these characteristics with fundamental consultative bodies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the voice of fundamental consultative bodies such as the Galician Council of Culture -- has already been explained here by the companion of the Socialist Group -- the University, the Royal Academy of Fine Arts, etc., among many other institutions, which proves an important democratic deficit that even leads them to self-amend their own Cultural Heritage Act of 2016. Also, in this sense, we explained the small and affordable public exposure time that would facilitate and allow the presentation of arrivals: three weeks in the middle of summer, between July and August 2019. It's a curious practical application of the definition of public transparency, in our view. And as for the bottom, in addition to being a chaotic framework, especially in some parts of its formulation, as the Economic and Social Council Report has gathered, we have shown something for us that is at the base and root: the absence of the new thought currents of the museumology; all that reformulation that already emanates from the ICOM, from that meeting of the year 2019 in Paris. A caseless absence -- and here we want to pretend -- that condemns this text before it was born to the prehistoric museum when it really should be sitting the keys to the future. In the restorative sense of the norm, our amendments were addressed, linked -- to mention very briefly some questions -- to repair the exclusion of immaterial, industrial cultural heritage and also historical memory -- which, by the way, are already defined in the Heritage Act of 2016 -- to repair the absence of detail in competences regarding museums or general criteria of public policies; to renounce the regularization of museums or museum collections that we have in our country of great importance, but which are ownership, for example, of the church or the army; and to avoid the exclusion again of the historical tradition of Galicianism in museum matter, which has already inaugurated -- and if so, in a pioneer way -- the Galegos Study Seminar will do in the year 2023 a century. They are amendments that sought to repair also inconsistencies in referring, in the explanatory statement, to UNESCO's recommendations, which then, within the legal framework, are not concrete, or to resolve contradictions with the Cultural Heritage Act itself, or redundancy as to regulate the Greek System of Museum Centers, when it is already in article 114 of this law, which since the People's Party have not been able to develop since 2016. Finally, we want to repair the poor definition of types and museum centers, although it is already, as a clear precedent, categorized by the ICOM. We want to draw attention to the absence and mention of virtual or online museums hosting purely digital works, which is already called "getting art"; detailing the specific areas of work within a museum; mentioning the importance of an area of education that cannot be diluted in what is called dynamization without more; and we also want to contribute to defining tasks and requirements essential to access jobs in museums -- of course, a speciality for which our young people and girls still cannot be trained in our country and have to go out-- Well, none of this was incorporated; it was a missed opportunity -- we understand it like this -- to rewrite, with future faces, our own museum history account with that look tomorrow. They opt from the People's Party once again by the facade of cultural immobilism of appearance, "which seems to be done", but for nothing. Of the total of the 31 amendments registered by our group -- as we have warned in the Commission -- only one was accepted, as it could not be otherwise in our spirit of addition. And it is the one that appeals to something that is fundamental to us, such as the need to develop effective coordination mechanisms between the Network of Museum Centers, whether they are autonomous or not. To plan this vicious living museum network that we have in a coordinated way was, if we say so, a main objective, but it was also to repair an absence as unexplainable as incomprehensible, because we still continue to wonder how the authors of this legal text could forget the museum par excellence of our country, the expression of the Greek identity root, the Museum of the Galician People. How could they exclude him? Because we're still not able to understand it. How can a law be drafted for a country by excluding its root and dismissing or ignoring the spinal column? There, as I say, was all the transactional capacity, all the amending will, authorized by the People's Party. "End of the appointment," we can say, end of the chapter, end of the series. You will understand that with this balance we cannot feel reflected, mirrored, in the final document, in that paper that is intended to be approved today, which continues to have exclusively the skating of the People's Party. "A goal without a plan is just a wish," we read in The Beginning. Without a real plan of inclusion in the debate process, the goal here today is clearly expressed as an exclusive wish, and so we live in the BNG. And there's a well-known saying from all of us that the hot paper they're putting on. We now have a new chance to check it out with this law. We could think that it was a legal framework, as often happens, open, abstract, theoretically, of minimums. But we also thought and aspired that during these months the Government would give parallel signs of a much more concrete and ambitious project. The reality has not been so and we can definitely today qualify this law as hasty and extemporaneous as anecdotal and purely process for the People's Party. On the one hand, we saw it in the adoption of budgets for the year 2021, so expansive indeed, but at all, they had a correlation that justified that interest for a future museum development. We can say that the Government has approved with this budget an amendment to the whole of this law. On the other hand -- we will now reread it -- the null presence of the Galician museum network in the Commission on Social, Economic and Cultural Reactivation, as an important resource for reactivation from the interior to the outside. Because we already know that culture is a right, we know that it is an essential good, although the People's Party here did not want to approve it, but also what we are absolutely convinced of in the BNG is that cultural industry is a fundamental engine of economic reactivation, and museums are part of that vital chain that represents culture. They notice, if not, the museums in Ireland, the nearest Provence or Catalonia, which are real references to progress. Open your eyes, open your eyes, expand well-experienced models. Let's be once and for all ambitious. That's why we're surprised that concepts that are fundamental today like "ecomuseo" are omitted here, that economy that can provide the museum as an attractive and dynamic center of an area. We're done now because time prevents us from continuing to argue. Today they will adopt by themselves a law that is born revealed, which is already in the prehistory of the history of the museumology, because it responds to the old policies of museums of mere spectators rather than actors; a law that we have already said is chaotic in some aspects of its formulation, in other inconcrete, redundant or even confusing for the moment of application by the Greek Museum System and that it turned its back on a direct and real application to social participation, by reducing it to a majority representation of the Government of Galicia in the Council of Museums of Galicia. They will therefore approve -- and final -- an articulate that maintains the traditional definition of denominations, functions, professionalization of staff and conservation and archive criteria for safeguarding collective memory. This will be the first Law of museums and museums in Galicia; here is the title, principle and end in itself. But returning to that reading of the literary alphabet I mentioned before, which is The Principle, there it says, "The essential is invisible to the eyes." The essential of the project of life, but especially of the project of the future of the Greek museums, is invisible in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Ferro Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, first of all, I wanted to warn you of a small mistake in what we have already talked about in the Commission where we approved the dictation. It's about Article 4.2.f) There was an addendum at the end of "scientific diffusion". I'd have to add "and cultural." It was something that we had already made clear to the three groups because in article 3, a amendment of the Socialist Party's addition had been accepted in this sense, and also for Article 4 and Article 5 to have the same coherence. And in Article 5.3(e) it would be exactly the same; it would just have to add "and cultural". Of course, I would like to thank you for the good atmosphere of dialogue that we had when we prepared, at the various meetings, the report by the Pérency, Mrs Complaints and Mrs Díaz. I think we've improved the text among all of us. And I want to be logically positive with the positive of this law and the positive of us to deal with and accept different amendments. Now, I remember, as you were speaking, some, like that of article 18, an important transaction made by the Galego Nationalist Block, of addition, about the Network of Museum Centers, which Mrs. Complaints mentioned, and to which you so much invoke the Museum of the Galician People, which has already been warned by themselves and logically had to be there and is finally there; an addition of both the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. And, of course, logically, I have to disagree with you. I disagree with the perception that you show about this law. This law regulates important and silent issues that did not collect the Cultural Heritage Act, and, if we stick to the background, as you already know and explain in the various committees, the Autonomous Community, both Galician and all, has exclusive competence in the area of historical, artistic, archaeological and architectural heritage of interest in Galicia, without prejudice to what logically it has in its possession, Article 149 of the Spanish Constitution and also in the field of museums of interest to Galicia other than State ownership. But the truth is that until 1995 the only regulations that existed in Galicia in the area of museums were Decree 314/1986, regulating the public system of museums in our community. It was precisely in that year, in 1995, when the Law of 30 October was published, of Galician cultural heritage, whose title V, as you know, introduces the first regulation of the legal level of the museum area. This regulation establishes the essential brakes of the Welsh Museum System, introducing a regulation of the definition, functions and legal regime of museums and so-called visiting collections. Logically, the evolution of the museum sector has shown that these legal forecasts were insufficient to deal with a reality like that of museums, which is very changing, so that this law was repealed, as you also know, by Law 5/2016, of May 4, of Galicia's cultural heritage. This legal text dedicates its title VIII to the museums and marks the pattern from which all the questions that arise in the context of the management of this type of institutions, aimed at meeting the demands of a society that requires the museums to care for new needs. This will be -- as you have remembered -- the first law of museums and other museum centres; a novel norm in the autonomic and pioneering field of respect for plurality, access to culture, integration of the gender perspective and the use of ICTs, which seeks to grant all the protagonists that museums deserve, taking into account their quadruple dimension: social, research, pedagogical and economic. The new law promoted by the Council of Culture complements the legal articulation of the reference cultural institutions of our country, after the implementation of Law 5/2012, of libraries of Galicia, and Law 7/2014, of archives and documents of Galicia. It also involves an indispensable development of the legal standard that governs our cultural heritage, Law 5/2016, which included basic museum regulation pending the definition of a new specific framework. Galicia needed a rule that would regulate the sector flexibly and look to the future, that the legal security system, that would enhance the activity developed in the media and that it would take into account the plural dimension of our role within a modern and democratic society. The future law will be the first specific regulation that will regulate this matter in our community, addressing globally the challenges facing these institutions in this twenty-first century as first-level cultural services and the scope of society as a whole, both Greek and foreign. The law defines each of the typologies that integrate the broadest and most generic concept of museum center: museums, museum collections and centres of interpretation of Galicia's cultural heritage. It defines the conditions necessary for its creation, as well as organizational and management aspects. In addition, it regulates a whole series of dynamisation measures in this area and finally describes and sets the applicable sanctions regime. The law has as its object the regulation of the legal regime of these institutions of interest to Galicia, as well as the establishment of the Greek System of Museum Centres, presided over by the principles of coordination, collaboration and complementarity, whose end is the improvement of the organization and operation of the centres that integrate it. The new standard, promoted by the Council of Culture, will first legislate the role of museums and will provide a legal framework in which not only the different museum realities of Galicia, but also its typological and thematic plurality, ethnographic, archaeological, museum houses, ecomuseos, etc., showing these institutions as reference assets in the cultural, research, educational and economic levels. The Greek System of Museum Centers will be the organizational and functional structure of integration of the museum centers and networks of the autonomous community, conceived in the fullest respect of its autonomy for efficient coordination of the cultural and scientific management of the various centers. It will consist of an administrative body of leadership and coordination, the Council of Museum Centres of Galicia, and the various museums, museum collections and properly authorized cultural heritage interpretation centres. Being part of this system will involve a number of benefits such as participation in specific aid lines that can prioritize access to certain collaborative and also formative actions, as well as receiving deposits or participating in cultural and tourist promotion actions, among others. Even so, it is easy to create networks of museum centers to improve the cooperation and cross-sectional use of the means available to them, in order to increase their effectiveness in the performance of their functions. Networks shall constitute operational subsystems for their operation and for the organization of the Galician System of Museum Centres. Networks will be established according to the territorial scope -- title, thematic content and museological discourse -- and participation in them will be voluntary. Special relevance in this law is the new tools and organs created for improvement in the management of these institutions in our community. And, as I said before, first of all, the Council of Museum Centers of Galicia was created, a college body of consultative nature. And secondly, it foresees the creation of the General Register of Museum Centers of Galicia, which will be the administrative instrument in which museums, museum collections and authorized cultural heritage interpretation centres are inscribed. It replaces and perfects the current Census of Museums of Galicia, which has a total of 94 centres in our community and which will integrate at least the data related to ownership, home, denomination, typology and thematic area, description of the immovable property that make up it, human resources, functional areas, services it provides, schedules and public visit plans. As has already been said, this law addresses and regulates other museum realities beyond museums, such as museum collections, which have already been foreseen in the earlier regulation of the historical heritage of our community since 1995 under that denomination at that time of "visitable collections", and also pretends for the first time in the centres of interpretation of cultural heritage; the latter are first defined and regulated, as said in our legal order, which is supposed to cover an empty norm that existed in respect of this type of centres. Another aspect that is particularly important in this text is the promotion of scientific and research activity. In this sense, research is reflected as a function, but also as a duty of the different centers. The law wants to boost research that is done from within, especially in the centers of ownership or self-management. From this point of view, it is intended to promote research and collaboration, not only in the area of museums integrated into the Welsh museum networks, but beyond that in the sphere of state and even in the international field. In this sense, catalogues are expected to contain a digital version of open access for social, educational and interpretation purposes. The features of the Document Management System are regulated, and the application of new technologies will be sought in order to facilitate the generalization of integrated information, documentation and management systems in centres that are part of this Galician Museum Center System. Therefore, ladies, I think it was a necessary law. And I want to thank the advisor and his entire team for their work in writing; he's going to be an important and pioneer Museum Law for our community in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Ferro Iglesias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now turn to the parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. First of all, you have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u32	Thank you, President. Hello again. We -- we said earlier -- although we agree with this law, with the need of a law specifically dedicated to these museum centers, of course, we consider that this legislative text, as it is, is insufficient, precisely by what we said, because its content does not regulate with the necessary accuracy as fundamental aspects as it can be its objectives, its functions or even, as it said before, its mission. Clearly, museums are institutions dedicated to the safeguarding of our memory. They're not mere cultural containers; no, they're not mere cultural containers, they're much more, and that, to our understanding, is not reflected in this law. On the contrary, what we appreciate is not only to be disinterested in regulating this essential cultural area, but also that it seems that there is little desire to understand its evolution all this time and it also seems that there is little desire to understand the way in which today's society has to consume this type of culture, to confront it in these new times. And we say this because if the People's Group -- or the Government, in this case -- did the exercise of consulting -- no, at that first working meeting, I think it was in 2019, with that wonderful picture of all the experts who worked in that field -- if you had done more meetings with all these people, you'd realize what we're saying here. And it's just that, despite the need for legislation like this, it's insufficient, of course, because it doesn't respond to problems or current situations. From entry -- they will-- part of an expired, old conception of museum activity. They accepted one of our amendments in committee, indeed, but, as we said, it was only to have arguments of political will and consensus; but they do not convince us. The reality is that a matter of such relevance as the regulation of our museum heritage cannot be left to a mere numerical question. They didn't -- and we see that they don't have -- to assume amendments, neither our own, nor those of the other parliamentary group, those of the Galician Nationalist Block -- which, of course, we've accepted, we've already said it in the Commission--; with theirs and with our own we believe that the text, without being the best, would at least improve remarkably. We reaffirm that the Council of Galicia with this approval, with the proposal of this law, wants only to add one more legal initiative, given its limited work in this direction over all these years. And that is the only purpose of presenting this law; it was presented in haste, without debate, without reflection...; that is, pure propaganda. Pure propaganda and misleading information on these multiple press releases as well. We'll see today, because throughout all this time, of course, the Galician Union spoke very little of this law, and when it did so it was to announce that it was moved to adapt the activity of these centres to new technologies. Please, I repeat again here that you tell me where these new technologies appear in this text, except on numerous occasions. It's not a text that, of course, regulates this use of new technologies. And making digital catalogues, I don't think it was the purpose of what we're talking about. It's also curious that much of the content collected in the new text, from our point of view, should be subject to regulatory development and not appear here reflected, and on the contrary, aspects which should be realized, such as, for example, representation of entities in the Council of Museum Centers are left to us do not know whether for a regulatory development or for a press release that announces its constitution. We don't know either. We repeat -- let us finish -- that, from our point of view, the text lacks content and a clear will to regulate the museum centers normatively, and, despite what is stated in the explanatory statement, this bill does not at all provide greater protection to our cultural heritage than it is already developed in Law 5/2016, which, as we said, foresees a regulatory development that is essentially what contains, although very confusingly, this text that we are discussing today. So, by the way, and because the PSdeG Group, of course, thinks that our culture deserves much more respect and attention, we're not going to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Compasses Zas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u34	Good day again. "Tell me what museums you have, and I'll tell you who you are." I share with you this statement that I was well-recorded by one of the many conversations I had with many experts and experts in the field of museumology in our country. I think there's one of the keys. I appealed to the first intervention that this law was necessary -- which, indeed, I agree with you in that, Mr. Ferro -- was very necessary, but I insist that your result does not respond to that need, and it is not a useful law, unfortunately. It's a missed opportunity, as we said. [[Applause]] "Tell me what museums you have, and I'll tell you who you are," was what I really think gave me many keys to this intervention, and for the work around this law, because many agreements came to mind that explain the present and justify that prehistory in which this law I tried to justify at first. We have museums, a museum network, which is already, in fact, in prehistory, and in this law there is no light of what progresses; museums that are subject to absolutely limiting circumstances because of hyper-reduced spaces, totally insufficient, because of the lack of specialized personnel to develop their own museum work, by the very insecurity of their contents often and by an economic masonry. That's why I just wanted to make, very briefly, three accords that explain the circumstances of our Galician museum network, because we don't perceive -- I insist -- these rays of light in this law. On the one hand, budgetary evolution. Between 2009 and 2017 the budgeted amounts came down brutally in what is dedicated to museums, as well as for archives and libraries. From 2018 until this same year only the increase has been producing in a very little representative way, nothing singular, and that does not at all compensate for everything we lost since 2009. We have an accumulated differential of less than 18.5 million euros, which we lost on the way and therefore lost the maintenance and the necessary reactivation of the museums. Secondly, a hyper brief reflection on human resources. We now have an inheritance characterized by the progressive depreciation of squares from over ten years ago, by the non-reposition of these squares which have been vacant for obvious and natural reasons of retirement, and, at most, in some cases, small chains of contracts for pocket people; that is, we have the impossibility of being able to manage a serious, solvent and rigorous museum plan in our museums; an absolutely precarious and sustained operation, often in the goodwill of people. We have these fundamental museums without human personnel enough to be able to meet all that is internal management, the organization of collections, exhibitions, the conservation of goods, research work, digitization -- where we're still in the light years -- and also collaboration with researchers and researchers, who often reach the centers and, for this reason of job precariousness, they don't even have the way to access those pieces that they need to develop their research work. I recommend, because I cannot explain it here, the reading and analysis of the report The cultural employment in Galicia, of the year 2019, of the Galician Council of Culture, as well as a report that recognizes that there are many people in our museum centers performing functions that are not hired in their category. Also, in this sense, I have to mention that since 2008 there has been no further call for opposition. In 2019 it was announced, an announcement was made, as is very common in the People's Party. Another announcement was made in 2020. But explicit summons of this public job offer haven't seen it yet, and there's a lot of people who're very attentive, who's very anxious to get them out. But they're also very attentive to it going out, firstly, to publish the theme, because it's impossible to prepare what is the opposition to the work of your life, for what you've trained for many years, even outside our country, and not even to have those opportunities guaranteed to access that test. And, of course, I have to mention also the training scholarships, before the year-olds, now only biannuals and, as many recognize, with an amount even below the minimum wage. These are the circumstances of the alleged quality that our museums and the staff are subjected to. And finally, a little reflection on the state of the Greek museums. What credibility do we really have from this norm, from this government, wanting to justify a law that, in fact, had to be a pioneer, a novice and a guarantee of access to culture for the whole of society, based on the four basic pillars that Mr. Ferro mentioned -- social, researcher, pedagogical and economic -- when our museum centres are repeatedly completely abandoned? How does the abandonment of the Marco Museum of Vigo explain? Or the silence in the face of the closure of the Museum of Contemporary Art of Coruña, which was a real orphanship for the city? Why are they accomplices of the private bank, with ostracism to which is being subjected all the cultural and artistic heritage we have of the extinct savings boxes? How is it justified that after three years of initiating the BIC procedure for the Carlos Maside Museum, you don't know where? [[Applause]] How can you close your eyes to this current -- at this moment and in these days -- possible disposal of assets that are being produced in the Cornide House? Or how are they complicit in the sneer they keep submitting to the legacy of Sargadelos?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u36	Actually -- and I'm done now, Mr. President -- none of these questions have any answer to this law, and we don't find them in their laudatory speeches, so our vote has to be negative. And you know why? Because this law, from the perspective of the BNG Parliamentary Group, is a suit of straw, without body to shelter and without soul to care for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Iron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. I know that the people of the People's Party live in parallel reality, but, well, we will continue to work positively, as always, and try to improve things. Look, the amendments are not rejected as a whim. It's the first law I deal with, and what they handed me was not that, but it was dialogue, listening and consensus. Many of its amendments were drafted against what the Juridical Services propose; they are matters of regulatory technique in the drafting of laws. I remember one of the articles I proposed also had such a problem, and some of you, too. Others were disillusioned because they were already collected in other precepts. I believe that, despite all the evils that, according to the opposition, has this law, it has been a transparent law, a law with a transparent processing -- which is important -- and it has all the technical and judicial reports favorable. According to these reports, there was no defect in form; it's a technical law, it's not an ideological law. These characteristics of transparency, of non-deform in form, I consider them important, and do not comply with all the laws in all places that are approved. [[Murmurs.]] There are places where laws are passed that don't meet these requirements, but I don't want to go into that either, because I want consensus, I don't want cristification. Mrs. Díaz, the technologies do appear, they appear! First I said no, then I said yes, but not. They appear, they are there, simply the Council does not force the centers to use a single tool; it leaves freedom to use different tools. The participation of the sector was also carried out through a working group, and this allowed participation in the drafting phase of the text of recognized prestigious professionals, which served to take the momentum of the situation and the interests of the sector in our community, thus achieving a better orientation of content, talking to experts in this field. By the way, at these working meetings, the Council of Culture has also been, from the very first moment. As for the composition of the Council of Museum Centers, I want to tell you that we understand it this way; we understand that it should not be rigid, that it should not be immutable, because vowels too, inevitably, can change, because the centers are not static, and we are not going to change the law every time we have to change some member of the Council, logically. You know -- and I've already told you -- that once the law has been passed by regulation, this council will be created, which I assure you that, as far as possible, it will be plural as well, and will try to ensure the balance of gender, but whenever possible, it cannot be made impossible. This has already been done in the Library Council and in the Archive Council. Our writing doesn't think it excludes anyone who's linked to the area of museums and museums. He's not exclusive, he doesn't exclude anyone. You don't name anyone, you'll be a posteriori. The possibility of integrating the members you propose or others is open. It is true, Mrs. Complaints, that the ICOM proposed a new definition of museum, it is true. But this one didn't get approved. And since it didn't get passed, this law didn't pick up that definition. It's as simple as that. Of course this isn't about numbers, it's not a question of numbers. But also -- I told you at the commission, Mrs. Díaz -- we accepted almost 20% of the total amendments. I don't think it's too much. With his proposals we improve the law. That's why I'm still invoking that it's a good law and that I personally would like it to be passed without a vote against. I'll be a little naive, but I believe that in these cultural issues, there are a lot more aspects that unite us than those that separate us. We all agree that museums are essential to preserve human knowledge at all levels. Without them it would be impossible to understand how we reach the current technological, artistic and cultural level today. When a people are busy and concerned about having, keeping and improving these spaces, we talk about a people who cares about knowledge, what they care about the culture of the Greeks; and, above all, what they want to know about their past, their present and how all that cultural baggage will affect their future. In conclusion, with this law we provide museums with greater flexibility, greater coordination, greater rigour, greater legal certainty, better management and research promotion. It's a law, therefore, open, dialogue, with a lot of participation, which is well mounted; and which, by the way -- and above all -- has not criticized anyone in the sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u39	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u40	After the debate on the legislative texts has been closed, we shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the vote on amendments to the dictatorship issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft legislation on waste and contaminated soils of Galicia. We begin by voting on amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the amendments by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft legislation on waste and contaminated soils of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u41	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. Joint vote of the amendments maintained by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditam, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on Galicia's Bill of Waste and Contaminated Lands. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u42	We are now voting on the Commission's statement. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft legislation on waste and contaminated soils of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. Consequently, the Act on waste and contaminated soils of Galicia is approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u43	We are now voting on the amendments to Ditame, issued by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, on the draft law of museums and other museums in Galicia. First of all, we are voting on amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the amendments of the Socialist Group of Galician Socialists to Ditam, issued by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, on the draft law of museums and other museum centres in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u44	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. Joint vote on the amendments maintained by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditam, issued by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, on the draft law of museums and other museums in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u45	Finally, we voted for the Commission's ruling. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, on the Bill of Museums and Other Museums of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, Ditome is approved on the Law of Museums and other Museum Centers of Galicia. Institutional statement on the occasion of World Cancer Day
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u46	Now I'd like to read them an institutional statement that brings the groups to me on the occasion of World Cancer Day, which says: "Cancer is set up as the world's main socio-health problem. It is the second cause of death worldwide and predicts an increase of more than 30% of new cases by 2030. Now in our country one out of two men and one out of three women will be diagnosed with cancer throughout their lives. It is estimated that this disease affects 1.5 million people in Spain and is diagnosed in our country nearly 280,000 new cases each year. The crisis caused by the pandemic of cowardly 19 has only made the situation of social and health fragility worse for people with cancer and their families as a collective double-vulnerable, cancer and cowardly 19th. People with cancer and their families are experiencing various and severe impacts of this crisis: -- Health impact: diagnostic tests and delayed treatments, uncertainty and the need for information that helps reduce the fear of infection. -- Emotional and social impact -- personal and family -- : unwanted loneliness, anxiety over delays in treatment and/or diagnostic tests, fear of infection and return to hospitals, suffering from difficulties to accompany or be accompanied in the process of the end of life, and by worsening economic and labor difficulties. The Galician Parliament, on the occasion of World Cancer Day, expresses its solidarity with all the people affected by this disease and declares the House's commitment to help meet their needs and alleviate the impact of the pandemic on their lives. In this sense, the Galician Parliament advocates that the relevant actions be taken to alleviate their situation of particular vulnerability, as well as to ensure, on an equitable basis, the rights of people with cancer and those of their families. Even so, the Galician Parliament expresses its support for cancer research as an indispensable tool in the fight against this disease, and transfers its recognition to all associations and entities that are accompanying people affected by cancer for their continued commitment and work. Santiago de Compostela, February 9, 2021." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] We continue with the agenda, with point 2, appearances. Comparability of Mr. Vice-President Second and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation, on his own request, to report on the general forecasts and lines of action of his department and actions against Covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u47	Whenever you want, Mr. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. I compare today in this House to report on the general forecasts and lines of action of Vice-Presidentship Second and Council of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation in an unprecedented and very complex context caused by the pandemic of Covid-19, an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis around the world that compels us, as administration, to act on various fronts from anticipation, rigor and efficiency. Above all, we have to anticipate the safety and health of the Greeks and the Greeks. And I'm telling you, every step we take to contain the progress of the pandemic will always be subject to this priority. At the same time, however, this effort at the health level must be compatible with the work of accompanying the productive tissue, with specific measures to support the recovery of sectors most affected by the crisis, to protect employment, to be with families and to build a safety net for people and the most vulnerable groups. To find the right balance between that dichotomy is the great challenge of managing this pandemic if we want to make it possible for anyone to stay behind. And, on the basis of that premise, Galicia is working on two perspectives: firstly, with shock measures, rapid response measures that we are taking from both health and economic to address the most immediate needs; and, secondly, with measures aimed at transforming the Galician business fabric and thus getting strengthened from this crisis, strengthened by responding to the main challenges facing the economy, which are measures ultimately aimed at ensuring a more sustainable economy through digital and ecological transition. Before I evaluate this second block of initiatives, let me stop myself in the quick response measures, those measures that help us curb the impact of the third wave we are going through. As you know, Galicia has been forced to adopt the highest level of restrictions because the Union will do everything in its hand to curb the incidence of the virus beyond the urgency of the Government in Madrid in the management of the pandemic. The damage to families who have lost a loved one is irreversible and irreparable. It has been 1,988 people who have died so far in Galicia since the pandemic began. We all have to keep them very present. What is not irreversible is the evolution of the number of contagions if we take and take the appropriate measures to contain its expansion, because this pandemic cannot continue to cost more lives. So they are difficult decisions to make, and we are aware that they harm the specific sectors of our economy. That's why we can only thank -- again -- the responsibility with which all the Greeks and the Greeks are shouldering, the same responsibility with the companies or, for example, the educational centers are applying the security protocols. The fight against the pandemic continues and continues to demand very hard sacrifices, but this time we have to say that we have already counted on the contribution of the vaccine. In Galicia we will end the dispensation in senior residences and care centres for people with disabilities in the next few days. The second dose is already being administered to health care personnel and we hope to start vaccinating older than 80 years in mid-February. But we still need to specify, ladies and gentlemen, a schedule of vaccination in Spain and that the distribution of doses is established according to the corresponding Danish population at every moment, as the President of the Galician Union transferred to the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, at the last meeting they held. It is a matter of determining this vaccination schedule for Spain if we want to advance with guarantees in the fight against the pandemic and, consequently, if we want to consolidate the reactivation of our economy. Because today we may be talking about economic prospects for this year that has just begun, but we are aware that everything, absolutely everything, is conditioned by the evolution of this third wave and by the level of uncertainty that is generating this crisis. Today we can be talking about that the decline in gross domestic product in Galicia in the fourth quarter is 2.7 points below the average of Spain, that we continue on unemployment levels below twelve years ago, with a 4.4 points lower than the state rate, although the pandemic has broken with six years of continuous growth in social security affiliations, and that January to November exports record better behavior than in Spain as a whole. We can be talking -- I say -- about those indicators that, although negative, show that Galicia is resisting better than the average of the autonomous communities. But the truth is that the scenario is very bad for the Spanish economy as a whole, which in 2020 recorded the biggest fall in gross domestic product in the last eighty-five years. So the reality is that we are facing a crisis of still unknown dimensions, in which any prediction we can make will be subject to this climate of uncertainty surrounding us. We continue to act from prudence and from common sense. I'm the best recipe we have to be able to anticipate at every moment and meet the needs of workers, microenterprises, pemes and self-employed. With all due care, I will not deny you that we would like to look at the year 2021 with certain optimism and with confidence that it can be a year to bolster economic reactivation. We have the two key stimuli to do so: the vaccine and the European reconstruction funds Next Generation -- of which I'll talk to you later --. Both require a management and coordination effort between unprecedented administrations, for which Galicia will always have the tender hand, because so we defend and understand co-governance from the Galician Union and because we believe that central government and local administration should proceed in the management of this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, with this spirit of cooperation and consensus, it is how we are trying to respond to the impact of the pandemic, making social dialogue the natural framework for agreeing on the measures of shock and the reforms necessary for the modernization of the productive tissue, supporting the recommendations of the Committee of Economic Experts -- as well as the conclusions coming out of the Reactivation Commission that has been developed in this House -- but above all, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the sectors most affected by the crisis. We defend collaboration as the basis for every answer, because it was already the formula we used last June when we approved the Galician Reactivation and Dynification Plan. With this strategy, with which we plan to mobilise more than EUR 3,000 million of public and private funds, since the Galician Union, we have sought to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on productive tissue, on employment and on families, and with a clear horizon, which is to boost Galician economic recovery and reactivation. In fact, since the Second Vice-Presidentship there are more than 350 million euros that we use in this plan for two fundamental objectives: 180 million euros for financing and more than 170 million euros for different lines of direct aid related to digitisation, innovation against copper, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility or business transformation. As a balance sheet, we can say that more than 35,000 applications have already been received, from which they have settled about 28,000, worth 270 million euros -- i.e. eight out of ten --. These are support that we are responding to the needs and emergencies that autonomous, pem and micro-enterprises move us to, the specific sectors that are suffering more directly from the consequences of restrictions on activity and which therefore deserve our full attention and deserve an immediate response. But our Galician Reactivation and Dynamic Plan is a living document, a document that adapts to the circumstances of each moment and looks for solutions to the challenges we face along the way. Surely the best example of this adaptability is the rescue plan approved by the Galician Union for self-government, micro-enterprises and hostage; a plan that was launched last November and which is a complement to dealing with that immediate response that needs the most affected sectors. We activate 160 million euros in 90 days in direct aids, precisely for self-employed, micro-enterprises, hospitality, Greek commerce or tourism, and also for establishments closed by health emergency -- such as gymnasiums, children's leisure establishments or salients --. They know that in the first phase of this rescue plan -- already processed -- there are between 1,200 and 9,200 euros of aid, which now adds the second round of the plan, which will allow us to reach these 160 million euros and which will be dealt with with with with with the highest urgency for more people and fewer requirements. We are aware that at the moment it is essential to prioritize agility in processing, as we are trying to do. The most affected sectors know that we are next to them and that since the administration we will fulfill our obligation to accompany them at this complicated stage. Over the past few months, around 8,600 establishments have access to specific aid programmes that we have set up for sectors such as commerce or housing. We are talking about support for installation, reform and adaptation of terraces, to encourage digital commerce or eco-innovation in design, packaging, packaging, packaging or labelling; and to adapt the installations of the establishments to security protocols by promoting a secure trade image. In fact, on the self-diagnosis platform that we launched to advise on health issues small businesses have already registered 5,622 businesses on the platform. It is a sector, that of trade, to which we will continue to pay special attention, because it will again be a priority sector within the aid of the second rescue plan, as it was in the first plan. We understand your concern, we share it, and we want to recognize the degree of understanding and adaptation of all of them to a context of restrictions, which logically have economic consequences that cannot be overlooked. Therefore, for the Galician Union, it is a priority to continue to maintain a permanent dialogue with the trade sector, with which we continue to design new measures that contribute to its reactivation and defence of what it represents for the Greek economy -- 17% of employment and 13% of gross domestic product --. Ladies and gentlemen, along with these initiatives, which allow for a quick response among the sectors most affected by the curfew-19, we also need to articulate measures to enable us to make the pandemic an opportunity for the transformation of business fabric. Ensuring Galicia's economic recovery in terms of sustainable economy means working hard for the ecological transition and industrial transition. We therefore need measures that transform our economy, measures that have the challenge of modernising industry and ensuring growth by supporting us in the strategic sectors of our economy to turn them into engines that drag and mobilize all the productive tissue, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. Following the guidelines that mark the European Commission itself, this is the main objective that moves the Greek candidacy to the European Funds Next Generation, a candidacy in which tractor projects have as a major link to the union of innovation. The central element of what all projects spin, and what Galicia still has much to say, is precisely innovation. The desire to vertebrate and promote the policies of innovation in Greece within the framework of the new strategy of smart specialization will be what enables us to continue to differentiate ourselves from knowledge. Because this commitment to innovation is an added value that we can observe in every Greek candidacy that opts for European funds. This is the case, as your lords know, of the Pole for the transformation of Galicia, an initiative that the Union is pushing along with 30 companies and technology centres to develop eight strategic projects that will mobilise 3,300 million euros of public-private investment in three years. They are, as you know, a center for the impulse of the circular economy -- with the objective of managing 2.6 million tons of waste per year -- a plant for obtaining textile fibres from cellulose, with the ability to generate between 150,000 and 200,000 tons annually, and two initiatives to ensure the energy self-sustainment of the Pole, which are a first plant for the production of green hydrogen from Reganosa's hand -- and I say "first" because we trust that there will be more similar initiatives in Galicia -- and also the development of 1,000 megawats of new renewable power, both wind and solar. Four tractor projects will be accompanied by so many other proposals linked to the creation of logistics chains, a research and innovation centre, the launch of digital laboratories. And, as a novelty, a plan for the recovery of land is added to these projects. With all these projects, which form a whole, what we intend to do is to convince the Government that the Pole for the transformation of Galicia is the exact definition of a PERTE -- of the "strategic projects for economic recovery and transformation" that the Government itself has regulated through the Royal Decree published on December 31 of last year --. That, of course, is the main objective of the Galician Union. Therefore, following the recommendations of the expert committee, Junta will activate a public-private collaboration mechanism that serves as support and impetus for both the transformation pole projects and for all those tractor projects that we can present from Galicia and that are aligned with the objectives of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. The private initiative is the partner needed to opt for the greatest guarantees for European funds, so it marks the Government itself by promoting public-private collaboration initiatives. And in this way, through the driving mechanism supported by the Union, we will have professional management that enables us to speed up projects, have feasibility studies, develop business models and dynamize the collection of funds and industrial and technological partners. In my speech to the Reactivation Commission, on which I had the opportunity to present to them the main projects that make up the Greek candidacy to the Next Generation funds, I have already put forward other initiatives that join this transformation pole, and which focus, for example, on improving our public services or developing strategic sectors in Galicia. These are sectors such as the automotive sector, with the Autoanco project, which presents the sector's Galician industry and its knowledge centres, through the CTAG, CEAGA and the PSA Group; such as the naval sector, which opts for these funds through the Green Bay Project, promoted by the Aclunaga, with the collaboration of the Harbour Authority of Vigo, the CTAG and Aimen, for the electrification of maritime transport in the Vigo River; such as the aerospace sector, with the Galician Aerospace Pole, which we want to consolidate through projects that presented both Indra and Babcock, and which add up to an amount of 119 million euros; such as the tourism sector, with various actions to improve services in the direction of the Santiago Way; such as the forest sector, with measures to boost the construction in wood and eco-innovation, through the Galaxy Agency of the Forest Industry; such as the tourism sector, the biotechnic industry, which is present with three projects linked to the driving industry’s of the hub industry’s of the hub, and the energy industry’s, which are linked to the energy industry’s to the energy industry’s, which are linked to the energy industry’s to the energy industry’s. These are initiatives that demonstrate Galicia's commitment. Galicia is doing its homework by presenting all the manifestations of interest that the Government of Spain is publishing. We're putting projects on the table so that each of the lines posed by the Executive in the eid of green hydrogen, of electric and sustainable mobility, of industrial modernization or of rural depopulation have the right answer by Galicia. As you know, in this Parliament, the Economic Reactivation Act is currently being dealt with, with which we want to put the most appropriate policy framework for both the development of these tractor projects and for any other investment initiative in Galicia, projects that will be able to see their processing expedited and that will have the Doing Business office at their disposal for the development of their entire administrative process. In particular, the new law states that to be a tractor project, it needs to be a strategic industrial project and hence an investment of 20 million euros or the creation of 100 jobs, and that it is a project likely to be financed by the next generation European funds. But besides, ladies and gentlemen, the law also collects the expansion of the figure of the "priority business initiative", about which an extension of its scope is proposed for power generation projects from renewables when they are linked to industrial self-consumption. It's a denomination that can also receive those wind projects that fall under one of these three cases: when they create or consolidate a minimum of 25 jobs linked to an industrial project, when they have justified all the industrial commitments derived from the Order of March 29, 2010 -- the wind competition -- and when they generate an investment volume of more than 20 million euros. We're working, ladies and gentlemen, to provide maximum legal security for any investment project that is going to be carried out in Galicia to give you a processing, at the same time, as quickly as possible. With this new text we want to move stability and we want to transfer confidence to the business fabric so that it won't be the administration of "you come back tomorrow." That's why the law deepens in administrative simplification by setting a general three-month deadline for issuing reports related to the Autonomic Administration -- applying administrative silence -- and investment support, for which, among other measures, the figure of the "municipal certification entities" is proposed, which will allow the municipalities to speed up the approval of licences with the same legal and technical guarantees as they have so far. Ladies and gentlemen, to the councils -- and today in particular to all groups in this House -- we call for the maximum support for this new law to be translated into more economic activity for Galicia, more industry and more employment for the Greeks and the Greeks. I ask you to support this new policy framework to enable us to build trust and attract investment. It is the framework that Galicia needs but, above all, it is the framework that investors need and that workers need to achieve this economic recovery from Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that the industrial future of Galicia goes through double transition, digital and ecological. And the new Act of Economic Reactivation has no other task than to transfer -- as I told you -- the maximum legal guarantee to any business project that develops in Galicia in this sense. Industry is at the heart of all our policies, and I hope the government will give it that consideration. Because, for Galicia, to Galicia, to carry out a fair energy transition that supports the protection of the environment with economic activity also means to give certainty and alternatives that guarantee the industrial future of the neighborhoods where the central centrals of the Bridges and Meirama are located; it means to work together so that Siemens-Gamesa does not close its plant step for the somozas aerogenerators in full "boom" of wind energy in Galicia and Spain; it means to take into account the reality of the Navy region, which needs this industrial reactivation and that Alcoa is added to the majority of the world; it means, ladies, to defend our industry installed on the coast; it means to exempt the Navantyload of wind energy from wind energy in Galicia and Spain; it means to take account of the reality of this need for this industrial revival of the marine region; it means, once at all, that the dry dam dry is a reality; and it also means to count a competitive electrically competitive electric price that brings stability to the energy industry; it is expected to the energy intensive industry -- you have the -- knows you know that you wait -- you wait as you wait as you are to wait for the Felen. you are -- know that the fr. you are waiting that the frigas -- you are told you wait for the frigas; you are not by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by by the friga Ice that the friga Ice that the friga I grew, Icecececece, Ice, Ice, Ice, Ice that you you, Icecece, Ice, Icece, Ice, Ice, I was, I was, Ice, I was, Ice, I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was able I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was I was If it's true that all European funds are going to be a booster to accelerate the transition to a greener economy, that transition must first and foremost be fair and planned. If there are jobs, businesses, entire communities and families living in the sectors that have to lead this transformation, then we won't be talking about a transition, we'll be talking about a break-up. Ladies and gentlemen, the complex moment we are living in requires everyone's effort, but in particular it requires agreement and dialogue by the political forces to trace the path to be followed. All the groups that we represent in this House must work to reach consensus on those who build the future of Galicia, because that is exactly what the Greeks and the Greeks are demanding of us, a useful policy and a policy that has an impact on the economy and well-being. So let's look for maximum agreements, look for agreements between all the parliamentary groups that allow us to alleviate the effects of this crisis, but also get out more reinforced and design among all the Galicia of the year 2030. The business fabric, the economic and social agents, the workers and, ultimately, the Greeks and the Greeks are learning to face this pandemic with determination and courage, demonstrating that we will all be able to get out together. Let us do this spirit of collaboration and work together in this House for the economic recovery of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to take forward the true transformation of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u49	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u50	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. First of all, it is good for the Counsellor to come to this Parliament and explain the Council's lines of action. We, in that sense, value it positively. And finally, it is not that you have brought essential news in this audience about what you have brought in the Reactivation Committee or even about Mr. Núñez Feijó's appearance here last week. There is a common element, yes, which is also the confrontation of you with the State Government -- again in the management of the pandemic --. Mr. Núñez Feijóo 15 days ago in full confronting the state in health management and economic management, in the economic effects that he has the management of the pandemic, and excluding his own responsibilities, the responsibilities that the self-government of Galicia assigns to the Council of Galicia, the self-government. You, in that sense, have also tried to shift the responsibilities towards the State by speaking -- in the health field -- of the vaccination plan, when you know perfectly well that the vaccination plan is perfectly consensual with the autonomous communities in the Interterritorial Committee, in which counsellors participate, and that, in addition, the availability of vaccines is a matter that affects the whole of Europe since it is centralized the provision of vaccines. So, the only thing that explains that this type of artificial debate is, basically, that it is about circumventing the debate on important health issues -- for example, with Mr. Núñez Feijóo's calls that initially questioned the alarm state and that they now demand the extension of the curfew -- and that it is also about excluding the responsibilities of the Galician Union in that call that he made to save Christmas, which consequently had health effects in Galicia -- as we all know -- and hence also economic. In the diagnosis you make, we can match. It is indeed a dramatic situation, unpublished; at last, it has no parallel in the last eighty years. What we do not agree so much with you is in the measures being taken, in the continuance of measures, in the speed of measures, in the agility of measures and in the extent of the means. We don't question whether you've taken any measures. We have always said, indeed, that the Galician Council, you and the Economic Council, have taken action. Measures have been taken since the Igape, but these are not the measures that in the unpublished situation you describe, and which we all know, needs this country. It is also a situation that allows us to be faced, because last week, or fifteen days ago, an expansive budget was approved in this House, an budget that supports an enormous spending capacity, so the Galician Union has room for manoeuvre, with more than 1,575 million euros of additional spending capacity compared to last year. But, indeed, we do not see that this spending capacity, that debt capacity which the Council of Galicia currently has as a result of these expansional budgets, is directly facing an absolutely agonistic reality, to reactivating the sectors that are now completely collapsed as a result of the clinical measures that are being taken and which are forcing them to close, of course, and as a result of the fall in consumption and demand resulting from the current situation of the pandemic. Counsellor, you were talking about the fact that the German GDP in the last quarter has actually fallen less than the national average. We can agree, of course, but throughout the year, the German GDP will fall more probably than you indicated in the budget, or what you initially imagined. There are studies from BBVA, Funcas, which tell us that the Greek economy is going to fall by 10.4% or 11% -- therefore, more than 9.7% that you announced in the budgets and that it will cause an important impact on employment as well --. We are talking about an estimated loss of 20,000 to 30,000 jobs, jobs that will basically be destroyed in the sector linked to self-employed people, in the sector linked to small pemes, which are currently the ones that concentrate on the maximum of Galician production. In fact, the Greek economy resists better in this context, or it resisted better than the national average. In fact, he has explanations as well. It resists better but also recovers worse, as we all know. And the Greek economy, as you know, before the year 2020, was already coming from an obvious process of imbalance in relation to the growth in Spain. It grew less than the average of the state as a whole in terms of GDP. Therefore, Counsellor, we understand that, in the face of such a situation, all the capacity for indebtedness, all the capacity for spending, we must orientate to reactivate the economy, to reactivate the two hundred thousand autonomouss who are now in an absolutely dramatic situation. These two hundred thousand autonomouss account for nine thousand less than those in January 2020. These 2,200,000 self-sufficient are the most important collective in business and job creation. Ninety-five percent of this country's share is autonomous. 40 % of the employment in this country is the share of between 1 and 9 workers. And that is where the greatest impact of the crisis is actually occurring. The weight in the productive tissue of the autonomous, the pemes, is very high, and consequently it is very vulnerable, especially in provinces like Lugo and Ourense -- maybe in Ourense where most --. Anyway, Mr. Tellado's rocking with his head. I guess he's got the data like me. Ourense is in which most, and probably due to its overly self-dependent productive structure, with a poorly developed industrial sector, and where, in addition, the measure of confinement and closing measures were extended more intensively than in Galicia -- as you know --. And, well, that's the question. The smaller size of our companies, the smaller wager for R & D, the temporary employment associated with these small businesses, the dependence on exclusively European markets, is precisely what leads to our economy and our recovery. And you know that. And that's where we have to face all the reactive capacity from the Galician Union. We understand that we need to take far more vigorous measures. You in the area of the hostel just told us about a number of aids that have just been taken. The ones I know, the ones that have been published, are 87 million -- exactly 17 million in the area of the hostel, 30 million in the field of self-government, 37 million in a second line of self-government and 3 million that exactly mobilized the Igape for certain types of actions linked to the terraces and other issues --. Those are the measures that have been taken, those are the measures. That adds up exactly right now 90 million -- 87 million --. In fact, the Galician Board now speaks to us of a plan of 75 million -- told us about it by Mr. President of the Board at the last plenary -- a plan that is not announced but of what I have here the draft and that actually envisages direct help for the hosts of 1,900 euros -- if this draft is actually published --. Given that the hostel is closed in Galicia and there are 21,000 establishments -- or there were in 2019 -- obviously it would take more than 12 million to consider this draft to help this sector. It would take exactly 36 million. So, what we're on with the Galician Union is a greater capacity to help -- in this case the most affected sectors --. And we also demand it from the State Administration, not just the Galician Union. And the State Administration has mobilized 20% of GDP to help the economy as a whole in the state -- also in Galicia -- with EUR 1.2 billion for ERTE and autonomous benefits. And now it will establish a direct aid plan once the aid framework in this area is flexible or approved in the European Commission. And, therefore, we understand that in this situation, Counsellor -- and we're not going to talk about industrial policy, because that's what we're going to leave behind later -- in this context, the 75 million that are announced are absolutely insufficient, will be absolutely insufficient. The fall in GDP is going to be much greater than originally envisaged in the budget of 2021 -- that is, to which you initially thought -- and therefore the destruction of employment is going to be much greater. And to avoid this, that's where the Galician Union has to use that effort, that expansive budget and that spending capacity that gives the 1,575 million extras that are envisaged in the budget. For now, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u51	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. The effects, the changes and, above all, the social divide that leaves the coward will be very, very important. Its dimension will depend on the management of the health crisis and what we delay in regaining normality, especially the economic measures that are being taken. All of them, the Galician society in general, hopes, wants and needs what has been called "a fair and galley out of the crisis," a management and some measures designed to ensure that the flow of economic resources reaches all social and political layers focused on rescuing people and not on the beginning of large corporations that, in the opportunity of boxing with the pandemic, have taken time to sharpen the fulcrum without dissimulation. To show, the behavior of large pharmaceutical vaccine manufacturers, who, protected by the darkness of contract confidentiality, traded with the life and health of millions of people without the slightest scruple. [[Applause]] The pandemic put us all in front of the mirror, forced us to rethink our priorities as human beings and as society. We learn by force the need for governments to contain resources and instruments to intervene in the economy. We learn by force to value public services as what they really are: that network of social protection is absolutely essential that in cases like those we are living in can make the difference between life and death, between poverty and worthy existence. We wait, we wish and we need a fair and gale out of the crisis, measures that reach all of us and all of us. But what lets you see the Galician Union, for now, are the photos and names of the old ones. And it doesn't let you see much more, because the People's Party also likes to move in the darkness of confidentiality to do business, of confidentiality as an alibi to walk free hands doing what would you know! Because that's why they can't report projects so they won't copy us, it's funny. To be developing projects together with companies that are at the same time developing projects with other governments and institutions -- because companies are the same everywhere -- and keeping it under the cover of confidentiality is putting them in a tray that are doing business with and with others looking for the best postman while citizenship, which is going to be the one who pays the bill of all this, wait for a ransom that doesn't come without knowing what's going on in the kitchen. In the BNG, it is clear that the different economic and political possibilities of the European Union's central countries with regard to peripheral countries will lead to a finite echo where the differences grow, definitely consolidating the famous -- and always denied even real -- two-speed Europe. It is a risk that has already been warned by some States when the time frame was presented, the agreement to allow State aid for a period of time, a risk that has been corroborated by the first data provided by the European Commission, which indicated that Germany represented more than half of the total emergency aid against the cod granted by all Member States. This context of such unequal competition between the Member States and territories of the European Union seems to us absolutely decisive in the need to pine as a country, to develop an ambitious country strategy, to weave the necessary complicities between all sectors of Galicia with the aim of making the most of all our potential and resources -- be economic, industrial, energy or cultural -- and generate wealth for the whole of Galician society. And in this strategy, productive investment and industry are fundamental. The BNG has always bet on the need to provide us with the regulatory framework and the means necessary to promote a solid and diversified industrial fabric which is especially affixed by those sectors that had implementation in the country, with export capacity, technologically advanced and job generators. Among those means that we consider necessary, having own financial entities is fundamental to the success of a country strategy. In this regard, Professor Edelmiro López, a professor of Reactivation, said in a very descriptive way: "It may be that at first economics he thought companies make their decisions based on the technical feasibility of projects, but at this point in life we know that complicity between financial entities and business fabric is fundamental, as happened before, as is the case in northern Italy or Germany. It is a debate that we must recover in a scenario of strong liquidity tensions in companies, of scarce public resources, and that we will also have to bear in mind the huge profits gained over these years by the rescued Abanca, which today, if it were public, could play a radical role in economic recovery. Let us remember that Abanca reported profits for EUR 3,000 million between 2014 and 2019, and that in the first nine months of this year of the pandemic, by 2020, it earned EUR 143 million -- EUR 143 million, for example, from the budget of the Economic, Employment and Industry Council in 2020 for business development --. [[Applause]] We also consider it necessary to reopen the debate on the participation of the Union in certain companies or sectors of a strategic nature for Galicia, bringing closer to finance and stability while we gain influence in governance and in fulfilling the objectives of the companies. Together, having Greek financial institutions means not only more credit opportunities, but a certain alignment with the common general interests, just as public participation in companies is an obvious way of ensuring loyalty and linkage with the country to avoid relocations. That is, we would be earning important allies for a country strategy with the aim of generating resources and wealth for all Greeks and Greeks and, for once, socializing benefits, something essential in the current context of an unprecedented economic and social crisis, with continuous calls for the shared and solidarity of all and all that it obliges -- as I said before -- to the fact that economic recovery is equally shared. And in order to reactivate the economy, all the manuals say that we must really prioritize investment in our productive sectors, for example, to infrastructures, which must now be secondary; to prioritize productive investment in key sectors such as the energy sector. BNG has been advocating four concrete proposals that, combined, would have a great impact on the creation of companies and the improvement of competitiveness throughout the industrial sector, such as putting Galician energy resources to the service of wealth creation, with a Welsh energy company, a center for R+D+i energy storage in Bridges, deep-lost aids for self-consumption installations and the development of a regulatory framework that promotes the establishment of industrial projects linked to wind farms installations. Another sector that has a drag effect on many small and medium-sized industrial enterprises is the shipbuilding and maritime technologies sector. This would be the impetus of a galley plan for the naval sector, with public participation, to promote collaboration between companies and a sector that combines specialization and diversified supply -- all with the support of a technology centre of the naval sector in Ferrol from the Joint Research Unit Navantia-University of the Crown, providing it with long-term stable budgets and taking advantage of synergies for military construction, much more advanced --. Finally, there are still industrial sectors in our country with strong growth potential -- some pending ones still closing their productive cycles in their own country -- and which, in general, share a question: for all of them -- food, wood and stone -- the promotion of an image or prestigious country would be a factor that would bring value to their final products. But the most urgent thing today -- which obviously doesn't need to come in any manual -- is the obligation to activate a real rescue plan for sectors most affected by the crisis: hospitality, small trade, tourism agencies, events, culture and shows. Do you know what the merchants say when they're asked for the help of the Board?: "What help?" Mr. Vice President, we're already late. Don't hold it any longer because they're falling. The Galician Trade Federation recently announced that 20 % of companies have already closed, and that in February closures in the sector can reach 40 %. The Lugo Host Federation estimates that closures can reach between 60% and 70% of the premises. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, put in place as soon as possible a genuine rescue plan for our economy. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u53	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Today we are attending the presence of the second Vice-President of Galicia to take account of the measures he is taking from the first moment to the present day, and also of the measures planned by the Government of Greece to combat this triple pandemic: health, economic and social. And it's true that while it's not progressing in the first part, in health -- and that has a lot to do with the vaccine -- it's true that we have to take measures to shield our economy and that that allows us to shield our society too -- especially the most vulnerable sectors of our society --. And so I want to start by congratulating the entire team of Vice-Presidentship Second and Council of Economic and Industrial Affairs on the work they've been doing since the first moment of this crisis by taking measures day by day, taking measures adapted to the circumstances of each moment, which have allowed solutions to people, families and small and medium-sized enterprises at every moment. Today the councillor presented measures in two directions, short-term quick response measures, for situations that arise at the moment, and economic transformation measures, longer-term measures, measures that aim to transform the Greek economy into a greener, more sustainable, more digital economy. With regard to Mr. Francisco Rivera's intervention, I believe that on the vaccination plan, Mr. Francisco, I have to tell you that what is not in agreement with the autonomous communities is that Galicia sends fewer vaccines than it would proportionately correspond to it according to the Danish population. That's the reality. And so you can't say that you're consensual because that's not consensual, that's a political decision of a government that prefers maybe those vaccines to go to Catalonia or maybe go to Andorra. The PSOE seems to be insufficient for the measures of the Greek Government, but they do not propose anything other than more resources, more means. And then the truth is, since the administrations in which they rule, they don't act. You say the PSdEG-PSOE is very concerned about self-government and small businesses. Well, to be so concerned, so concerned, by the autonomous, the fact is that there are lots of administrations in which the Socialist Party governs where no support measures are taken for the autonomous. And, more importantly, where the People's Party rules and we take measures to support the self-employed, you take them to trial and try to paralyze them. This is the case with the House of Ourense. And that's what the Socialist Party did in your province, Mr. Francisco Rivera, to denounce those aids and try to stop the self-employed of Ourense from collecting them. So I don't think it's receipt. And, Mr. Fernández Alfonso, I make one reference to your intervention. I don't think it's from receiving an anti-European speech at this time as the Galician Nationalist Block has just used. Because it is precisely Europe that enables us to save the furniture in a situation where the Government of Spain is not up to the circumstances. If obtaining vaccines depended on the Government of Spain, we'd be caught. And, of course, the possibility of reactivating the economy that enables us to have these European funds demonstrates that the European Union is, of course, an indispensable mechanism at this time to deal with this crisis. We, from the People's Party, cannot coincide with that vision that the Socialist Party has about which is the situation in Galicia. Galicia is resisting much better than the Spanish ensemble this pandemic. He likes it or doesn't like it, Galicia is better resisting the economic crisis resulting from the coward because it has a government that meets the circumstances that provides stability to Galicia -- which is not in Spain --. It provides stability and it's a government that governs, which is not in Spain. That's why the fall in GDP in Galicia is probably 6,4 % while in Spain it's 9,1 %. That's probably why the industrial production index in Galicia fell by 8.6% while Spain fell by more than 9%. That's probably why exports fell less in Galicia than in Spain as a whole. And possibly that is why the sales index of trade has fallen less in Galicia than in Spain as a whole and the rate of unemployment in the fourth quarter of 2020 is 11.7% in Galicia while on average in Spain is 16.1%. Something we'll be doing right; therefore, I believe that this catastrophe leads us nowhere, leads to nothing, absolutely nothing. Look, you didn't want to talk about it, but the industry is at the heart of the policies of this government, and that's why the budget of the Economic and Industrial Council this year 2021 -- an budget to which you voted against, by the way -- if you increase by 58%. It may seem little, but it increases by 58% compared to the previous year. But they voted against it. Look, the real situation of industry is that it faces a Government of Spain which does not give stability or credibility, which is committed to improvising permanently in its decision-making. And the Welsh industry is very concerned about certain decisions that have nothing to do with the Galician Union but have a lot to do with the energy policy of the Socialist Government. And that's the second pandemic we have to fight, the second pandemic. Alcoa, Alu Iberian, the whole electro-intensive sector is in bad shape because that approved status is insufficient. All companies say it. It's all at stake, Alcoa, Iberian Alu and a lot more. And all the Greek forest producers selling wood to Cence are worried to see if the Government of Spain is still ahead with its intention to bottle Galicia, from Pontevedra. The same is true for companies in the sea sector, affected, first of all, by the Law of the Back, for that review that the Government wants to do; and also affected by the Law of Climate Change which is currently dealing with the socialist government in the Congress of Deputies. Navantia and all the auxiliary Ferrol naval industry are in bad shape because there is no workload because the F-110 frigates have budgeted since 2018 but not executed by those who have been ruling Spain since that date. The concern is because there is no workload, because the orders that were on the table have lost this government and because, in addition, the Government of Spain refuses to give it a bridge ship that allows us to have workload until the beginning of the plate cut of frigates F-110. Barriers is waiting for an opportunity through this fund to support the solvency of strategic companies. Are you going to do something about the government? The whole automotive sector is in bad shape, first of all, because of the increase in the tax on registrations that lowers sales. And Vigo's automobile is pending from that electrical substation where the Government of Spain is neither expected nor shown. The Bridges and Meirama are closed by the Government of Spain for an energy transition which, of course, is neither transition nor fair to anyone. It's a government that doesn't offer any kind of alternative. Siemens-Gamesa marches from Spain in his production of pass. He's not leaving Galicia, he's not leaving Somozas, he's leaving Spain. They closed Navarre, they want to close Cuenca, they want to close the Somoza plant in the middle of the wind sector. Are you going to do something about the Government of Spain? Will you say something about PSdEG-PSOE? It would be nice if you could use your next intervention to talk about it. 30,000 jobs are at stake. Adding all the industrial references that I have just made to you are 30,000 industrial jobs at stake by decisions of the Government of Spain, which has become the second pandemic for our economy and our society. About the Next Generation funds they didn't talk about. You haven't talked about the Socialist Party because of the funds, well... as you now have a new partner called Vox and with them they approve the real decree that will distribute these funds with opacity, from back to back to autonomous communities, through an office installed in the Moncloa and directed by the President of the Government himself -- which goes against exactly all the guidelines that the European Commission has given for the management of these funds --... These funds are a great opportunity for Galicia, all over Spain and all of Europe to build a sustainable economy, a green economy, a digital economy, to transform our economy. If these funds mock us to be a game in the hands of the government of Socialists and Powerists, there will finally be no economic reactivation. You will continue to come here to criticize the Government of Greece, but the reality is that you, serving Galicia, zero. I suppose the management of these funds, the distribution criteria, will speak in the second round. On the plan to support the hostel, hey, we set up two plans. We're on the second, deal with the sector. We offer to all the administrations that enter: the local administration, the provincial administration and also the Government of Spain -- that the Government of Spain says, at the mouth of the minister of the branch, that "no talking" --. You are missing from the management of the pandemic, neither are you expected. They approved the state of alarm and disappeared. Here the autonomous communities deal with the bull. We hid Pedro Sánchez in Moncloa. And you come here to ask for explanations when the German Government comes! And where is the Government of Spain? Missing since the alarm status was approved. No, missing, no. He's in Catalonia campaigning for the great health minister, the philosopher Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u56	This is the mockery of the Socialist Government. So, look, we're in such a difficult situation that it would be good to try to reach out to all of us, try to collaborate with the governments that are planting them towards this pandemic. And so we've been working on a committee of economic experts that's been working for eight months since the first time. We're listening to your proposals and running them. We are also listening, from the hand of social dialogue, to the proposals of the social and economic agents of Galicia. Therefore, they know that every time they criticize the German Government, they are criticizing all those who close their shoulders.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u58	I hope that in the closing shift of the groups we will make positive proposals as each one, from his or her responsibilities, can collaborate to fight against the economic and social consequences of this pandemic. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u59	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I wanted was to thank you for the comments of all the spokesmen in the parliamentary groups. And be assured that the Government of Greece is having an open stance on all initiatives that will promote economic reactivation. In that sense, if we have a hand in this debate so that we can reach consensus and agreements, above all, from realism. I think that is important: to address the reality that we currently have in our economy, in our productive sectors, and logically the role that we should play in all administrations. Because we all have to work together, precisely to give this answer, because of course our goal is to be with the autonomous, with the small and medium-sized companies, with the micropemes, so they have that right answer. And I believe that, frankly, with regard to the rescue plan that the German Government has put in place, there is no similar initiative in all of Spain. I would like you to bring here any autonomous community that is currently committed to a rescue plan such as the Galician Union with our own and our small and medium-sized enterprises. And we will continue, because we will logically continue to give that answer. We have already committed and executed, indeed, 75 million euros. And now we're going to activate that second plan that we're consensing, that we're closing. So let's give that answer. I sincerely believe that in this House we should be united, united to ask the Central Government to stop scheming the last one at the expense of direct aid. Why? All over Europe, governments are giving that answer with direct help. As you know, the European Central Bank itself -- it's not an opinion, it's the European Central Bank -- places Spain in the queue of the euro area in aid against the crisis. That's the data. And the fact is that in Spain aid represents only 1.3% of gross domestic product when the average of the 19 countries we use the euro is 4%. They're data from the European Central Bank, they're not questionable, they're targets. Mr. Rivera told me about the ERTE. The ERTS know that they are paying with a loan from the European Commission of EUR 20 billion, just as other countries are doing. But the Government of Spain does not want to address the debate on direct aid, nor does it want to address the need to accompany the self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises with a fiscal policy that responds to their needs. Why is the VAT not lowered to tourism, as other European countries are doing, like Germany? Why don't IVE go down to the hair salons? Nor is the VAT lowered from the bill of light to the most vulnerable consumers. Why are we raising the registration tax in the automotive sector when you're going through such an enormous difficulty in selling vehicles? We are therefore trying to work together from this House as well. And with complete honesty and full cooperation with the Government of the State, we want to transfer to you that, in fact, it actually turns these direct aids, as other countries are doing, and that it accompanies you with a fiscal policy appropriate to the needs of women and self-employed people. The autonomous communities will continue to collaborate, logically, and drive these measures, such as the rescue plan or how it is the recovery plan we have been operating since the Economic Vice-Presidentship. This year 2021 we have already activated EUR 90 million with the aim of boosting this economic reactivation, both in terms of funding and in terms of aid for entrepreneurship, talent and also in terms of fair energy transition. It is EUR 90 million that are published in the Official Journal of Galicia and therefore are already available for submission of the various applications. I believe that, honestly, that is the way to address, develop, a useful policy for self-government and for small and medium-sized enterprises, because that is what they are asking us to do. We also asked the local administration to do so. Why do the municipalities not accompany the needs of self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises with taxes and the charges they charged for the year 2020 and 2021 to activities that are closed by a health emergency? Why? Generally speaking, 313 municipalities had to be working together to give that answer, just as it is being given to Galician Union and should be given to the central government. We have to work with that vision because that's what self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises are asking for. Mr. Rivera, you were asking me about the macroeconomic situation. The only thing I've moved is that, objectively, Galicia is and is going to be among the autonomous communities with the least impact of the crisis resulting from the cover of the year 2019. We are in a better situation because in Galicia there is political stability, because we have less deficit and because we have less debt. I think it's also good to recognize it because that's what's allowing us to take action from the Galician Union. And because the productive sectors are having good behavior, as is the automotive sector, as is the agri-food sector, as is the response that they are giving -- I say -- the main strategic sectors and, in particular, the manufacturing industry. I think that's the reality, and if we look at the fourth quarter data, the gross domestic product is actually going down by 6,4 %, but it's 2.7 points less than in Spain as a whole. I think that's the reality, we have to keep working to improve the data, and logically we don't just comply with Galicia's better behavior than Spain's average. But it's a fact that I think it's good to reflect it. With regard to the management of the health pandemic, Mr Rivera, the only thing I have tried to move in my presence is that it is indeed good to establish criteria for sharing consistent with the autonomous communities. And Galicia is making a proposal that seems reasonable to us. What we are looking for is the support of the groups of this House. It seems reasonable to us that in the following phases of vaccination the distribution of vaccines throughout the territory is based on the population of the target population. It seems reasonable. It's the only thing we're currently moving to the Government from the point of view of the vaccination plan. From there we are applying the criteria agreed at the conference. In the health issue it seems reasonable to us that it is done in this way, simply because in Galicia we have an older population, and if the criterion is to vaccinate those over 80 years old, because it seems reasonable that this distribution criterion is based on the population, in an objective way and trying to collaborate -- I say -- with the Government of Spain in that vaccination plan, which is what we are doing from the very first moment -- in fact, Galicia is from the autonomous communities that have practically developed the whole vaccination plan in the first phase --. Mr. Fernández, I have listened carefully to your intervention. I think it's an intervention that you're surely directing to a very specific issue of Galicia. But it gives the impression -- and I move it in this context and in this debate -- that it seems to you to be more concerned with justifying Galician self-determination -- forgetting the role of the Galician Nationalist Block in an agreement with the Government, which now seems to want to deny it --. I understand perfectly well that you intend to justify Galicia's self-determination by defending the public enterprise, defending a public energy company, defending a public banking system. We know that's the speech of the Galician Nationalist Block, but it's that the Greeks are in a pandemic and we need answers. And if they really want to justify their policy of self-determination in Galicia, they're just going to be giving them back, because they're just not trying to give that answer that -- I say -- they're asking. And besides, I think that the Galego Nationalist Block, which is ruling in deputies and municipalities, has to give an answer. Or do you want to play a role as rapporteurs? Aren't they ruling in three deputies? What are the direct aids that are granting Members in this context? Aren't they ruling in town halls? What is the response to the pandemic of the municipalities where the Galician Nationalist Block governs? What do you want? Do you want to bring here a dogmatic discourse about their vision of the public economy for Galicia and its self-determination? I believe that honestly the debate is another, and surely it is confusing itself if really what comes here is defending Galicia's self-determination through the initiatives of the Galician Nationalist Block. What surprises me is that I'm talking about industry. Where is the defense of the Galego Nationalist Block of the workers of Ence and the Greek forest producers? If you want to close Ence! Where is the truly defense of the Galician Nationalist Block for companies in the sea-industry chain that are currently threatened by the Government's back law? Where and where is the support of the Galego Nationalist Block to the proposal of the Galician and Government of Spain so that biofuels can continue to be produced at the Bridges? Where is the explicit support of the Galician Nationalist Block for military construction in Navantia and for the construction of the dry dam? Why don't we talk about specific issues and leave speeches for other issues? Because here in Parliament we have come to give answers to the Greeks and the Greeks, and, frankly, in this context today, I believe that the employees of Navantia, of Ence, of Alcoa, of the Bridges, of Meirama, do not feel represented by the Nationalist Galego Block. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate in this reply that in the audience there were two concrete proposals which I believe are in a context of utmost importance to Galicia from an economic point of view. And I refer explicitly to the Next Generation funds and the Act of Economic Reactivation. And we understand that in this House we should work in that consensus -- as in the context of direct aid -- to move a common position from Galicia to the Government in the case of European funds; and also towards entrepreneurs and investors, in the case of the Reactivation Act. There is room for a Greek candidacy that can capture European funds and we are pushing these initiatives for public-private collaboration. I would transfer to the Galician Nationalist Block that there is no kind of occultism, none; simply the ability that projects can articulate from Galicia so that there will be that answer. And we are putting forward proposals in the wake of the expressions of interest that the Government is presenting and, therefore, adapting the Greek candidacy to the initiatives which the European Commission and the Government of Spain are proposing. So in Galicia we want to choose that we can produce green hydrogen, that there are specific measures in the municipalities to fight against the depopulation of rural nuclei, to modernise industry, for sustainable mobility, for the modernization of transport. I think it's the measures we're putting forward. But if it's true -- as in the case of vaccines -- that we need the Government to implement and transfer objectively and transparently the distribution criteria. And we need the support of the parliamentary groups of this House, of the three, and we need to move jointly to the Government of Spain, which seems to us to take into account the depopulation criteria, the ageing of citizenship, the geographical dispersal, the digital transition and the levels of income per capita. Right now -- I'm going to transfer objective data -- the Government is using changing criteria and they're moving away from those used in the autonomic financing system. I'm referring again to a target. And, in fact, to apply these criteria -- the criteria of the autonomous financing system -- taking into account the adjusted population, which, as you know, represents 6.6 % of the total, Galicia would have already received 570 million euros more than it is currently receiving. I'm not talking about the future, I'm talking about the funds that the Government of Spain has already distributed among the different autonomous communities, which are penalizing us through criteria that we do not agree with. At the bottom react-EU -- which, as you know, is a fund that is endowed with EUR 10,000 million -- the Government grants Galicia only 4,4 %. Do you agree? Does the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialist Party agree that in funds that are Feder funds to Galicia correspond to 4.4 percent? We understand you don't. And we want to move him to the Government, logically, and clearly, to correct this situation. Maybe you could transfer other criteria that are being applied. Do you think it is reasonable that the number of municipalities in each autonomous community without taking into account the population in the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants should be the number of municipalities? Do you think it is reasonable that in these Galician aid you will receive 2.9 % of the funds devoted to these municipalities simply because the distribution criterion is the number of municipalities without taking into account the population? That's what explains that Galicia is currently receiving 570 million euros -- 30% less than it had to perceive --. Well, we're looking for the help of parliamentary groups. And I think this is a very specific question, and if it's a matter of country, because we're simply moving the government to be transparent and moving objective criteria. And the system of self-financing seems to be a reasonable situation -- especially if what you want to develop is a division between the different autonomous communities --. As far as the Act of Reactivation is concerned, we need a policy framework so that all projects that are wanted to be developed right now in Galicia can really do so as quickly as possible. There's a bill that's being dealt with. What we want is, again, that it is useful for these projects to be a reality and that, therefore, they can be processed in time, that Galicia in that sense is an autonomous agile community from the administrative point of view and with that ability to attract new projects -- and, above all, to develop public-private collaboration projects that are being pushed into the issue of the next Generation -- funds. We understand it's a useful law, which is a law that will allow the development of these projects. So it also seems to us that in that context we had to act together. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of measures that the Galician Union has put in place to meet the needs of the pemes and the autonomous -- not only with the reactivation plan but also with the rescue plan --. They're aids that are coming in a direct way. What I propose is to work together to ask the Government of Spain to act with the same criteria that are applying the rest of the European countries. We don't ask him for anything else when we're asking for direct help. That's how Germany or France is doing. Why is there not a plan similar to the one in Spain to the European level of direct aid? Why is taxation penalizing autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises when other countries are doing so is a system of tax reduction? And also in that agreement the municipalities and the deputies can join together. Town Councils have it easy. They have taxes and fees that are being applied to activities that are being affected by the alarm decree. By the way, the Autonomous Community acts in a delegated way with regard to the Government itself; it therefore seems reasonable that this can be done in this way. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear context for working together in this Parliament, not only with direct assistance but also with the European Funds themselves Next Generation and, of course, with the so-called Act of Reactivation. These are conjunctural measures right now, measures that need our productive tissue so that they can meet these shock measures and at the same time the economic transformation measures of our productive tissue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u61	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For a special round of clarifications with duplicity of the Government, you have the floor, first and foremost, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u62	Thank you, President. Just one comment on vaccination: the plan is perfectly consensual, and to introduce this kind of debate with regard to possible discrimination between the Greeks and the Greeks in the distribution of vaccines, the only thing that introduces demagoxia in an absolutely transcendental matter. And I think that, at last, in these kinds of issues, we have to have a little more respect for the whole of citizens. I think getting into this kind of debate brings nothing at all. [[Applause]] The only thing he's contributing is crispacy, the only thing he's contributing is the exhaustion of citizenship he's listening to the particular spokesperson in this case of the People's Party. Because what there is is one thing. And it's just that the vaccine isn't against demagogy, Mr. Tellado -- I've told you before -- nor against that set populism that you practice continuously. [[Applause]] With regard to the fall of GDP, Counsellor, it is indeed smaller. But you have to give the keys why you're smaller. It is also less the weight that tourism has in the German GDP. And it's also less, of course, due to the good behaviour of exports, in this case of the car, or the primary sector in this case, indeed. But it's also less because of the scarce demographic dynamism in Galicia, and you know it. In the last 20 years Galicia has the same population. From 2000 to 2020 alone and exclusively increased 127 inhabitants, compared to the 7 million that has advanced in the state as a whole. So that's an element that also justifies the lowest drop in GDP, as you well know. As far as industrial policy is concerned, you have just mentioned several companies that are, in fact, in an agonistic situation. You shift the absolute responsibility to the state as if the Government of the United States had no competence in industrial policy -- which it has, and also exclusive --. You follow the single industrial policy and only those that you cite. But I'm going to quote you the industrial policy of the Galician Union in recent years, from 2008 to 2019. In 2008 there were 214,000 industrial jobs and in 2019 there were exactly 179,400. So there's less busy in the industrial sector. But if we talk about companies in the industrial sector, in that period it went from 15,089 to 12,347 companies. And if we only measured from 2018 to 2019, exactly 388 industrial companies have been lost in this country. So industrial policy is something else. And in this case we agree that it is a very fundamental problem in certain regions, in certain areas. In the relocation, in this case of Siemens-Gamesa, Mr. Tellado shifted responsibility to the Government of Madrid, indeed, as if the Government of Madrid were expelling companies and companies did not have sufficient economic motivations to relocate -- or even from a labour point of view --. But, well, the industrial reality is that you in 2015 announced a plan that, if I'm not mistaken, was called Industry 4.0, which, you think, aspired to two fundamental objectives: reaching 20% of GDP -- obviously not being met in a clear way -- and creating 50,000 jobs. And, Counsellor, I just gave you the data: 214,000 industrial jobs in 2008 and 174.00 in 2019. I mean, not only didn't get industrial jobs, but we lost it at a fast pace. [[Applause]] And this has to do with, as you know, the size of the productive tissue we have in Galicia. That's why self-sufficient people and pemmes are absolutely essential. And we have to contribute more resources since the Board's budget to reactivating this sector. In Galicia only 3.4 percent of companies have ten or more employees. And this is the real problem we have in this country. In other words, we depend solely on small businesses and the self-employed sector as regards job creation. And in this context, in a crisis situation, they are the most vulnerable. That's why we appeal to the Galician Union for a much more intense, much more agile reactivation plan. By the way, with regard to the autonomous cheque, the self-reported cheque you have put, do you know how many applications you have had throughout the year 2020?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u64	He had 177, Counselor. So it's good to shift responsibility to Madrid in health care, it's good to shift responsibility in the economic field to the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u65	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u66	...but you have skills, you have self-government, and therefore all we ask of you is to exercise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u68	And they also have budget. So you spend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u69	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u70	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, Galicia was already undergoing a profound industrial crisis before the coward. During these months you wanted nothing to do with any of the many problems that afflict our country. You are missing from the Alcoa crisis, say what you say, you are missing from the Bridges and Meirama crisis, the Siemens-Gamesa crisis, the Navantia crisis, the Noa Madera crisis, the Xeal crisis, the Madeira Churches, Thenaissia, the Vulcano crisis, and the Barreras... the Galician industry disappears in the same way as it disappeared from the label of its department. [[Applause]] And you pretend to be on the side of the workers and the workers in all these conflicts when in reality the only common denominator of all of them is that, without the existence of their department, the outcomes would be identical. You do well to say, "Tell me what you're assuming and I'll tell you what you're missing." You rule from back to back to people, completely turned to the interests of big companies, who today are asking for the same thing as in the previous crisis, and which in the previous, in the previous and previous: deregulation, free bar of public resources and not to disturb. And that's what they're doing. That's exactly what the Government of the Union is doing through the Law for Administrative Agileization and Economic Reactivation, more known as the Law of Predation, as well as the latest proposal that they have just called "Polo for the transformation of Galicia." The selected ones again are the largest. In the meantime -- I repeat -- the small ones disappear. The latest data on creditor tenders already indicate that there is an increase in express tenders, winding-up tenders -- especially in the hospitality and small trade sectors --. It's a business fabric that can't get out of the crisis based on projects, they don't have the ability today to turn around and much less to be indebted. He needs direct help to survive. And don't be mistaken. Their impact on the economy is brutal. Many of these sectors depend on jobs, large numbers of local and nearby suppliers, and the vast majority of the bottoms of our cities and villages. We can't let the pandemic take them forward. First, the urgent one, then the important one. First, rescue; then, reactivate. First, direct assistance to the most affected and vulnerable sectors; then, country strategy to promote a new, more solid economic model, more environmentally sustainable and more socially cohesiond. Do you want agreements in this Parliament? We propose a number of very specific: country strategy in the face of the already announced cuts; country strategy to assume the crisis bill with progressive criteria -- making it contribute more to those who have -- ; country strategy to recover what we should never sell -- and much less evil -- like the public bank, yes, or a public energy company; country strategy to recover industry activities we should never give up -- and in other countries they have managed to promote and value by generating important levels of wealth -- such as civil naval construction; country strategy also so that our energy resources generate jobs, knowledge and wealth in our country. Don't say again that you are on the side of the workers and the workers, on the side of the self-employed, the lodgers and small merchants, because it's an outrageous lie. Actually, you're where you've always been. Your plan for Galicia is to sell it at the price of balance. In each crisis you give us a little bit. Each crisis means for you the opportunity to give business opportunities to the big, unconditional, unreturned company, without the country as a society earns nothing. You're decapitalizing the country by causing the next crisis -- because there'll be more -- taking us no more reinforced or more resilient -- as they like to say now -- but more vulnerable. And we are, indeed, also where we have always been: betting on models of valorization of the country to increase and enrich the collective heritage of all the Greeks and the Greeks, as always. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u71	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u72	Mr. Fernández Alfonso, of course we are on the side of the workers. And while we're on the workers' side, do you know where you are? They're on the side of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applause]] Look, Counselor, asking for cooperation with this opposition is like asking for bullies. In the past legislation, 13 laws we have dealt with in this House have not supported one, 13 or one! As far as we're concerned, as far as legislation is concerned, in seven bills -- including budgets and the accompanying law -- all of them were against it. And then they say they tend their hands. It will be to strike the Government; for, to collaborate with the Government, never! That's the reality. You come here -- some -- to defend Galicia's independent republic -- which is like Ikea's, so independent that they support the most centralist government in Spain's history for the last few decades -- and others come here to defend Pedro Sánchez. So simple! But the truth is, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that the Greeks pay our wages to defend Galician interests. And this opposition is made up of coffee litulians -- reality commentators, such as the Government of Spain --. They're watching them come. They sit on the couch to criticize everything. And what do they do from where you rule? Nothing! Nothing! That's the reality. Mr. Francisco Rivera, you speak of industrial employment as if the decisions of the Government of Spain did not affect the industrial employment of Alcoa, or the industrial employment of the Bridges or Meirama. That's the reality. They didn't want to talk about next generation funds. It's a shame we leave this session without you supporting Galicia's defense in managing these funds. Because you are not defending Galician interests, nor the PSdeG -- whose only mission in this Parliament is to defend the Government of Spain -- nor the BNG -- which is too cowardly to attack socialist government by endangering the seats they share with socialists in deputies and municipalities --. That's the reality of the Galician Nationalist Block! [[Applause]] That's their reality! Every time the European funds were dealt with in this House, the BNG sought excuses not to defend a single position in the Galician Parliament. I understand that they cannot go to Barcelona by the hand of Junqueras and Otegui after supporting something with the Popular Party here in Galicia. O you who defend! Look, we have a PSOE here in Galicia more concerned about the shadows of Mr. Beaster's movement in brooms than about solving the problems of the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] That's the reality of this PSdEG-PSOE: applauding and looking back through the mirror in case of Beaster. That's the sad reality that sums up the Socialist Party's reality here in Galicia. And Galicia confronts the fight against two pandemics, against the pandemic resulting from the coward 19 and the attack by Pedro Sánchez on Galicia. Because since the Socialists arrived at Moncloa they took advantage of each and every opportunity they had to attack Galicia. They attacked Galicia with the distribution of the first React-EU funds -- said counsellor -- where we got harmed. They attacked Galicia with the distribution of vaccines -- they like it or they don't like it -- where we get hurt. They attacked Galicia with the default of VAT debts for transfers for good fiscal performance. They attacked Galicia with the lowest budget in Spain's history for the last fifteen years -- and you applauded --. They attacked Galicia in charge of a new ship to the Navantia shipyards in Cadiz and denied what the Ferrol creek needed. They attacked Galicia by letting Siemens-Gamesa leave the Somozas and all Spain, and looking to the other side -- where is the labor authority of this country that has to solve that ERE, that ERE that affects... -- no, don't signal for it! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira is interrupted by a gesture of an MP.]] The ERE must resolve the Ministry of Labour because it affects productive centres of different autonomous communities. And so there's a problem: either they don't know it and they're uninformed or they're just trying to fool the whole of society. [[Murmurs.]] They attacked Galicia by laughing at the electro-intensive industries, abandoning them to their luck with an electro-intensive consumer status that doesn't solve their problems. Attack Galicia closing The Bridges and closing Meirama. And they attacked Galicia with that attempt to close all the industries located in maritime-terrestrial domain through the Climate Change Act. The list is endless. The socialist government is ending with the present and future of the Greek economy, and you -- some -- look to the other side or -- others -- applaud. And that's the reality of this opposition. But, ladies, of course we have to work together, they like it or they don't like it. Elections are over. We have to work together to get out of this crisis faster and stronger. Make it clear that divided we are more vulnerable. But with you or without you we'll get Galicia out of the crisis. We'll keep going. Galicia will go ahead with you or without you, with you remanded in favor or with you remanded against. And you know why I say that? Because we've done it, because we've done it in the crisis of the last few years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u74	...that we also did without you. If you haven't learned the lessons from that crisis, you're certainly doomed to be on that bench for a long time, at the opposition bench, at the opposition bench in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The second vice president's doubling shift and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate my thanks for the speeches made by the various parliamentary groups. It is true that we are going through a time of great difficulties, and I therefore believe that the unquestionable priority for this government right now is to save lives. On that stage, at the same time, we must try to accompany families, pemmes and self-governing, the worst sectors are going through, precisely to provide an answer from the point of view of their needs in the economic context. That balance is difficult to conjugate, but it's really what's calling us, and that's what the Greeks and the Greeks are asking us to do. And I honestly think we're trying to give that answer with concrete measures within the reactivation plan and within the rescue plan, and I'm sure there's room for improvement and there's a response capacity. But what doesn't seem reasonable is trying to move in this House that everything the government does is wrong. That doesn't seem reasonable. We, Mr Rivera, are not disposing of responsibilities to the Government of Spain. What we are asking the Government of Spain is that in this context of such difficulty it simply gives an answer as other countries are giving it in the same conditions and their respective economies. And, therefore, it seems reasonable that even from your own parliamentary group they help that position of Galicia and the position of the Galician Union so that you try to give that answer to the needs that we have at this time by the Government, and also to the very needs that we have on the part of the deputies and the municipalities, which, in the same way as the Galician Union is getting involved, it seems reasonable that they also transfer that response, which we simply try to respond to that unique objective, which we have to give answers to the citizens. You move me, Mr Rivera, the situation from the point of view of industrial employment data. He knows perfectly well that in the latest data from the fourth quarter active population survey in 2020, Galicia has an occupation in the industrial sector with more than two points above what the rest of Spain has. Something we'll be doing right, and something will be doing right, logically, the industrial sector. The curious thing is that you worry about industrial occupation and you don't help us move that same concern to your party in Madrid when you try to defend jobs in the bridges, in Meirama, in Somozas or in Navantia. It seems reasonable that the Socialist Party of Galicia also joins in defending the interests of the Greek workers and not simply defending their party in Madrid. The same is true of Mr Fernández's intervention. I'd ask the Galician Nationalist Block to return to real Galicia, not to its Galicia. Because surely there you will follow in a speech that is totally obsolete, simply trying to justify your policy of self-determination and hiding your government pact with the Socialist Party in Madrid, in the deputies and the municipalities. It's just that this is the reality. So, of course, when we want to talk about specific things, they don't answer. I spoke to them clearly: the Galego Nationalist Block wagered by the production of frigates in Navantia? You're just talking about civil construction, curious! Hey, but if we have the empty steps and you talk to me about civil construction! But where is your country strategy, what country do you live in? You don't want to talk about the bridge power station. Why do they not explicitly support the position of the Galician Board so that the production of biofuels can be maintained in the Bridges? Why? I therefore sincerely believe that the Galician Nationalist Block has no legitimacy to speak of industrial policy in Galicia, no legitimacy! You don't have any kind of legitimacy to talk about the workers' rights, none! You're just trying to transfer a policy -- I insist -- of self-determination that won't give Galicia answers. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u77	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u78	I know they don't like it, but the bridge workers are still waiting for their support. The Navantia workers are still waiting for their support. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u79	Mr. Rivas, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u80	All right, follow you around, which will surely respond to your interests but in no case will they be giving a useful answer to the workers in Galicia. [[Applause]] As I said, since the Galician Union we will continue to develop the Reactivation Plan, a plan that is logically accompanied -- and adapted, by the needs of the context, through this rescue plan -- with 160 million euros that we will transfer in 90 days to grant direct aid to these sectors, to self-employed and micro-enterprises linked to the most affected sectors. And, of course, we will also continue to work with the trade sector, with which we will continue to promote new measures that contribute to its reactivation. Finally, we are moving concrete support, concrete direct assistance and, above all, we are also trying to transfer confidence to the business fabric. There is a law of economic reactivation that is simply key to Galicia, keeping all guarantees from an environmental, cultural, and heritage point of view linked to the rural environment, can simply be more agile and more competitive in the processing of business projects -- eliminating unnecessary overlaps, eliminating duplication between different departments and, above all, facilitating the capture and execution of projects --. I'd like to, honestly, if that's not so, to prove it. You guys throw a slogan and they seem to be right. No, look, businessmen are asking for greater administrative agility, and in the Reactivation Act there is no single elimination of requirements and guarantees from an environmental point of view, from an urban or heritage point of view. And so you'll have to choose whether you're investing in Galicia or simply using your ideology. [[Applause]] Projects, ladies and gentlemen, which will contribute to the transformation of our productive fabric must be linked to digitization, to the sustainability of our economy. And then, of course, European funds will be an opportunity. We have an opportunity to link our indigenous resources, such as wood; to link all processes linked to the management of agricultural waste, such as purins, but also other types of waste, such as plastics, such as sanitary waste or textile waste itself, so that there really is a green transition in Galicia and there is a digital transition. We are convinced that it is a country project that will promote greater social and territorial cohesion in Galicia, and, above all, that it will allow the transformation of our industry -- also with a great presence in rural areas and also with an impact not only on large companies, but also on small and medium-sized enterprises and self-government --. And that's why we're going to promote these public-private collaboration projects, which are the ones that can generate jobs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic forces us all to work in the most immediate emergencies but with the look set over the next few years and also on the horizon of recovery itself, a recovery to seek the well-being of the Greeks and above all a recovery which means not only taking measures in Galicia but also defending from Galicia and also in Madrid the jobs that are currently awaiting a thread. So there's a co-responsibility and we have to combine those desires, we have to add those efforts, in order to achieve those challenges. As we know how to reach agreements and reach consensus, we can of course talk about a fair transition -- right now is what citizens are asking us to do -- and that social and economic recovery reaches the whole productive fabric. So today -- if I may -- I would like to conclude by calling for coordination and cooperation between all administrations and among all the political forces that make up this Parliament so that Galicia can get to full recovery as soon as possible and, above all, so that we can provide a useful response to the needs of citizens and the needs of the productive sectors as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u81	Thank you very much, Vice President. We suspended the session until 6:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u82	We resume the session with the third item on the agenda, motions. Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the impulse by the Government of Greece of a new model of long-term care that addresses the attention to dependence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u83	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u84	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u85	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today, from BNG, we present this motion on the model of care, especially of attention to dependency. It is a proposal that will be geared, among other issues, and first of all, to ensure the social rights of dependent people, of course, but also to end the tremendous business in which the right to a dignified old age in Galicia has become and with the implication that the Galician Union has with the companies and private entities that manage most of these services, particularly with the main group that operates in our country, which is DomusVi. This conference of the Galician Union with this business group has become more visible, if it matches, with the recent vaccination of the delegated advisor to DomusVi and his brother, skipping absolutely, and indecently, the vaccination protocol. Let me tell you that the BNG seems so bad to us that the CEO of this group, the entrepreneur, takes it to the vaccination lists as if the Galician Union would allow it and even applauds it. These days we came and heard -- and we could also read -- in multiple media outlets that the president of the board and the social policy advisor publicly gave that "method" of the lady's delegation advisor and her brother in the vaccination lists. And besides, they told us, both the president of the board and the social policy advisor, that nothing will be investigated, because "Why?"right? So we want to know in this country how an entrepreneur ends up on a vaccination list in the middle of a global pandemic without supposed to -- if we believe the story of the Galician Union -- the Government doesn't know anything? And, to be sure, it also says -- yesterday itself -- that the board can't prove whether there was any irregularities or not because it's an activity of a private company. And one question: by listening to and reading certain things, who decides in this country who is vaccinated and who is not, with what order and with what priority?, decides a group like DomusVi, any private company, or decides the Health Council? Because, to be the activity of a private company, it's also very curious that we pay them all the vaccine, including the payroll of the person who supplied it to them. What are you telling the Greeks and the Greeks, the whole society of this country, the Galician Union? That, depending on who you are, you go first. If you lead a multinational of residences -- like this DomusVi group -- there is no health criterion, no order or protocol. But if you're called Maria Garcia and you work at the health center of -- what do I know? - From Cuspedrins downstairs, you wait. It's indecent, it's absolutely indecent, it has no other adjective, it's just indecent. It's indecent in the frame and in a context -- because things are good contextualizing them -- in which eight out of ten senior residential squares in our country are private. And of them, of which 80% of private squares, 20% belong or are managed by this DomusVi group -- to be exact, 4,737 residential squares in 30 centers --. DomusVi is the main company that manages senior residences, not only in Galicia but in the Spanish state as a whole. Eight out of ten residential squares are private, but six out of ten day centers are private in our country. And they are, in addition, absent in most of the Greek territory. That's what you've got before, before, before, before, about, profit and business. And it only settles if it's profitable. This is the exclusion of an important part of the population of this country from services such as residences or day centers that a fifth of the older 74 years live in places where residences or day centers are either null or very poor. And this is data from the Galician Economic Forum. Other essential services for dependency care, such as teleassistion, are directly shining by their absence in our country. Teleassisence in Galicia, both basic and advanced, reaches only 8,373 people, in a country where there are more than 65,200 with a degree of recognized dependence and 122,731 homes formed by people over 65 years old who live alone. One of the countries, as is our case, as is the case with Galicia, with one of the highest levels of aging across Europe, cannot uphold the right to a decent old age on that level of privatization and precarious public services. And that's where we want to focus today from the BNG with this motion: in the design of public policies aimed at setting up a new model of long-term care inserted into the recommendations of the World Health Organization, an integral model that does not pick up each of the services differently, as stagnant compartments, but rather conceives them as a whole and that puts people's lives at the center of life, life in good health, a model that is public, close and, most importantly, that guarantees and allows people to remain as long as possible in their homes -- but not as a rhetorical resource, but as a material reality -- a model that supports and accompanies people throughout the different vital stages. We think that a person who is 65 years old -- for taking an age of about a reference -- according to statistics -- and hopefully those are over -- is left for two decades of life. To ensure that support and support for people throughout the various vital stages -- also when we consider that people are larger there are different stages -- it is necessary to deploy a set of services that goes far beyond the institutionalized model, and that has to be spread at different levels. This is a model that prevents dependence and, above all, that makes the set of the corresponding society of care. Because when the care organization system is not publicly, explicitly and comprehensively addressed, what we have to ask ourselves is who is responsible for meeting those needs. Because, just like in the economy and in the market, in care there is no invisible hand or magic veins. It's inertia -- says the feminist movement for years --, the inertia of the order of genre, which comes into operation when the expectation is that these needs of care and care for dependents are satisfied within their own families by themselves, within the family. In other words, in the absence of public policies and services, it's the women who practically take on this whole work, an informal job, unremunerated most of the time, unrecognizable, even despised on many occasions. And it has to be said that it's not up to women to assume it naturally, it's not up to them, or it's not up to us to take care of it exclusively. Half of humanity, which are men -- also here in Galicia -- is time for them to assume their share of responsibility in the reproduction of society itself. [[Applause]] That's why we propose today from the BNG four points that I will synthesize into three central elements. The first one is to strengthen the Home Help Service, as a key to the vaulting of that system of social organization of care, by expanding the funding of the Board, but also the types of care and hours that are effectively provided in the service, and by deploying a government inspection plan to ensure the fulfilment of workers' labour and wages rights -- as it says in a synthetic way, it's about taking care of those who care for us --. Secondly, planning the extension -- but real and effective -- of teleassistation as a resource and as a fundamental right with a concrete, measurable, tangible goal -- not as a declaration of intent -- which is progressively reaching the whole of people over 65 who live alone in our country -- 122,700, to be exact --. And thirdly -- points 3 and 4 -- expand the network of day centers and public residences, not the business of groups like DomusVi but the network of public centers and residences, and prioritize the municipalities and districts that do not currently count on that service. But that, yes, you have to design and expand a new residential model that goes beyond the current model -- which dates back to 1996, as you know -- with more staff of direct attention, less size to ensure better attention, more quality and more staff, more integration into the socio-health environment of your own centers and, above all, also with greater participation of both users and family members in the management and decision-making bodies of these homes and day-to-day centers. In short -- and with this ending --, a more humane care model and, above all, more public. Never again, never again, truly, the right to a dignified old age and personal autonomy is a business! Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u87	Thank you, President. We can't talk about a new residential model without talking about the care of people in an integral and coordinated way -- and about dependent people --. But we can't talk about this context either without changing the chip. We have to change the concept we have of older people. We must leave behind the childishness that is made of them on occasion, even from the institution itself. Older people have to be heard. A person aged 65 or over has a lot to contribute to society and, above all, he has a lot to think about, first of all, when we talk about his immediate future. We need to be aware that we are talking about a new decontextualized residential model of the rest of the services and resources that exist for older people cannot work, so we have to get out of here in order to optimize care in the most fair and immediate way. And I put a simile that has nothing to do with it, but it's for us to see that sometimes the problem doesn't let us see the solution itself. Years ago he won a method to prevent school harassment. He left behind the unique action on the problem -- that is, the aggressor-victim intervention -- and moved on to act on the rest of the community, directly involving the rest of the observers, the people who were watching. And one very important thing has been achieved: prevention itself. In the same line we must act here and not just focus on residences, but open ourselves to the rest of the resources to prevent and extend as much time as possible before the institutionalization of older and dependent people. Galicia is one of the oldest autonomous communities in the country, and most older people indicate that they prefer to live in their homes, that they don't want to go to a residence. This is reality and towards it we have to work, on a horizon that allows maximum autonomy for as long as possible. A few weeks ago I was 38 years old and felt the same way I was 37, and that's also going to happen when I was 65, with the difference that I'm going to have more experiences, just. We must not disabling a whole part of the population because they are at a certain age, we must listen to them and make them part of the decisions we have to make about their own future, about their care. The advisor himself assured a few days ago that the new model of older residences will be participatory, consensive and inclusive, taking advantage of the potentialities of technology, socio-health coordination and structural and architectural improvements in centers. First, once again, we're talking about the new residence model and not a new care model that coordinates and reformulates the rest of the services that make many older people live in their homes -- that this has to be the goal --. Second, where is the human part of all this? Why don't we talk about how to humanize care to improve the quality of life of older people and maximize their autonomy and cognitive abilities? Third, it's not integrating when the rest of the representatives, for example, we're not invited to participate, or even the Xerontology and Hieritary Society, or the representatives of the workers' associations in the sector, among others. In Ourense province, the average age of citizenship is more than 50 because of the lack of talent motivated by the lack of opportunities for a well-prepared generation. Adapting the supply to labour demand is a pending task for this Government to establish population and provide resources for this economic and labour return that the care sector needs. This is another problem that needs to be tackled now, but today we are immersed in the center of an unprecedented pandemic. It is important to focus attention on how to articulate management to save lives in residential care centers. In Galicia, from the Socialist Group, we have always insisted on the need for a positive evacuation plan, all the positive ones without exception, with the greatest immediateness possible. And why? Because it is recommended by the Xerontology and Hieracy Society itself or the CSIC's own report on the impact of the cod on residences -- among others --. And because when an older person enters a residence, he has to sign a document by law declaring that he has no infectious contagious disease, which is completely logical since it is a matter of public health. In this case, it was systematically disregarded when positive centers were maintained in the same centers as negative ones, making it impossible to optimize the prevention of virus expansion and massive infections in these centers. For this reason, existing in Galicia, in particular, intermediate integrated residences, we once again request an immediate evacuation protocol of all positive ones without exception to these intermediate residences -- that for that are -- and to hospitals where appropriate. Once we get out of the pandemic, the new model has to be careful, not just residential. Residences have to be the last resource -- that's yes, with all guarantees, preferably public and based on a more familiar model or homelike, small groups, housing-like structure, etc. --. But above all, we have to listen to the elders to know how we can humanize the context to the fullest extent. The concept of older people has to change. From politics we have to do the pedagogy to change the chip that exists in relation to this vital stage. A person of 65, of 70, etc., of any age, is a person who has very much to contribute to society. We must flee from a model that sews or infantilizes older people, so it's essential to listen to what they want, to give them a voice at that time. It is time to bet on policies such as the state government's dependency shock plan to deal with years of dependency cuts, and essentially involve all the resources and care we have, for example, the ones I will explain below. Starting with the home help service, it's impossible to speak of a model of care in Galicia, a new model, without the Government of Greece increasing its hourly contribution to alleviate municipal budgets. We need to review the working conditions of home aid assistants and service coordinators themselves, introduce the figure of new professional profiles to optimize the follow-up and rehabilitation of service users, as well as social pedagogy as to the concept of the FAS, in which we have the eternal confusion between specialized care and cleaning function -- which is really what do home help assistants --. [[Applause]] Something very important is the drive of day centers and the figure of the personal assistant, which is a symbol of the autonomy of older people and dependent people. And a very important resource is care delivery in the family environment. At the time it was one of the pillars that supported the so-called Dependency Law. However, this is where much of the PP cuts were concentrated -- especially as a result of the People's Party's lethal weapon against dependence, that actual 2012 decree --. In addition to the cuts, one of the fundamental problems was the feminization of the figure of non-professional care, which would have to be redefined to promote equality in care. Care needs to be professionalized and supervised in the family environment, with regular and quality training, as well as with regular and systematic supervision. Family breathing programs need to be improved -- a resource that would be vital, in addition, in order to optimize greater territorial rebalancing -- based on improved conditions for non-professional caregivers. How is it possible today that of the few books left in Galicia are reporting in some cases -- parents and mothers -- that on the 9th of this month they have not yet received help to care for their dependent children? How possible! In unwanted loneliness -- something very important -- it would be important to promote a real plan managed in collaboration with the municipal area and providing the municipalities themselves with economic resources for this. This plan should be coordinated through multidisciplinary teams that share information and optimize results towards accident prevention and mental health deterioration. And, of course, of course!, within this model of care must be delayed the institutionalization of people themselves. The new residential model must be focused on people, with a small unit of cohabitation most similar to a home and adapting the services and activities of the centre to the very diversity that exists among the residents themselves. We need to take into account physical abilities, but also cognitive abilities; for example, the fact of painting or doing puzzles can be entertaining or beneficial to one person and totally frustrating to another. The inspection teams need to be strengthened to ensure an optimal follow-up of all centres, whether public or private, and so that it will not happen again what the report of the Board of Auditors warned: that significant drop in the number of scheduled centres, which, for example, in 2010 was 100 % and in 2016, 39 %. We need to concentrate residence data, monitor, for the implementation of a unified early warning and monitoring system, and thus avoid the lack of transparency or hypothetical data manipulation. We're asking for data on contagion and deaths per centre now! [[Applause]] And, of course, this model must be the fruit of social dialogue. The citizenship I represent should be as worthy as any member of the People's Party may represent. It's hard to understand why the German Government excludes the rest of the parties on a central theme like this. The new care model for older and dependent people is possible with political will and increased resources. The state itself is contributing -- it's going to bring this year -- 623 million to reverse the dependency cuts. But the Autonomous Community itself must also put resources on the table. We make it possible with great agreement so that the fact of having an age doesn't turn people's lives off. And, please, evacuate all the positives of senior residences. They explain, by decency, the vaccines such as that of DomusVi's CEO, put together a residence integrated by the province and stop placing positions on the Board of the Port of Ferrol the advisor, who has enough to focus on this topic in the middle of a pandemic. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u88	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me play. Let the Socialist Party, the representative of the Socialist Party, come here today to talk about board of directors, after appointing this same week what was the voice of his -- today -- a partner of government -- a spokesman in this House -- and putting him on the Navantian Council, after what we heard in this House for four years of turning doors, you have to throw a couple of apples!, you have to put a couple of apples like that voice in that chair for four years! Let's throw them out! [[Applause]] It seems the opposition groups had a huge interest in talking about vaccination today. We had no drawback. I am surprised that the initiatives on this subject have been withdrawn. I don't know why. We have no drawback in explaining what vaccination criteria are. In fact, the leaders of the Galician Union came here to explain what the vaccination criteria were. And we all know from that point on that point that it is each of those responsible bodies and companies that are responsible for drawing up the corresponding lists for that vaccination -- by the way, following the guidelines of the national vaccination strategy --. It seems that this strategy applies here or does not apply depending on whether the representatives are right or wrong, but I don't know... of course there are people who have been overlimited! Well, they'll have to answer in their respective areas, but they won't have to do so to the Government of Galicia. Among other things... Man, I don't know! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Imagine that at some center we are given a list in which unions are released from some union related to some group in this House. See if it's going to be the government's responsibility too! Man, I don't think so. I think we should be prudent and also a little fair and a little less demagogic. They say, "We pay them between all the vaccines." Like everyone else! Or is there anyone in this country who is vaccinated without us paying him the vaccine among all? Let's raise the level a little! [[Murmurs.]] If I may, I think we are facing a motion today that perfectly defines the model of dialogue of Greek nationalism and, after listening also to the representative of the Socialist Party of Galicia, the model of dialogue on the left of this country. The Union has tended its hand to develop a new model of integral care for adults and dependents. A committee was set up in Parliament in which, among other things, it was also proposed to be consensual. And the answer to the BNG and also the PSdEG is to present the conclusions before even starting the dialogue. It's certainly a curious way. Mrs Ortega said, "We are not invited to participate in the model development." Mrs Ortega, we are in the process of drawing up the reactivation committee's statement. It's not like I'm invited, it's like you're part of it! I mean, it's your duty to make those contributions. I'm recommending that you do it, because that's where professionals, public officials, associations, companies, family members have passed... a social welfare advisory committee has been set up by the Galician board representing all the agents involved, who has already held several working meetings. In his 15-day interrogation, the BNG said it was essential to consult the Galician Social Welfare Council. Today they present conclusions. They may no longer need to hear what this advice says. The new General Directorate for Integral Sociosanitary Care has even been created to address this new care model. But BNG doesn't have to listen to anyone. You already have the answers. Because BNG already has a model. In fact, it's like the perfection achieved by the BNG that doesn't have a model, it has two: it has the model that permanently demands the Board and the model that they then practice where they rule. Because, Mrs. Rodil, honestly, he comes here and we hear him talk about business, what we work for companies, what they're dehumanized about... but I ask him: have you turned to the public any of these services that are providing the administrations where you rule? Has Suplusa recovered for the public that management it has today derived from groups like Clece -- Florentino Pérez --? What you said about Florentine Pérez here, or religious orders as Messengers for Peace! But why is Lugo good and if he does it to Join is bad? Those home help services that you claim, with that dignity and so on, will you recover management for the public in your municipalities? Because you don't know one. By the way, there's a controversy in the Vigo Town Hall -- not encouraged by the People's Party -- because the best-valued company to lend the SAF in Vigo, in the council of the PSdeG leader's uncle in the House, you know what it was? The best rated company was DomusVi. It's hard to understand that if you manage with this ease this double rod of measurement, this permanent hypocrisy. We disagreed with the catastrophic vision of BNG. We believe that there is a model of Greek attention that has given a great service to the Greeks and the Greeks. It needs to be reformed, of course, by greatly enhancing what was being done right and correcting the evases that were agromated as a result of a global health alert -- which sometimes seems to be forgotten -- a global health alert! An alert which, by the way, the Greek social protection system has surpassed with better notice than most of the social systems around us. It's data, but it's not data from the Galician People's Party or the Galician Union, it's official data from the Ministry, which facilitates them; it's data that was provided in this House. By the way, they also officially asked the Ministry. We're still waiting for you to send them back to this House to see if you've already assumed it, once you've seen it black on white. But speaking here as Mrs Ortega did today: "It's just that you have to get all the contagions out of the residences for intermediate residences..."... Mrs Ortega, you don't want to participate, you don't listen. The experts came to the Commission and told him he was upset as a general criterion! They told him that each case had to be evaluated and that what was needed was to draw up evacuation protocols, but not evacuate all the infected people because it could precisely be counterproductive. And say no! [[Mr. Ortega Otero: No.]] Say no! I'm really asking you to review it, it's asking you to review it! We believe that we should make an assessment of the weighted Greek social system and know where we came from to know where we are: residences, 44%, more public residences than in 2009. Day centers, 3,900 squares versus 980 in 2009. We are national leaders in the home help service, and in teleassisted we have 6,593 users, 204 already geolocalized, and we have a forecast to incorporate 3,000 more users a year. Mrs. Ortega said we had to start working. No, no, some of us have been working on time, which I don't know is what others are doing. They ask for plans, impulses to progressively improve these services. I, with this data that I just gave you, honestly, I say to you, can you deny the progressive improvement? Because I think it's undeniable, it's unquestionable, and I think it's irrefutable. You ask for more resources for SADs, for teleassistation, for living centers, for residences... us too, but it doesn't seem fair that the Board exclusively assumes the greatest need for resources, nor does it seem logical that BNG decides how they should be distributed. We think we have to make sensible planning. You propose, by the way, that the number of public day centres be doubled. There's 92 in Galicia. You want to do another 92. What are they? 90 million or 100 million in construction, plus about 8 million euros a year. Anyway, it's a really curious thing. The case is that you proposed the 27 day centers project this year. The Socialist Party, 7. They all support each other. Do you know how many match between 7 and 27? Match one. But what interests do you defend? But they're written, Mrs. Ortega! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't deny me what's written and what you register! I ask you to have some logical debate, really. We agree on the basics: personalized attention, proximity to the environment, more and better services. We agree, but the question we have to ask is, how do we finance and who takes up this funding? The truth is that you demand different solutions from the Board, all of which are going through exponentially and immediately increasing public investment in dependence. Meanwhile, the Government of Spain has already announced that it will end the legislation without fulfilling the contribution of 50%. Don't look at me like that, that I didn't tell you, that your vice president said it. At best you've already warned that you're going to reach 34% of your contribution, which is fake, because in addition to that, it would be 34% today, but obviously they're still increasing the costs. I, of course, ask you: if you increase SAD's expenses, staff ratios, build new centers, want to remove users' co-workers, reduce the city hall's contribution and continue to fail to meet the state contribution, that's who pays it? Ah, Junta! Hey, you've got a solution for everything! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I say, how do we pay it?, with the lower budget in investments in fifteen years of the Government, with 200 million VAT not returning us?, with 170 million incentives to meet the goal that they don't give us?, with 100 million less euros in employment policies? Or with €36.3 million less in the hedge fund? But a little bit of wisdom and a little less face! I really tell you, yours really reminds me of a famous sports journalist in this country who said a phrase that perfectly defines them: "Not a bad word, not a good deed." To stay well they are every day, but to put the money, not for that. And yet you, from your seat, say, "No, no, the joint; put it together." [[Murmurs.]] But you, who so boasts, who so presumes of the law, don't remember that you have to put on the 50%? That Together is putting 75%, Mrs. Ortega!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u91	...or 75 %, where is the 50%? And the excuse is it's Rajoy's fault. I'll give you a reminder...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u92	Let's take it easy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u93	...--I say so because it's good--: a drop in employees' salaries, 5%; retirement age increased to 67; pension freezing; lowering the cost of dismissal; a job reform, health payrolls... that wasn't Rajoy, who was Mr. Zapatero! It's just that you have to have a tough face to break a country and then come here and ask for responsibilities to those who have the responsibility to reflect it. It's all right, man! It's all right!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u95	I'm done. I'm done, president. By the way, when you talk about creating day centers squares that you're talking about, and so on, I tell you that I think the dialogue should happen because you talked to the sector as well. I don't know... it seems to me that they didn't have a conversation with them and that they should talk before they tabled amendments that turned out to be an absolute disincentive. They're invited to the dialogue. Listen, talk and maybe we'll make some arrangements.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u96	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Time's up. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u97	It's better if you're going to talk to us, eh! That's a lot worse! [[Laughter]] If you don't... I don't know... One thing that is curious to me: if we present initiatives, bad, because you are presenting initiatives! If you withdraw initiatives, evil, because you withdraw initiatives! No, Mr Pazos... whatever you're upset about is that BNG comes here and exercises one of our rights and also our duties as Members and Members and we make proposals. And in that regard, two questions. One, I think we've said it on several occasions, but it's never more repeated: there's no commission; there's no reactivation, there's no other kind of commission that's going to steal the obligation and the right of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group to present as many proposals as we please. The Reactivation Commission cannot be used as a sub-refugee to try to deny debates which are essential, which are necessary and which were already important before this pandemic appeared. [[Applause]] And in this regard, the BNG has a model before we listen to all the people who have passed through the Reactivation Commission, we read all the reports, including those that are missing, and we start working on the dictates of this Reactivation Commission. In fact, BNG has a model of care and a proposal for dependency care in this country and to guarantee the right of personal autonomy of people since the appearance of SARS-CoV-2, the pandemic, the shelter and what was needed, because here was a starting problem that was made visible from the fact that we saw the seams all after these, as they like to tell you "stress testing", that they have suffered the public services and in particular also the entire network of residences, day centers and everything you have to do with care and attention to the elderly and dependent people in our country. The BNG already had a model of care before, indeed. And if it was necessary and valid before the covid-19 pandemic, it's more necessary and more valid even now in the situation in which we find ourselves. You complain about what we propose, and you are absolutely frivolous. It has already done so, for example, in the Commission's debate during the processing of budgets. To every proposal I made from the BNG that it was necessary to expand the number of public day centres or the number of public residences -- among other things, because there are a fifth of people over 74 years of age in this country who have no access to those resources -- comes here frivolizing. So he said, "cement," and now he tells us that they want to double the squares. In fact, just like you didn't realize it, but rights cost money, and often infrastructure needs to be built to guarantee a fundamental right to have a day center or residence that guarantees first the professional and specialized care of those people, and, secondly, and not least, the right to reconcile their own caring families. And, in fact, that requires a public investment, a budgetary effort, if it costs money for all the Greeks and the Greeks. What we can't come here to frizz; we have to put concrete proposals on the table, and we say, let's mark a time frame. One, to present that plan here in the House. And two, to develop that planning, to implement it, to duplicate these squares, for example, of day centers, making special emphasis on the municipalities and districts of this country that do not have access to that fundamental right and to that public resource; what we propose is that this network be progressively guaranteed. I insist, it's a way to ensure that all people who need support, accompaniment and specialized dependency care have access to it. They, they, of course, also their families. And since we're talking about money -- which gets ugly, but since we're talking about money -- we're actually at a time -- we're going to talk about it in this plenary -- where there's going to be a significant amount of money, for example Europeans, that they also have to have an exit to develop, precisely, that new model of care. Here is going to be an important amount of extraordinary resources that will or should also arrive, at least if they were to defend themselves to be managed, these European funds, directly through the Galician Union, through the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks, and those European funds must also serve to build a new model of care. And secondly, it is also true, and the Board knows, that there is an agreement at the State-level Interterritorial Council on the entire system of personal autonomy and of attention to the dependence that will be placed on the table, among other matters, scarce resources, but more resources than it initially had, to ensure, for example, one of the issues that we have raised in this motion, which is the release of service or use of teleassistion, among other matters, because it is formulated to recognize it as a subjective right. It costs money to guarantee rights, but it's essential that we set priorities, and for the BNG it's clear, and it was already before the pandemic, but it's still clearer today: that an emergency and one of those priorities is, precisely, spreading a new model of care -- we insist -- integral, that it is focused on people, and above all that it guarantees the highest quality and best social well-being, individual, but also collective of older people in our country. We are going to propose a transaction to the Socialist Party with regard to the amendments they present to us, especially to incorporate the concept of co-responsibility into the book, which we find interesting. What we regret is that this offer of dialogue by the People's Party, Mr Pazos, today, with his intervention, was more than evident that it is pure facade, pure facade! You have a plan, you want to go alone with it, but the BNG will continue to bring this House, the Reactivation Commission, the Plenary and the Commission 5th each and every one of the proposals we consider necessary to guarantee the fundamental rights of the most vulnerable population in this country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the vaccination campaign for curfew-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u99	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u100	To formulate the motion, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u101	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we're going to talk about vaccination. It was supposed to be half-prepared, which was already being answered before we started talking about vaccination. We, as always speaking about this issue, want to stress, firstly, that vaccination is a collective success, a joint success, citizenship by patience and science, as always, by success of results, and administrations. I believe it is important to highlight the value of policy in the collaboration between administrations at different levels, from smaller populations to the European Union, which, with all the errors that can be pointed out, has shown that the system in which we live is a system that enables progress and allows certain progress. It's possible that everything is better, but it's a global success that we should all congratulate in a way, because it shows that we're able to do things pretty well, or at least within the reasonable margin; it's the fastest vaccine in history, probably -- we want -- the most efficient, and probably, given the situation, of the most important. We think the vaccination process is generally good. He said the chairman of the Committee on Bioethics of Spain, Federico de Montalvo, two weeks ago, that Spain has the most robust process or vaccination schedule in Europe. It's hard for us to shade to such an extent, but it's important. And in the face of some questions that are found to you -- certainly, when you want to teach negative things, it's fought against the Government of Spain and, if not, you want to assume -- we insist on collaboration and on the need to highlight this as a collective success; that's what some specialists said, but today Spain is one of the five or six countries in the world that has more vaccinated people; with which we have to admit -- despite some mistakes, which are certain that there is -- that it's important to highlight that things work when you collaborate, and this is important to avoid policies of borderism. [[Applause]] When we talk about frontalism policies, we too, on this initiative, on this motion, want to move a few issues. First of all, about staff. It has been said in the last few weeks that a lot of barbarities have been said, citing above all the number of vaccines that could be put on. But distinct barbarities, because I suppose there's some competition to see who says the greatest barbarity, and, put to say barbarities, it doesn't matter. I heard a very interesting one that Mr. Feijóo said, and was that Galicia could vaccinate the whole population in ten weeks. We're going to emphasize that we don't have to vaccinate the whole population, because minors under 16 don't get vaccinated -- I'm saying, if you don't know, maybe they're less accounts, too -- and we're going to suppose, we're going to calculate -- because we're reducing them under 16, that they don't get vaccinated -- that we're in Galicia 2,400,000 people -- counting on not having to vaccinate everyone, and the target is 70 percent, which is the flock unit -- But with that final goal of vaccinating everyone, it would be 2,400,000 people in ten weeks -- said 8-10, but we're going to be good to you, 10 weeks --. So let's do the calculation: 2,400,000 people, 10 weeks -- that is, 240.000 people per week -- even here I'm able to do it --. And 34,285 a day -- you just have to use a calculator -- We have 200 nurses, so this means 171 people per day per nurse. The ratios that the health advisor also uses mark 10 minutes per vaccinated person. We're going to be generous, we're just going to put on 5; because it's 14 hours of vaccination without stopping a nurse. So we're going to conclude, after the data, that you need staff to vaccinate! [[Applause]] It's done by the calculator, don't trust me -- unless they want to have a nurse 14 hours vaccinating --. Let's get him some more data. For example, we started to vaccinate in larger residences, in hospitals, where the population is concentrated -- don't worry, I fix them calculations, nothing happens; if it's a calculator, or an Excel, it's also worth-- and it's easier operationally; logically it's easier. Why? Because there's staff to help. In residences they have staff that collaborates in organizing, and the population is much more concentrated, so it's much simpler. It's going to be more complicated, at least in logical terms, when we need to vaccinate people who have large dependents in their homes, who will take more than 5 minutes because, at least, we have to go there; when the population is slowing down because they have to change appointments and they're going to be empty; when we have to ask people more than once in a while; or when contact with the citizenry is not so easy because we don't have the ease of contact immediately with everyone that the only one or the first thing to do is to get vaccinated. We're going to need more personal because we're going to have more logical, resoluble complexity -- of course, some soluble complexity -- but, in any case, we're going to need more personal complexity. We're thinking from our group that we have to hire more personnel, because we have that calculation that it's impossible to calculate with those accomplices -- even if it's to feel the most handsome of the class -- and also because there's going to be those complexities and because if it's possible to vaccinate faster -- that's -- it's going to be more personal. We're also going to do some calculation. We're going to double the nurses who are vaccinating so instead of -- making that quick calculation -- vaccinating 14 hours a day without stopping, they can work 7, which seems reasonable, with some rest even. So, from there on, what we're considering is 200 more nurses. Let's do another calculation. We don't propose to hire a week, a month, scarringly; we propose a year, because we don't know how long the vaccine will last, because we'll need to follow up. We're going to calculate: 200 nurses a year with natural contracts, more or less, rounding up, it's 6 million euros. And I agree -- Mrs. Rodil said so -- rights and also the right to vaccination -- this is a right right right right now -- it costs money, of course, yes, and we're going to count it. Six million euros is 0.0004 % of the board budget. By,000,00004% of the budget budget budget, are we going to vaccinate worse and slower? For the people's party's sake of not hiring any more? It's 6 million euros. We're going to need more professionals and therefore we'll find more! If it's not so complicated! It's not such a complicated calculation, Mrs. Friend. [[Applause]] More or less, about, a little up or down, is what picked up the PP on B envelopes from Basel, more or less. More or less, about. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] About the application of vaccines, I mean, here it is said notoriously that the Interterritorial Council, the Government of Spain, gives us less vaccines. I'll repeat it for the tenth time, though it won't be worth anything. Today it has been said here that no law had been passed with the support of the opposition in the past legislation, and I don't know what I did in favour of the Pharmacy Law, but at last it doesn't matter, because here there are Members who can say what they want, total... there are Members who have an oblique relationship to the truth; then we're going to leave it there because at last they're going to have a problem; they're going to have a problem. [[Applause]] They also said that 11 laws had been passed, but, finally, it doesn't matter, so the accounts go out, from Basel, of course. The interterritorial agreement. There's an agreement on December 23 that all autonomous communities have agreed on the distribution of vaccines. And of course the vaccines come in proportion to the group they apply, because it makes no sense to distribute vaccines depending on the population group from 20 to 25 years old when they're going to be vaccinated at the age of 80, and vice versa. Of course, we had less than we could consider depending on the bigger ones when the sanitaries are vaccinated. Do you know the best way to have more vaccines for health care? Having more health care, which might have been a better way out. About the wrong vaccines, I heard here in the previous intervention, in the previous debate, practically, that someone threatened to teach lists. If any member of the People's Party has lists of people who are vaccinating and those who are not, I think it's dangerous. I'm going to avoid this because I don't want to get in... I'm going to think we don't listen. Let's see, if we have a clear understanding of something, I think it's good that we share it between us all. That someone takes advantage of a position of influence to get vaccinated when he doesn't touch, taking away the vaccine from someone who needs it most, it's regrettable, it's indecent and it has to resign, whether it's party or whatever. I said this here and I put examples of my party colleagues, who, by the way, in this Parliament, the PP took a few seconds to comment on it in a committee on the day the news came out. I'm waiting for the PP to say that the mayor of Boimorto has to resign; and not only by saying it, but by telling his colleagues in Boimorto that they do not support it because, if not, it's free, and asking for free resignation is very easy. I can ask for it, too, but it's not worth it. [[Applause]] I don't know if you've been vaccinated by the manager, by the boss -- or whatever the position is -- by DomusVi, I don't know if you've been vaccinated to pay him the rights or the favors lent; but it's, in any case, indecent. Because, besides, if you're permanently in contact with residents, you're making a mistake; you can't go, in many cases, families and you can go to all residences, circulating the virus, which is an explanation worse than reality. The reality is that she was vaccinated because it was her; if it wasn't who she was, she wouldn't get vaccinated. [[Applause]] And about the mascarillas -- which we also propose in the motion -- until we reach the vaccination, what should we do? Protect. I've seen -- and there's a few going on, it's not that he's a very old guy, anyway -- many times that when Mr. Feijóo has a problem he shoots at the central government, and he invented the other day that the government was reading to us with the FFP-2 masks because they seem interesting. Well, clear proposal: start with the health professionals systematically and continuously and that they tell the clinical services that FFP-2 masks are administered to all health professionals and from there on, all public professionals, but let's start with the health professionals, because if we don't, we'll end up understanding that the masks give you the same, that the health care professionals give you the same and that the only thing they want is to look for how to be able to cope with the central government so they can avoid talking about what we have to talk about, which is today -- and nobody's putting it on their faces -- the data they've assumed to feel better is very bad. So, as we have a problem between all of us, here all but one, we want to solve the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u103	... and don't go looking for trouble. So if you have that concern about FFP-2 mascarillas, pay them for healthcare professionals. By the way, for some of them they've already voted for someone as head of service for using masks at the moment, don't forget.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u104	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Today we are debating again an important issue for citizenship, as is the topic of vaccination. And we really think that this debate should be a quiet debate, a peaceful debate. We think the same thing a fellow of yours said this morning: that introducing certain issues leads to nothing but giving it to the citizenry, let alone. A year ago from the beginning of this pandemic, and you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, the confusion that has occurred in the population of Greece and the confusion even in scientific circles in the presence of a virus that we knew absolutely nothing about. We didn't know the transmission mechanism, virulence, pathogenicity, nothing, nothing about their behavior. And the first wave ended, unfortunately, with many deaths and many people still suffering from this disease today. At that moment everyone dreamed of the vaccine. The vaccine has come and we think and we agree with you that it's a very positive fact. That message of positivity and that ray of hope that we have with the vaccine and the good vaccination process in Spain, occupying -- as you say -- the fifth country in order of vaccination in the world. Thanks to this vaccine, today in Galicia there are 22,000 senior residents and 17,000 senior workers, as well as 21,000 Sergas workers who fight in the front line against this virus. And this, if they were to tell us just a year ago, it would seem like great news. In Galicia it started on December 27 with the first dose in residences and it's finished these days with the second. Other autonomous communities chose other health groups. Here it began with the older people of residence, the most vulnerable people. And the staff who worked in the front line was also vaccinated,-- explained the counselor the other day-- The vaccine was administered to all staff working in sheltered or precovid units, in areas such as emergencies, ICUs, Awakening... workers were also vaccinated, of course, where the risk of infecting the patient is dangerous as is, for example, Oncology, Hado, Nephrology, in the health centers... and all of these personnel are vaccinated: doctors, nurses, cells, administrations, cleaning personnel... anyone who works in them. In addition, this great work has been done by the nursing staff, both of the preventive medical services of hospitals and these 200 volunteers who have taken the step to vaccinate and go through all the residences in Greece, administering the vaccine and getting us to be the first to finish a great job. And from here we add the People's Group to that recognition, to that great work of these 200 nurses. Recruitment increased by 10%. [[Applause]] But it's not just those 200 nurses, Mr. Torrado, that there are also nurses in all the health centers in Galicia who put the influenza vaccine and at any time they can get vaccinated. The president of the Galician Association of Family and Community Nursing, who works on Ourense Vaccination Team, said these days, "There is capacity to multiply the rate of vaccines that are put on a day of peak flu," and he has no doubt about the system's ability to immunize the population in a short period of time. That's if -- it said -- "always the necessary vaccines arrive." And one person who works in a city like Ourense, who was the first in Spain as a percentage of vaccinated population. Yesterday even the secretary general of the Nursing Council said on a national television set that a single nurse can vaccinate 200 people every morning and that if the rhythm is slow, it's because there are no doses. He meant all over Spain. He didn't mean only Galicia. Just as voices from the Spanish Society of Family and Community Medicine say that up to now what is changing the vaccination schedule is precisely the behavior of laboratories. So, Mr. Torrado, what professionals say is that they couldn't work at their maximum level of performance because they didn't have enough vaccines. The rate of vaccination depends, as you know, on the proportion of vaccines that arrive, on the availability of those vaccines and which they are. Obviously, if there aren't a lot of AstraZeneca vaccines, which are for those under 55, we won't be able to vaccinate people over 80. What has to be very clear is that if you don't vaccinate, it's not because of lack of staff -- and the professionals tell you -- but because you don't have any doses. However, in the amendment we tabled we did not close the door to ask for more recruitment and increased staff, if necessary, in the case of a massive arrival of vaccines. I wish these vaccines would arrive, and we'll be delighted to ask you to hire a lot more people. With regard to the request for a report from the Vaccination Plan, we agree with you at this point; we agree that it will continue to inform you because, as you will recall, at the beginning of this legislative period, in the first Health Committee, the Director General for Public Health came to report on the Vaccination Plan. I believe that I made it quite clear and that he also undertook to come to this Health Committee when it was necessary to continue to explain what was being done. By the way, highlighting the good position that Galicia has achieved regarding the administration of the vaccine against the coronovirus. A good job that corresponds to the schedule being done. And from here we add to congratulating this good management of the Government of Greece; management that is the best rated by the Greeks, even by the voters of their party, of the Socialist Party, while the Government of Sánchez is the most worn-out. In the survey we have seen these days: "The management of the Pandemic by the Union, the best valued by the Galicians. PSOE voters also approve the management of the Galician Executive." [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez shows a document, which goes on to read below.]] [[Applause]] You have to look at it, Mr. Torrado. If the voters of your party approve Mr. Feijóo's management, something will be doing well in this pandemic, we think, don't we? With regard to joining the initiatives and agreements of the International Council to combat the improper application of vaccines, if you are referring to what happened at the last International Council of 28 January, where Minister Darias -- who was her first Council -- asked autonomy: "Extending follow-up, analysis and control of the application of the vaccination strategy, taking the preventive and corrective measures that are necessary to ensure vaccination processes"... to say this and say nothing is the same, because in no case defines how to do so; they are generalities. Leave it at random, as everyone wants. And that's why they voted against this agreement the Basque Country, Catalonia, Galicia and Castile-Leon. Do you think these autonomous communities that I just appointed are against proper dose administration? I think you've either played well, or confused, or tried to confuse, I don't know. We will always be in favour of the proper administration of doses, as we are in favour of ensuring that the distribution of vaccines in all autonomous communities is proportional to priority population groups, thus ensuring the misuse of application. Do you have to watch? Of course I do. We must be careful that no one should be vaccinated, but we must also lay down rules so that communities can vaccinate those who must. As for the use of FFP2 masks, you will have to agree. On the one hand, you ask to provide FFP2 masks for public employees with special risk of exposure to infections to the extent that clinical recommendations are appropriate. We agree with you. But on the other hand, "the government says that it is not believed that the FFP2 masks protect better." The Minister of Consumption, Alberto Garzón, yesterday at the South Canal said "there doesn't seem to be a sufficiently rigorous source at the moment to believe that we are better protected in this way." He's a member of the Sánchez Government. On the other hand, "Fernando Simón has recognized the suitability of its use among health professionals while in some European countries they are indispensable for the use of public transport." We believe, first, that we have to agree, that the central government has to agree, and then define with the autonomous communities -- precisely, in coordination with them -- in which spaces it is necessary to establish the mandatory use of FFP2. And that has to be the same for all of Spain, doesn't it? I really don't want to think wrong, but, I don't know, maybe, Minister Montero doesn't want them to be compulsory, so I want to put the EVV down. So to finish -- and I've already told you before -- we've rejected the wrong vaccine applications, I think that's something we all agree on. It's not a question of acronyms, it's not a problem of political parties or something, it's a problem of certain people, they're wherever they are. And from the Popular Group, we don't support that kind of conduct. I don't want to go into "and you anymore," I don't want to go into those things. You know as I do that there's a lot of news in the press these days and precisely a lot of them are from your party, and I'm not going to say anything here. But what is true is that in any case that happened in the People's Party, the fact that the People's Party stood up, acted as fast as in the case of a mayor you just named, is a clear sign that we pursue irregularities. That person is no longer in the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u107	I'm done, Mr. President. Don't laugh because it's true. In other cases, we do not always respect that principle of exemplaryness and responsibility... We, of course -- finished, Mr. President -- support that everyone receives the vaccine when he touches it, but what has to be clearly established are these conditions for all autonomous communities. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] That's why we introduced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u109	...here's an amendment, which we expect you to count on your support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u110	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Iria Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u111	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, go ahead with our support for this Socialist Group motion. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo began by recalling that it is almost a year since WHO's declaration of the pandemic caused by the harbor-19, and at this point the arrival of the vaccines seems to be beginning to insinuate a faint light at the end of the tunnel that I assumed this disease. A pandemic in which, although in the beginning it has repeated itself on countless occasions that would be the opportunity to make us better as a society, what we are looking at is that on too many occasions it is serving to perpetuate the old roles, exacerbating social and economic inequalities, further precariousing the working class and opening up to the free market to speculate again with the life and health of people, as we have seen most notably with the case of vaccines. And since the vaccines are the reason for this initiative, I would like to stop a few moments in the events that have developed over the past few months and weeks and which, I think, faithfully portray the deterioration of this system. The Western world has opted to publicly finance private companies for the development of these vaccines, while much of the press has been despised about those developed by public researchers from other nations; private companies, pharmaceuticals, which have already left more than manifest their great interest in economic gain. Let's remember that Pfizer executive who put for sale a large part of his actions just on the day that the effectiveness of his vaccine was announced, thus collecting more than $5 million and a half dollars at the end of the day. Or companies like AstraZeneca, in their struggle with the European Union with regard to the fulfilment of the agreed contract and the doses that were or were not to be delivered. In addition, in our case, we are following a self-contained European Union strategy that is as ineffective as it is insufficient to pay attention to the limited number of doses being distributed; a strategy that follows a fully-centered approach to NATO vaccines, without paying attention to what happens outside this circle. On this line, BNG has been sued on several occasions to pay attention to other vaccines beyond those prioritized by the European Union, which have already demonstrated its effectiveness. This is the case, for example, of the Sputnik developed in Russia, which is already being distributed both in Russia itself and in other states. But it's also the case of the vaccine synthesized by China that has approved its marketing since December. Or even the Sovereign of Cuba who, although in phase 2 of the clinical trials, predicts himself as a good drug at a low cost. They're vaccines that could help to achieve the so-called collective immunization and that in the Spanish state they only start to consider themselves seriously now that Chancellor Merkel has seen the good news. And while all of this happens, we can't forget what the director of WHO and the director of Onusida have already pointed out: the great inequality between the rich countries and the poorest countries in this division, where, while some people are trading, others can only observe. This doesn't just happen at the macro level, it also happens in the micro; little ethical behaviors that we're seeing reproduce throughout geography with people who have been vaccinated long before what they would have to do with, from the management staff of hospital centers, going through mayors who until recently shared acronyms with the Government party to end up with directives from business groups that bear on their backs the dubious honour of being the old residences with a greater number of deaths during this pandemic. All of them vaccinated, not before the elders or the large dependents who are in their homes, also before the health care staff who carry out guards in sheltered areas or as long-income dependent patients in a hospital where several grotesques have already been given, as is the case in the Psychiatric Hospital of Conxo. It is essential to know how these phases of the vaccination plan were developed and at the same time to make a firm and unanimous condemnation, accompanied also by the corresponding consequences, of those people who put the vaccine using a position of influence above the community interest. And if I don't, it'll be clear, not only the low morals of those who are vaccinated, but also the low morals of those who justify it. I was beginning to say that vaccination opens a light at the end of a tunnel, but even if this light shines, we know it's a light that's far away and the masks will continue to accompany us for a while. That's why it's important that we don't untie the algorithm, that no empty celebrations begin and that once again, looking for the gentle headline and the nice picture, you can risk people's life and health. Prevention measures have to be on the table at all times and it can't be that, while we had 248 patients yesterday in intensive care, if you can hear insinuations about saving Holy Week, after the great salvation that was Christmas -- and please note the irony -- Talking about the vaccine and a possible post-pandemic horizon can't make us forget that we're still immersed in a third wave that presents truly alarming figures. The goal must always be to save lives, save people's health, and save a crippled health system, which is full of exhausted and overpassed professionals who have been in extreme circumstances for a year, bearing a great physical and psychological burden, not counting on the support due to the Joina. Because it's worth a few restaurant checks, which they gave themselves as if they were candy, nor did they increase the number of professionals, who we already knew was scarce, just talking about a few contracts that were made during the pandemic and that are given by their own precariousness. Because if I have a nurse who contracts today at a health center, tomorrow at a hospital and last morning at a CAP, in the end, what I have is three contracts and a professional exploited. You can't wait until the last moment that professionals are needed to get them out of wherever they are, you can't have your own vaccination plan supporting the possibility that, if necessary, primary care nurses will be mobilized, or other services, as if they didn't need it. [[Applause]] As is commonly said out of here, that is to disguise one saint to dress another, and what denotes is a lack of interest and a lack of planning. The vaccination plan is a bit complex and cannot be subjected to late-minute improvisation and loose ends. And, of course, it's something that's important enough to get them out of friendship and personal interests. They'll have to settle all the responsibilities in the irregularities they've given themselves -- and I want to think that they're not going to give themselves any more -- both the ones we know and the ones we don't know. The particular interest cannot be left over the health of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Iria Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u113	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the support provided by the BNG. Since you mentioned it, I think it is important, at least, to get into the debate. We don't share the reading of NATO vaccines and non-NATO vaccines. We prefer the understanding of vaccines validated by science and vaccines not validated by science. I suppose within these 2,200,000 Greeks at some point I'll be vaccinated, and when I do, I'll put what they tell me. It's basically our criterion. What happens is that all those quoted are not yet validated in Europe to be applied. So, it seems to us a little bold, actually, to talk about whether you're interested or not. Because to me the owner of Pfizer may seem very bad or very good what he did, whatever. I don't like what he did, but I trust Pfizer's investigators, that these are pretty good. Then we have to disagree. Not everything is politics of cold war blocks, not even with vaccines, so I say that was important to say. But, in any case, we share the validity of the procedure, beyond that discrepancy which Mrs Carreira knows we have, with naturally cordiality. About the manifesto here, Mrs Vispo, what a bad drink happened to have to defend the mayor of Boimorto! He said "the mayor of Boimorto," that it cost him to say it, even so he wouldn't get the cut on the radio. "The Mayor of Boimorto." He failed to say, "That lady you're talking about." And for a moment, you're a very good lady, and I almost thought you'd be blamed for having the mayor of Boimorto vaccinate Zapatero or Pedro Sánchez. [[Applause]] He's been close, he's been close already, because maybe I didn't say it clearly -- I think so. The mayor of Boimorto made a mistake, took advantage of his office and has to resign, and the party requesting his resignation is the same as he is holding her in the municipal office. If you want me to resign, don't keep voting on it, and point. And if they vote for it, they're supporting it. [[Applause]] If not, it's free; it's that, if not, breaking is free and we're telling people that, in the end, nobody pays for a mistake, and that's what denigrates politics. I know I can't impose any more on you personally, I know it deeply. He didn't mention to me that "the one you're talking about" about the DomusVi case, and I thank him, but I think the Council will have to answer that, and I'm sure it'll be hard for him to answer. About the staff. Now it's argued that we can vaccinate, because some professionals, yes, there are some cases that say they can get vaccinated -- I don't know how many people a day; yes, yes -- and others say no. So, who do we listen to? This is the question of always. Allow me to resume the matter. The decisions are political; the technicians contribute, but the decisions are political. The People's Group also said they could vaccinate 9,000 people a day; now they say it's 38,000, according to Feijóo. So, what happens, they learned to vaccinate the nurses faster now in two weeks, or was it at that time that they were interested in saying one thing, now another, and they don't care what they say? Because the Counsellor's Vaccination Plan was presented under the ratio of 40 or 45 vaccinations per day per nurse. Was the Counsellor wrong? Was he miscalculated? I did the calculation, which I presented with that calculation, with the counsellor's. Look if we're in consensus, let's accept the Council's calculation! Of course, if we accept the Council's calculation and then you tell me it's wrong, who do we listen to? But don't worry it's Pedro Sánchez's fault. This is the question that we moved: six million euros to more staff. Why? Because you moved it, the counselor once said it, and I think we've also talked about it in the Commission: when it's necessary to have a greater amount of vaccination, they'll be primary care nurses, who can vaccinate. Of course you know, they do it perfectly, but it's about not having to withdraw primary staff. If we're already predicting that it will be necessary to take that remedy, let's hire more. It's 0,0004 % budget to vaccinate well. What's more important is good, fast and safe vaccination right now? Nothing. Six million euros we don't think it's such an unnecessary investment. It's tremendously useful for us not to have after we say, then they're the primary ones. But it's just that primary nurses, if they get vaccinated, stop doing other work. Besides, today, in primary school, with the lack of presence that we have -- which is very large because of the situation in which we live -- we're not caring for many people. There's only 200 more people there; they're personal eventually many times that we have to hire a year, that's all. About the masks. How difficult it is to defend what you had to defend and give the reason to Alberto Garzón! The People's Party was right to Alberto Garzón, who is already fantastic. I've seen it all today, we can leave the plenary. I've seen everything. The People's Party said that, as the Secretary General of the United Left said, I don't know that, that's all right. No, the question is, doesn't Mr. Feijó have clinical criteria? He says he's covering up on a clinical committee. Perfect! Well, then, when you say here that the FFP2 masks have to be studied, it's because you have some report, some criteria or some experts tell you... because you tell them how many, because if they're important, you'll have to put them to the health care. How curious! Whoever has to put them to the sanitaries will be the Junta of Galicia. Or who? Or it will be, as you said, Minister Montero. Let's see if it's going to be the other way around: that Mr Feijóo wants to send a problem, but what he has is a problem with paying the masks to his healthcare professionals. What we propose is that, if you consider them important, you start by putting them, by the woman of Caesar: if you want to give an example, you start by putting it. Caesar's wife made him apply to this, huh? Not to the mayor of Boimorto, who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u114	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u115	On the amendment, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u116	Did you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u117	We consider with great interest the People's Party's will to be able to wake up. We have a minimum compromise proposal, which we're going to pass on to the People's Party and the BNG, and which we're going to try to resolve before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u118	Perfect. All right. Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion by G. P. Bloc Nationalista Galego, on the initiative of Mr. Daniel Pérez López, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the impact of the cod-19 on the housing sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u119	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u120	Mr. Pérez López has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u121	President. Good afternoon, everyone. Since the beginning of the pandemic, it is the hospitality sector that is most likely to suffer from the consequences of health measures, restrictive activity and shelter. From the declaration of the state of alarm decreed by the Spanish State to the last restrictions decreed by the United States, ten months passed from a sort of Russian mountain of closures and relaxation of measures that caused the Greek hosts and hosts to end up stressed and exhausted, because even in moments of escalation or new normality, which soon lasted, the general epidemiological situation caused the number of customers not to be sufficient to recover at least their punished economies. The crisis caused by the coward-19 has affected many sectors of our country, but it has affected especially the hostel. From March to November, for ten months, they suffered total or partial restrictions on activity, limitations on time and time, and they were the first to be required to adapt their sites to comply with the health protocols and thus be able to continue working. With the passage of months the discouragement was going on in an area that saw how that Russian mountain of escalation and new restrictions happened, which were undermining its spirit and its capacity for both anemic resistance -- as we say -- as economic. Because the escalators assumed that this sector was the last to return to relative normal activity, and the restrictions decreed day after day showed little sensitivity and understanding with the hostess. Closing the activity a Thursday meant restaurants, for example, a lot of losses arising from the perishable product already market for the weekend, and this situation has been repeated on several occasions. In addition, when the epidemiological situation worsened, the first sector that saw limited its activity was precisely that of the inns, which caused them to feel criminalized and marked as possible source of contamination, when in the vast majority of cases the different places adopted and respected the health measures imposed. They're the ones most interested in transmitting that bars, cafes and restaurants are safe spaces. But the big problem was that for more than nine months of necessary restrictive health measures of activities continued to result in rent, light, insurance, telephone and TPV bills, maintenance and cleaning costs of premises, while their billing was minimal or non-existent. And all of this without from the state, nor from the Union, if you articulated a single line of direct aids to cover or, at least, help to pay those bills that arrive, you have or do not have restricted or limited activity. Therefore, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, we consider this specific plan for housing, self-employed and directly associated pemes and sector-dependent; a specific plan that must necessarily contain direct aid, because what meets the sector is the lack of liquidity. BNG's direct support has been demanding them from the German Government since the beginning of the political course. Let the Spanish Government stand by on this subject until now does not justify that the Union has done so, because the Union has economic powers and budgetary capacity to cope with the articulation of such aid for current expenditure. So I should have done it, even though it was only for responsibility, and because from the sector they were insistently asking him to do it. It is clear that these aids would not have solved the problem of drowning in the sector, but, if they had been adopted at the hardest moments of the pandemic, coincident with the most restrictive measures, the German hostess might have caught air and the tremendous snowball of current expenses generated by the end of the year would have been much smaller. The plan to rescue the hospitality and culture that Junta launched in April did not solve this problem, because it did not contain a single direct help for these current expenses, so that situation, that snowball, was growing until November, despite the fact that in other communities, if these direct aids were articulated during those months, intended to meet those current expenses of the autonomous. On the part of the Galician Union, it wasn't until, precisely, the month of November. Finally in November, after nine months of crossing the desert of the sector, he announced to Junta a rescue plan for self-employed, micro-enterprises and hostage, a plan that since the BNG we have already said we considered insufficient to alleviate the situation of the hostess, which at that time was critical. At that time, the sector was already drowned by 10 months of accumulated losses generated by the expenses that had to continue to be paid, regardless of whether they had a limited or restricted activity entirely, so the so-called "Rescue Plan" imposed a patch and it was not, of course, enough. So the hospitality associations and the tourism cluster continued to request from the Board a real rescue plan that would allow the sector to be out of the limit situation in which it was found. So in January, Junta decreed new restrictions that affected them and that took place just after the decision to start an escalation in December, to, according to Mr. Feijóo's words, "Save Christmas." Displaced that since BNG we consider it hasty and irresponsible -- and we already said it -- and it seems that time has given us reason. But it's not, at least, a cause for joy, because that decision neither saved Christmas, nor saved lives, which was and is really important. I assumed a step back in the struggle against the pandemic. And now we're again in an extremely complicated situation from the epidemiological point of view, as well as economics. In parallel to the new January restrictions, the hostel, represented by several associations -- not all -- by the tourism cluster and also by the Union itself, announced in the press -- in the press! -- the impulse of a cooperation fund to channel future aid that would involve the municipalities, the deputies and the Union themselves. A model similar to that applied in Valencia, where the Union would provide 50 million -- 50 % of the total amount --, the MPs by 30 % and the municipalities by 20 %. Since we had knowledge of that cooperation fund in the press, the BNG has clearly demonstrated its favourable position, because we understand that the critical situation in the sector demanded that all administrations reach the shoulder, and that is despite the fact that the meetings were not in the most appropriate frame. If there was a clear and determined will to reach an agreement, by the Board it would have called, from the very first moment, the deputies and the municipalities, which it never did. At all that time there was no direct communication from the Galician Board with the other administrations necessarily involved in the elaboration of this plan. Still, BNG's position has always been in favour of reaching an agreement. We are aware of the importance of the hospitality sector, both of the direct weight that the sector has in the Welsh GDP and of the drag that its fall could have in other sectors. This sector has a particular feature: it generates movement in our peoples and in our cities and powers other very important activities, such as trade. I had to see the streets only after 6:00 p.m., when bars and cafes were already closed and other shops could be opened until 9:00 p.m.; those streets were empty. But we understand that this three-band agreement, as originally formulated, seriously compromised the budgets of the provincial and local administrations and that it should therefore be consensual. And as for contributions, from the BNG we argued that each administration made the same budgetary effort. Each administration would provide 1 % of its budget. The plan meant for the sector an injection of, at least, 140 million euros and that would be fair, balanced and assumable both by the deputies and the municipalities, and also by the board of Galicia. After that announcement in the press, it was the tourism cluster that called for a meeting in which the three administrations would be present, and at that meeting that contribution of 1% of each administration's budget was placed on the table, which we assumed -- as we say -- a genuine rescue plan, 140 million euros for the hospitality and tourism. The board and the presidencies of the Deputies and the Fegamp were reticent, but they were set up for a new meeting. But at the next meeting the postures have changed completely. The Board announced that what would be a specific plan for hospitality and tourism would now extend to autonomous, micro-enterprises and other closed activities, that their contribution -- yes -- would rise from the initial 50 million to the 75 and that there would be agreement or would not start those lines. On the other hand, we find ourselves with the closure -- hard to understand, and there they have to excuse me at the PSOE -- through the presidencies of the Deputy and the Presidency of the Fegamp. The president of the Fegamp did not transfer any agreement from the executive of the Fegamp, since at no time in that body the model of aid management was agreed upon or the specific participation of the various municipalities that are part of it. Some have given priority to their partisan positions on the need and urgency of a major political rescue agreement in this sector. And the possibility of a vital and urgent agreement failed. From BNG we deeply regret the failure of this negotiation process to achieve the aid plan, because -- and I say it again -- to the lack of seat belt and the closure of the PSOE. That's why we are looking for the House's agreement to urge the Board to set up a specific rescue plan for the hospitality sector, autonomous and pemes directly associated and dependent to the sector, all of them especially affected by restrictions; a plan covering 70% of the losses caused by restrictions and is compatible with any other aid or promotion measure granted from public administrations. In addition, in parallel and compatible with the previous motion, we insist on the need to give an agile and rapid response to the other economic sectors of our country, for which it is necessary for the Board to exercise the leadership required by the sectors concerned and to promote a great deal of agreement based on inter-administration collaboration, with the same budgetary effort on the part of all. The main thing, most importantly, is that future aid comes within the shortest time limit for those affected by the vault-19 and that comes in sufficient amount. And finally, in urging the Union also to ask the Spanish State for the measures reflected in the motion, especially the opening of a direct line of aid to the hospitality and business directly associated and dependent of the sector. All help, of course, will be little. I think it's time for all the administrations to reach their shoulders; they're demanding them from the Galicians and the Greeks, and specifically the hospitality and tourism sector, because the situation is very serious. And just like this, if we close all our shoulders, we can face the crisis that goes along with guarantees of, at least, resisting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u122	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Murillo Solis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u123	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I was now listening to the deputy of the BNG, and when I was talking, I was thinking about what the intervention would be like. I thought I was going to have a completely conciliatory tone, because I think we're here to fix solutions for people who are going through it, because it's true that we've all had conversations with this sector and we all know what they're living for. But it is also true that in the last few hours I have been given statements by Mr. Abel Caballero -- to whom much respect, it is true, in his role as mayor of Vigo -- speaking of the fact that the Galician Union has 400 million euros that gave him the state for the inn. So, what is the Government of the United States doing with the money? So I'm adjourned, because even today I also have a newspaper in my hand that says, "Millions demands for the vault, a new front against the state." This is what happens in the reality of the world, not the reality of Mr. Caballero, who -- I repeat -- I have a lot of appreciation and respect for him. Besides, I also see that there is a demonstration of the hosts, who protest at the state farm because they don't want to keep paying the broken plates of the crisis. This is the reality. Mr. BNG said the PSOE stands aside. [[Mrs. Murillo Solis shows a document.]] No, no, he's face-to-face. Mr. Abel Knight himself stood up against the Council of Galicia today, when the reality of the hospitality world is this. This is the reality of the sector. This is what we all know, and this is the reality of all the people who are working in the hospitality world and who are going through it. [[Mrs. Murillo Solis shows a document and a paper.]] That's why I'm going back to my tone, which is a conciliator tone, so that we all find a consensus in seeking help for this sector. Today we are talking again about the hospitality; about the situation that is living an important sector in our country, relevant to our economy and necessary for living together in society. We're talking about entrepreneurs, self-employed, small businesses, holes, taverns, bars, restaurants, tourist accommodation, and much more. We're talking about reality, about the reality that came with the health crisis that we're living in. We'll talk about what people want, about solutions. We won't have a debate right now about whether the best option right now is the total closure of the activity -- as Mrs. Pontón defends -- or whether the sudden and urgent lifting of restrictions is necessary. We'll finally talk about the aid; you're more than necessary in the face of a situation that no one thought they had to live. This same month's report from Spain's hostel indicates that more than 40% of autonomous communities have completely or partially closed the interiors of bars and restaurants for more than a hundred days. In that same report, we know that seven autonomous communities have decreed total closure, while there are restrictions on the rest of them. That's why, and because I think that no one doubts our commitment to people, the People's Group's commitment to those who want to bet on doing, growing, and innovating, we must be supportive; solidarity with those who had to close so that the virus would not go on, with those who had to close for caution, simply because everything was going to get worse. Legislature began in July. The crisis was already known. It was the Government of Unity, and it began to work with concern, but without pause. From the first vice-presidentship of the Government and from the Employment Council, discussions were resumed with sectors affected with the aim of adopting as soon as possible an instrument agreed by all to ensure the viability of self-employed workers and the housing sector. These negotiations culminated in the launch of a rescue plan for self-employed people, hostels and micropemes. These sectors were especially affected by the cowardice. This plan was developed through two orders in November, as already mentioned by the honourable Member, the 17th and 26th November, on which the foundations of employment maintenance programmes were regulated in microenterprises, the housing support programme and the work of self-employed people. This plan was finally granted EUR 86 million, to benefit 10,000 micro-enterprises and 30,000 self-employed. The three lines of aid to the plan complement each other, so the hostel can provide support ranging from 6,700 to 9,200 euros. The processing was agile and simple. From this first plan, on January 25th -- a few days ago -- they were executed about 70 million euros, corresponding to the payment of 90 percent of the claims resolved favourably. More than 40,000. You are about to publish a second rescue plan in the next few days. This time we're talking about 75 million more, which, together with the 86 of the first plan, makes a total of 160 million euros in just 90 days. Galicia is now the autonomous community of Spain which has given this sector the most help, and you know it. By comparing it with other budgetary realities in this House, the amounts allocated only to the first plan of the Board account for more than twice the annual budgets of the General Secretariat of Sports of the Galician Board, but not this meeting, also of the Bipartite Board. It's more than twice as much as you're going to invest all year in sports. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the speed in the processing of aid was a priority from the first moment for the Galician Union, in fact, it was the first administration to develop a direct aid plan for the sector. Listening to and meeting the needs of the affected, this second rescue plan at first gathered, as you speak, the proposal to follow the Valencian model, trying to reach consensus on a fund with input from different administrations. Today, they know that contributions will not come because the delay is unjustified. The answer from some administration didn't come, and we had the clear rejection of some other one; you know the same as we do. The delay is not beneficial to anyone, so the Galician board decided to move forward with the second plan, allowing and hoping that later other administrations might join in so that the aid would arrive as soon as possible. In this second plan, there are news that has been transferred by the sectors affected and that have been hosted on the basis of the aid that came out in the coming days. Among other things, the simplification of procedures, the need not to believe by self-employed persons the provision of cessation of activity, or the need not for micro-enterprises to have been active or have passed an ERTE to opt for such aid. The three lines of help that will compete in this new second plan are compatible with each other, allowing the first aid receivers to submit a new request if they meet the requirements. The Board will extend these new aids both to closed places and to those who can only serve meals on the terraces, provide catering at home or collect food at home. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that no one doubts that the board has been, is and will be with the sector from the very first moment. The report of the Spanish hostel, which was known early this month, points out that there are significant differences in the management of aid between the autonomous communities, placing in value the management and speed of Catalonia and Galicia! in processing, as well as the importance of aid given in Galicia! to an important sector such as nighttime leisure, with amounts far above the average of others. Now speaking of your motion, gentlemen of the BNG, we fully agree with the need to find a consensus to conquer an axile solution, transcendently for all administrations, which allows this sector affected by restrictions to resist. You ask in your motion to help the Union and the State. We ask the Union, the state, the deputies and the municipalities. All at once, because any help these hard moments will be necessary. In your proposal they speak of a rescue plan limited to five types of business, and forgetting, for example, that the hostel will cover, in addition to food and beverage services, housing services, which would be left out of the aid, according to what you collect on your initiative. It also talks about covering 70 percent of the losses caused by restrictions to stop the virus. Do you know the reality of the country? Do you know Galician budgets when you make these requests? Do you think Galicia has to fund with its money what other administrations, like the state, still don't want to assume? Look, 70% of Galicia's budgets are dedicated to health care, education and social services, and I could tell you that they're practically engaged right now. He speaks at the next point of his motion about the leadership of the Board to reach a great deal of agreement based on collaboration between administrations. Yes, yes, we agree, but they didn't want the other administrations, so the board will go on. As I've already told you, there's no time; there's only time to get out as soon as possible in the help of those who need it. We present in our amendment a possibility in which we leave the door open so that in the distant future the interests of all can be joined together for the common good. Together won't wait any longer for an agreement that doesn't come up and people want solutions. We agree with you on the need for flexibility in the procedures and requirements required to collect the aid, while we understand that the seven years granted in the current regulation for the depreciation of credits is a reasonable time. With regard to requests for aid to the Government of Spain, we fully agree with your proposals, adding something else to our side, such as the lowering of VAT to the housing and tourism sectors. It is a fact that the aid of European hostiers leaves the Government of Spain in a very bad place. We are, as you know, the only country in Europe without direct help from the hostel. Italy, Germany, France, Luxembourg and Belgium provided up to 40,000 euros in direct aid to the sector. The Union had to leave, together with other autonomous communities, the rescue of a sector that sank because the delegation of the powers of the state of alarm to the autonomous communities by the Socialist Government of Spain seemed a way of forgetting that Spain and the Spaniards and, of course, the Greeks are part of their responsibility. In this spirit of consensus which must preside over this debate today, this parliamentary group, after listening to the representatives of the sector these past weeks, requests in its amendment that Members and Councils of Galicia also be urged to join this initiative for direct collaboration with the sectors most affected by the restrictions. We call for the need for direct collaboration to be made available to municipalities and Members. We call for direct aid to be provided to the sector to solve moments of liquidity such as these, which result in total bonus, exemption, taxes and taxes on closed sites and without activity due to pandemic restrictions, as well as the refund of taxes charged last year for the same reason. We understand that, if the retroactivity of the norm is impossible, this aid is provided directly to neutralize the sustained taxation. In the case of deputies, with budgets and competences -- as we all know -- with a wide margin for change, given the extreme situation of the moment, we appeal to the focus of their policies -- at least for a while -- in helping sectors affected by the pandemic. I hope, Mr President, that we can come to a transaction that from the consensus and reality of each administration pushes and increases the support for a sector that has been supportive of everyone and which now needs everyone's help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Murillo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u125	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I also want to have a conciliatory tone in this kind of initiative, which, on the other hand, are already being debated in this House over the past few months, especially at this time when the pandemic is strikingly impacting all economic sectors, especially in the hospitality sector, with the consequences of all known. It's a crisis that's going on in time, and today we don't have the right exit horizon yet, but if we hope that the vaccine will actually put an end to this anomaly that we're living through this last year. It is indeed a crisis that is asymmetric and that affects the economy of the country in different ways, especially those businesses, those activities, which are aimed at closing or which are currently facing closure as a result of the clinical measures that are being taken; measures that affect businesses that are basically in the hands of autonomouss that, as we all know, are the most important collective in terms of job creation in this country. The magnitude of the crisis is already known, the diagnosis we have all assumed; even the magnitude of the crisis will be much more powerful than initially envisaged by the end of 2020. There are studies -- BBVA, Funcas -- that reveal that the fall in GDP in Galicia is going to be over 9.7%. In fact, today the councillor was talking about the fall of GDP in Galicia in the fourth quarter with less momentum than in the whole of Spain, in the middle of Spain. It is true, but it is also true that in the Greek economy the weight of tourism is lower than in the whole of Spain and that, fortunately, there are certain economic sectors that are having a positive behaviour, such as automotive, or how it can be food, which actually contributes to the decline of GDP in Galicia in a smaller way. Also the scarce demographic dynamism in Galicia conjugates this slightest fall. As far as the hospitality sector is concerned, it is true that we are facing a sector that engulfes -- or engulfes -- in 2019, 66,000 workers, approximately 21,000 establishments, and where the fall in activity in international terms, from November to November, was 66.3%, a drop higher than in the average of the state. A fall that, indeed, not only affects bars, it also affects hotels, nights. They fell 77% of hotel occupation, of overnight stays, some 384,000 less than a year ago in terms measured from November to November. In short, 20,000-30 000 positions are at risk right now. That's why the administration's reactions have to be absolutely overwhelming in the face of the dimension of the problem we have right now. Finally, they can't be reactions that take into account a drop of help, they have to be powerful reactions to the magnitude that is unpublished in the last 80 years and in the face of an budget, in addition, which is unpublished in the last few years in Galicia. It's an expansive budget, a capacity budget, a budget with a cost supplement, an budget that allows impact, precisely, the crisis, that's why it's expansive, and it's an budget -- which I don't know if it's 400 million what the Government of the Union has received from the state for the hospitality -- that if it receives 430 million European funds, if it receives 685 million extraordinary transfers from the state, and if the Union also has debt capacity, because it has flexibility -- just like the set of autonomous communities -- the cost rule, and so you can owe more, it can spend more, it can cope with the challenges of this economic crisis with more economic capacity. In 2020, in fact, for ten months -- and it was the end of the year -- the Board reacted with a line of help -- 17 million in the area of hostel -- insufficient, to our trial --. We understood that no one expected there to be a third wave of the pandemic with this momentum, with this bluntness and, therefore, if it was again forced to take this kind of action. But the measures were insufficient, they were insufficient, and they were taken late, EUR 80 million, indeed, with all the aid granted to self-employed people. Now we're told about 75 million, we're told that there's no consensus with the Fegamp, we're told that there's no consensus with the deputies. The Galician Union has an budget of 11,600 million euros, the Galician Union has to give an agile and powerful response to a dramatic situation and it has to seek dialogue, indeed, within the realm of the Fegamp, and with the deputies so that we too -- and we are in line -- enter into a global rescue plan; each with its economic potential. And there have been a number of alternatives that the Galician Union has rejected, among them actually 1 % of the budget for each of the institutions, which, in fact, the Galician Union soon disarrays from this proposal and speaks of a wealth of money for the entire self-government and housing sector. We agree initially with the BNG motion. We understand it's a dramatic situation, we've been saying it for a long time, with some nuances. You suggest that, indeed, the State Administration has to provide direct assistance. And I also say yes, and in that sense I think the state is already working, there's already a plan on the table. As you know, direct aid needs supervision and authorisation from the European Commission, and in this sense the European aid framework is unlocked. And we understand that we will finally adopt an aid mechanism to the sector from the sphere of State administration. As far as social security quotas are concerned, here we have to introduce some kind of limitation on the fall in economic activity. That is to say, we agree that, in fact, autonomouss are able to obtain an end-to-end benefit, whenever and when activity falls, at least 50%, not as a general scheme, but as a result of the exemption from social security quotas. And in that sense, I'm also pointing out to him that he's working and that there's already a deal with the sector at the state level so that that's it. And with regard to the shortcomings of the ICO's loans, in November, a 24-month deficit and an eight-year repayment plan was approved. You've been talking here for three years. I don't have any drawback in considering this, but it seems to me that 24 months is a proper deadline for lack, and you're talking about three years. That's why we're not going to reject your initiative, but we understand that it's enough, that in this sense it's already worked out and I understand that it's positive as it's already adopted in November. A ICO -- everything is said -- which has been funded through loans, through guarantees, through the liquidity line, 35,000 companies in Galicia with more than 4,500 million euros. I say this not to compare it with the Igape, of course not, but to measure that the liquidity lines of the Igape were, in 2020, 130 million, compared to the 250 million announced by the advisor at the time. And that shows that Igape has to take a look at an economic context like what we are living in, because it has to be a much more useful tool, much more powerful, in the country's economic recovery, especially in helping the most damaged sectors that are currently being put to death, as is that of the hostel. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u126	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u127	Mrs. Rodil, today must be the day of the conciliator tone, so I'm seeing it. Must be the day you selected from the PP to have a conciliator tone. Yes, Mrs. Murillo Solis, yes. [[Mrs. Murillo Solis speaks words that are not perceived.]] All I did was contextualize the situation, and I ended up saying, very clearly, that it was time for us all to close our shoulders. I speak loudly, yes, but that's my voice and I've got it taken, what we're going to do! You also told me that there was a need for solidarity and asked me if they weren't solidarity with the sector. Nine months without direct help from the Board for a drowned sector that suffered restrictions, such as the one in the hostel, very supportive, of course, I don't think; regardless of what others had to do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And let me also when other autonomous communities -- most of them -- did direct help, including Andalusia -- in July --, Aragon, Huesca, Asturias, Balearics, Catalonia -- there are more: Castile and León, Ceuta, Valencia, Extremadura... well, there's still more... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] You also referred to the Bipartite. To point out, simply, I want to tell you that the most expansive budgets of the Board, which are this year's budgets, are still below what the Bipartite Sports Council was approaching. They contributed 32.5 million and in the Bipartite they contributed 40 million. [[Murmurs.]] If you'll allow me to follow a little with the lock, I'd like to thank you, if it's not too much to ask. [[Murmurs.]] Then, too, what we ask for is a budget effort by the Board, yes, for a specific rescue plan for the hospitality and associated business; and we also call for a great deal of agreement to rescue the other sectors; one led by the Board for that. Are you having problems in your face, Mr. Pazos? Yeah? Okay, perfect. Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I see, yes, yes, I see, I see! As I say, Junta has approved a truly expanding budget, with splits like those of Xacobeo, of 112 million euros. We have already put it in the question of why this motion is based: to allocate part of that, even if not all, to give air to the most affected sectors. And do you know what the answer to that has been since the Vice President of the Union? We didn't like Xacobeo. And I'm sorry to have to say it, but it's not true. I mean, Jacob is a good brand; I've said it since I've been here and I'll say it again. What we don't like or share is that identification that they're looking for up to paroxysm between Xacobeo and Junta or PP, because Xacobeo is a Welsh brand, it's not a PP brand. And what's worse is that he also argued in that plea that those Xacobeo matches would be destined, during these six months, to condition roads. And he literally said, "To have everything prepared for when you can prepare the Jacob. " To say that, with the situation that is going on in sectors such as hospitality and many other economic sectors in this country, I think it is quite censorable. On the other hand, the BNG has expressed its support for an inter-administration plan to help the most affected sectors. All we said was that we wanted a fair and balanced distribution, assumable for councils and deputies, because otherwise they would be mortgaged on their own competences in social security, culture, sport and municipal basic services. It is clear that Junta will have to allocate part of its budget to health care and I think you were talking about education, but the rest of the administrations also have their duties and have to comply with them. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, by entering what are the amendments to the PP, with regard to the first paragraph of paragraph 1 of the amendment, we cannot accept it, on the one hand, because we believe that there is a special impact suffered by the hospitality sector and related and dependent businesses, which are in a critical situation. And on the other hand, because of the drag effect it would have on other economic activities. We therefore consider it essential that there be a specific plan for this sector. In addition, this rescue plan for other economic sectors especially affected by your reference is already collected in our motion when we ask that the Union promote a large inter-administration agreement. With regard to the second paragraph of the first point of the amendment, what we ask is led, and we ask for it to promote a great deal of agreement to save the sectors affected by the pandemic. You in your amendment just speak of a leader to share the help. I don't think that's the main problem. [[Mrs. Murillo Solis denies with her hand and head.]] The rest of the questions they raise are already collected in our motion. And in relation to the cultural and tourist VAT, it has already been agreed in committee on an initiative, precisely the PP initiative, which called on the State to bring down the tourist VAT, that the BNG extended to the cultural and that we trade; therefore, we understand that it is totally superfluous. So we won't, of course, accept the amendments to the PP. I would like to thank the support in this case of the PSOE Parliamentary Group, because we understand that it is time to reach the shoulder and I believe that this has to be available to all groups of this Parliament; but a real predisposition, not simply by word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u128	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. Ends the debate on motions. We shall proceed to the vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u129	We started by voting on the motion of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil. There's a transaction that happened to the groups; they all know it. That's two points. I can comment on them: "promoting co-responsibility between men and women in non-professional care, making special fincapé in the bookstores for care in the family environment and boosting the figure of personal assistance envisaged in the SAAD." And the other one knows what it's like to add to the text itself. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the G.P. motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the impulse by the Greek Government of a new model of long-term care that addresses the attention to dependency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u130	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. I was pending a transaction, Mr. Torado, please? No transaction? Isn't there? [[Assentment.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo? Give him a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u131	Mr President, I would like to ask for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u132	Do you accept the point vote? Don't you? [[Mr. Torado Quintela denies it with his head.]] [[Murmurs.]] We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the vaccination campaign for curfew-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u133	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Daniel Pérez. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Mrs. Murillo Solis asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Murillo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u134	We call for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u135	Do you accept the point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u136	No, no, no, no. You don't accept it. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Pérez López, on the measures to be taken by the Greek Government and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to the impact of the covid-19 on the hospitality sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u137	Yours? So it's 33 positives. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. They've finished voting here and we're still on the agenda, which are non-legislative proposals. Silence! Please, what I said before is very important. Let's all behave...! Please, let's keep the security distances, which we're forced to fulfill, and don't pile up there. We have to set an example. Proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and to parliamentary groups represented in the General Courts in relation to the abolition or amendment of Article 18 of the draft law on climate change and energy transition, as well as to achieve a consensus for this or any other change that will be made in the future in the Law of Costs to take place after a study and dialogue with the complex sea-industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u138	The truth is it's a pretty long text. To formulate this non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u139	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. This non-law proposal was registered in September of last 2020; therefore, I will start by nudging some of the things that appear in the explanatory statement that are no longer relevant, such as the deadline for tabling amendments, which in the text says ends this month -- referring to September-- It is clear that the deadline has ended, but everything is still the same and, therefore, we felt it necessary to bring this non-law proposal to the present day, because the attitude of the PSOE allows it to be ending the possibility that the Government of Spain is rectifying and reacting; it is also ending the patience of this group; it is ending the patience of the Council of Galicia, especially the Council of the Sea, the Environment Council and the Industrial Council, and the most important is that patience and hope are already ending, above all the hope of the sector of the sea-industry chain, which has caught its future and that of its workers. Since we started with this uncertainty -- since April or March 2019 -- we have already warned the Royal Decree that amended the General Rules of Back and, since then, the excuses, lies and lies to which we have been accustomed to the opposition and the Government of Spain have played, at this time, with an disloyalty to the Government of the Union and, in addition to the concerns of the sector. So we're already alerting -- I insist -- since April 2019. This proposed amendment, which was lethal to the industrial sector at sea, raised, among other issues, problems such as the following: limiting the maximum time limit of the duration of the concessions of companies, jeopardizing the viability of many of them, which designed their business plans in accordance with the previous deadlines; it also said that the requirements met would be reviewed again to grant the concession when it had to be decided on the extension -- that would increase time, expenditure, documentation..., something very heavy-; and the obligation to derive outside the maritime-terrestrial public domain activities that could be carried out elsewhere. In some cases it's technically possible, but very expensive, and in others it's not possible. We have positioned ourselves, from the very first moment, against that modification -- directly against -- alerted by the marine chain sector -- - industry, and studying in depth what damage it could cause in Galicia, but at no time in a partisan manner, at no time in a partisan way! What they wanted to amend in the regulation, which was to save or amend that regulation, would be a major evil for Galicia. This regulatory change could affect, at least, hundreds of companies located on the coast of Galicia such as ceteries, debuggers, canned factories... but if we added all the buildings to the mar-industry chain, that regulation would affect thousands of structures in eighty coastal municipalities. What we warned was a threat then, today is a real danger; it is a real danger at the moment when some companies already find themselves in trouble in handling the renewal of their concessions. The Government of Greece, this People's Parliamentary Group and the Group of the People's Party in the Congress in Madrid defend the following: a regulation that takes account of the necessary viability and sustainability of the marine-related industries; that a principle of legal security should be maintained so that the affected do not depend on changes in legislation -- arbitrary changes -- that may put their activity at risk, and a clear and precise scenario so that businesses can continue their activity normally, or, what is the same, do nothing. The PSOE is here, he wants to modify a regulation and a law, and he mounts an impressive mess by putting thousands of jobs at risk. Between April and December 2019 and Junta tried to dialogue, through numerous avenues, with the minister of the Ecological Transition, with the Secretary of State of the Environment, and at the same time held several meetings with the sector -- a very concerned sector, I insist -- since April 2019. The ignorance of the Spanish Government was long until, at last, two months after the last attempt to connect with them, they respond -- the Ministry of Ecological Transition -- with a letter -- by the way, an ordinary letter, on paper, that comes out on a 20th day in Madrid and arrives in Galicia; first it goes through the press, because it filters on the press and then reaches the German Government; to my understanding of something very ugly and manifest and absolute disloyalty-- In that letter, the Ministry ensured that the reform of the regulation was stopped, while it was also recognized in that same letter that there were meetings with affected to explain to them what such a change of regulation would be; that is, a total contradiction. So we, then, no longer trust the announcement of paralysis, and we were right, because that restrictive proposal has now reactivated through the inclusion of article 18 in the draft law on climate change and energy transition, driven by the Ministry of Ecological Transition, which -- as we say -- is ecological intransigence, energy intransigence and, in this case, absolute industrial intransigence to Galicia. What time are we? The phase in the law is in the speeches, in the Congress of Members, with very little scope already, but in time to review points 3 and 4 of Article 18 of that law, which incorporate -- as I say -- a change in the rules of the law of the back and that would, in a very hurtful way, affect the chain of the sea industry. Today, the conclusion is that the Government of Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias maintain the process and uncertainty regarding the duration of concessions in public maritime-terrestrial domain. Legal security is broken and there is enormous uncertainty for all these industries and all those buildings -- I insist -- that not all of them are related to that sector. In addition to that, as I say, you reactivated this procedure and this amendment of the regulation in its full state of alarm -- which we believe is unethical -- in a rule that is not that of the back -- which we also think is very unclear -- and without dialogue with the sector, that is, by lying, because they promised they would talk to them. They said they were going to stop a regulation, but they're doing it another way so they think we don't know. But we do know; and those who know the most and the most concerned are the ones affected, which are the dependents of the sea-industrial chain. I insist, they're trying to pull out the back door a reform that specifically affects Galicia's coast. That law of climate change had nothing more and nothing less than 758 amendments in Madrid, the Congress of Deputies. In these cases, close to 100 of the People's Parliamentary Group, and in these 100, is included the amendment to Article 18 of the Act, which proposes the abolition, at least, of points 3 and 4, because, as I said, the consequences of that paragraph transcend beyond, interfering with the Law on the Back and the time limits of its regulation. On the part of the BNG is the presentation of the amendment concerning the deletion of Article 18, but of the PSOE and Podemos, nothing. And of us with a Welsh minister, Yolanda Díaz, who said in April -- he also said it in October 2019 -- that it was "a law with a Madrid look." Madrid's look is what she has, because she's drawn the Madrid look, she's stayed in Madrid and she's totally behind Galicia, because the only thing she's doing as Minister of Employment is destroying jobs in Galicia, with the total complicity of the Socialist Party. So by the PSdeG party there were mayors who tried to make motions, who made some amends, some additions; but it remained on wet paper, it did not come true at all. And the German Socialist Members in Congress say the same thing as the Secretary of State, Hugo Morán, who says that Article 18 does not in any way alter the provisions of the current legislation. But that's not true, it does change the current regulations. In this Parliament, Members of the PSdEG do not know, do not answer; they look the other way. In December, in the 8th Commission we reached an agreement with the Galician Nationalist Block to request the withdrawal of Article 18 and the Socialist Party abstained and did not manifest itself, arguing legislation and theories of the Levante, of the Mediterranean, that nothing has to do with the coastal reality of Galicia. It's a law, as I said, very harmful to this sea chain-- - Industry. Article 12 is also harmful to the automotive industry. We're not going to go into that now, but with two articles of that law you're getting rid of nearly 20,000 jobs in Galicia. It's an absolute ideology that breaks Galicia, as I say, and the law, of energy transition, has nothing, it's an absolute intransigence. We brought this proposal to plenary, because we saw that in December, after that agreement, nothing was done, and we believe that this process must be permanently disabled. We believe it is very important to disable this process -- I insist -- because it's going to affect directly and it's going to do a lot of damage to the sea sector. It is very clear what we are asking for, the abolition of Article 18, and we believe that you have to change your mind if you want to defend this sector, the marine industry chain, and save 3,000 jobs. In addition, it is a sector that increased its exports by 80% between 2009 and 2019; that is, it is a sector, in addition, that with the pandemic it resists, that it keeps, that it is working and that it is part of the future of our autonomous community, as it has been, in addition, a very important sector and a fundamental pillar for Galicia. I have little time, president, but I'd like to remember some of the things you said when we were already alerting about this, because now it seems like we're all going along. At least the Bloc and the People's Party reached an agreement in Commission 8th, but you said it was a law with which the People's Party sought only to defend the interests of Ence, who sought to frighten, which only affected 300 facilities with concessions affected by this regulatory change... i.e. again by putting fallacies and lies in that argument, and the People's Party of Galicia, always in the same place, and, moreover, with reason, because it is the sector itself -- and you would talk to it -- which really requires that this article 18 be withdrawn, which is totally harmful to the industrial sector of the sea-industrial chain of Galicia. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u141	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a problem that, beyond the political demagogy some intend to do, is a rather complex issue. By the way, I don't know if Mrs. Egerique understands it in its scope, because she said here a number of things that don't match and don't sympathize with reality. And in that sense, it requires some clarification, which I will try to do within my limitations -- like a pedagogue that I am -- obviously, lots of them. But first I want to make something clear, on the other hand, obvious. The PSdEG will not support any legislative or any kind of measure that goes against the economy on our coast or against the value chain of the marine food industry sector, which is of enormous importance not only economically but also culturally, because it is part of our identity and tradition. We are obviously in favour of protecting ourselves, defending ourselves and encouraging our coastal economy: conservation, aquaculture, seafood, etc., and all the activity associated with these sectors, which, of course, does not make the Union of Galicia. And in line with that, if you accept the point-by-point vote, we will vote in favour of point 2 of your proposal. What we're not going to protect is demagogy and irresponsibility consistent in that for political reasons it is openly disreported at our coast from the self-government itself, which should do exactly the opposite. As far as regulation is concerned, the temporary limitation of coastal concessions is not, Mrs. Egerique, a whim of anyone, but a legal conquest that has reached a socialist government in 1988, approving the Back Law, which has established a 30-year period for concessions based on consideration of the public utility of our coastal spaces, which should be able to be enjoyed throughout the world and not only by the few who historically built in those spaces. [[Applause]] In any case, this 1988 law was not made in vacuum, but it was therefore legislated to the mandate of Articles 132.2 and 45 of the Constitution and also of European legislation; by the way, it was already compulsory to incorporate it into our legal system. The 1988 Law -- I say -- set a generic period of thirty years. We speak of all kinds of concessions, of housing, but also of economic holdings ranging from chiringuitos -- typical case of the Mediterranean -- to our canteens, going through many other types of situations. Those thirty years of the Back Law, computed since 1988, came in 2018, which is why in 2013 Rajoy's Government -- that is, its -- focused on the problem in a completely captivating and contrary to public interest, through a reform of the Back Law in which the original term was increased to as theoretically as much as possible for seventy-five years, consistent with the State Heritage Act 2003, the Aznar Government, in case you didn't realize it. Thus Article 66.2 of the applicable Cost Act states that: "The period shall be the period determined in the corresponding title which shall in no case exceed seventy-five years". So far all right, but from there begin the problems, because the legal technique employed and the conjunction of that law and the 2014 Back Regulation seemed to open up the possibility that the concessions would last longer than the seventy-five years laid down in Article 93.3 of the State Heritage Act, approved -- as I say -- by the Aznar Government, which states that the maximum duration of the concessions, including the extensions, would not exceed seventy-five years, unless another minor was established in the special rules that were applied -- or less, not the larger--. I mean -- and this I have to highlight -- the State Heritage Act, with an American clarity, is already saying since 2003 that public concessions cannot exceed seventy-five years, including their extensions. That's not what I said, nor did I, did the government of Aznar. Obviously, no special law such as that of costs could in any way establish a higher deadline for an obvious, clear and meridian question of regulatory coherence, and thus reflected it both in the Council of State, in its report on the draft regulation of the Law of Back, such as the Law of the State, in successive reports -- by the way, they are available on the web for anyone who wants to consult them -- which they have concluded in a final report of December 2018, which was taxing -- that the only possible interpretation of the maximum duration of a concession, including its extensions, is seventy-five years, because so I told the Aznar Heritage Act. But beware, this does not mean, at all, that a new concession cannot be granted, requesting that new concession when those seventy-five years end, in their case, if it is in accordance with the legislation. Please note that if we add to the year 1988 seventy-five years to the year 2063, in which we will surely all be bald. In any case, let's go to Article 18, which you say is that you want to delete or substantially modify. This about deleting or modifying an entire article is an example of maximum undefinedness that ultimately leads to absurdity, because you have to tell yourself exactly what you want to do: delete it or modify it substantially. If what they want is to modify it, they'll have to clarify in what way they want it to be modified, which they don't do at all or by any means. Note that we are facing a four-point article. Sections 1 and 2 basically state that for planning and managing our coast we will have to take into account the impact of climate change, something obvious that would not deserve any kind of debate. In fact, you do not refer, anywhere on your initiative, to those first two paragraphs, which, on the other hand, refer to existing regulations and also approved by PP governments; only expressly refer to concessions paragraphs 3 and 4. The 3 states that the management of securities in the public domain in the maritime-terrestrial sector will be taken into account factors such as the state and evolution of ecosystems, climatic hydromorphological conditions and coastal dynamics, as well as the accumulated pressure that each stretch of the coast supports. It seems obvious that the opposition to those factors being taken into consideration would be madness, because they are factors of the most elementary common sense. So you propose the deletion or modification of an entire article, but you refer exclusively to it -- it is said, because I also don't say -- in paragraph 4 of this article, which leads me to think that you haven't even read the article, because, if you read it, your proposal would be, with complete certainty, the deletion or modification of paragraph 4, not of the whole article, as you are doing. Article 18.4 of the Climate Change Bill states that: "The time-limits for the occupation of the public domain of the sea-terrestrial shall be calculated in any case since its granting and shall include all its extensions without exceeding the time-limits laid down in the Law on Costs and in the Law on the Heritage of Public Administrations, and that administrative acts rendered in breach of the provisions of this article shall be null and void." I mean, something that doesn't at all alter the current legislation. The only thing that says in Article 18.4, which is what you are discussing, even if you do not explicitly say it, is that the time limits cannot exceed the maximum allowed by previous laws, which you yourself have approved. Not us, yourself, who are seventy-five years old, both in the State Heritage Act of the Aznar Government and in the amendment of the Law of Back by the Government of Mariano Rajoy. And he also says that this seventy-five-year term has to be calculated from the beginning, which is more than logical and obvious, that it is also exactly what article 93.3 of the Aznar State Heritage Act says. From that point on, you talk about a hundred potentially affected companies and the loss of 2,900 jobs. But then they say that out of those 100 are already 29 people who have or will have problems with the renewal of their concession. I don't know what you'll be like as futurologists, but they've been saying the same year, and what I can tell you is that what was, almost certainly, the most complicated case from the point of view of the occupation of the public domain, which was the fish factory of Tres Mares, in Liris, was recently -- a few months ago -- renewed by the Ministry of Ecological Transition until the year 2056. That is, the most complex case has already extended until 2056; it will be one of those cases that say they will close, which seriously questions the credibility of their predictions and their professionalism as futurologists, because it is a 1969 fishhouse, when there was no democracy and environmental law did not exist in this country, to which the concession was extended until 2056. I don't know if I'll be in this world in 2056, I hope that yes, obviously -- let me have a sense of self-conservation -- but I'm afraid several of those present here -- I don't want it, but I'm afraid -- they won't be in this world in 2056. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] What is certain is that the Tres Mares Pisciffery can remain in its location until 2056; a fact that consistently, by means of the facts, its claims about the thousands of jobs that will be lost and that the left minister of the Ecological Transition wants to be loaded. Even in the year 2056, the Tres Mares fishworks -- by following that example -- could ask for a new concession, and we'll see -- those we're still here then --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u144	...they give it to her, but she can ask for it. It's over. We don't oppose any improvement. -- which, of course, is possible -- in Article 18.4 as, for example, suggested by the Council of State: changing acts dictated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u145	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u146	...for acts that are said, but that has a transcendence or would have a frankly small transcendence, as you could argue if you had more time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. I hope that in 2056 we are all here; it is my wish for all. I suppose I share. [[Laughter]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you still want it? Well, I'm glad. [[The President of the Bureau addressed a Member.]] I'm for you, too, eh! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[An honourable Member: I am for you, no!]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Just two months ago, on 15 December, the Committee on Fisheries approved a non-legislative proposal by the Galician Nationalist Block with the following text: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Greece to request the Government of the State, in particular the Ministry of Ecological Transition, the abolition of Article 18 of the current draft climate change law, as well as consensus on the marine sector. -the German industry shall amend the Law of Back in respect of the validity of the administrative concessions on the shores of the sea". As you can see, the People's Group must think that, by approving it twice, we will be more attentive, because now, just two months later, they are presenting a practically identical proposal to which BNG had presented in December, except in fact, that we were clear and round: suppression! of the article. You two already doubt it. They don't know if to suppress it, if to modify it...; they don't know what to do. It's a shame, gentlemen! It's a shame that some things approve of them twice or more, especially if they are to sue other administrations, and other things, usually the ones referred to in the performances that they have to carry out at Junta, they never approve them. That's a shame! [[Applause]] And we've already said since that the Climate Change Bill -- which, just now, in fact, is at the stage of discussion of partial amendments -- has caused and continues to cause concern in our country's marine-industry fabric; a sector that is fundamental in Galicia -- it has been said -- and which, in addition, is generally -- generally! -- a sustainable activity. The collection in this article 18 of the bill represents, in fact, an amendment to the law of the back and causes an important... you say so and I say so. Then see who wins, because I say so! [[An honourable Member denies it with his head and Mrs Pérez Fernández also asserts it with his head.]] Of course, but I'll prove it, I want to prove it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I repeat, the collection in article 18 of the bill represents, in fact, an amendment to the Law on the Back and causes an important discrepancy between the vision of the mar-industry chain and that of the Ministry itself on the change in the validity of the administrative concessions on the shores of the sea. The strategic weight of these industries for the Greek economy, both in number of jobs and in socio-economic importance, requires certainty and requires maximum legal security to enhance the value of the chain of the maritime-food sector, which would hardly have an alternative in the regions where it is settled; and of course, before any modification -- we said it from the very first moment -- it needs dialogue with all those affected. It is precisely this social, labour and economic relevance of the companies located on the coast and their refusal to change their coasts, through a draft law on climate change, that is what forced the Ministry itself to issue a communiqué last June, committed to counting on the Greek sector in the reform of the law on the coasts. But that commitment faded with time and, above all, disappeared with the different public manifestations of the direct or indirect leaders of the bill. They created more confusion, more insecurity, more fear and more concern all this time and, of course, indeed, the ministry itself and its collaborators have counted on the invaluable collaboration of the Galician Council itself, which has throughout this time transmitted its own version of the bill through data that nothing has to do with reality and intentionally mixing what collects the binding legislation on administrative concessions in the maritime-terrestrial public domain to the mar-industry sector. -- mixing, I say -- with other activities and facilities that, of course, the People's Party wants to keep in the creeks, particularly in Pontevedra. The BNG posture has always been the same: First. The Climate Change Bill is not the place to regulate the duration of concessions. It should be done in the specific regulation, in the back, because the duality of laws is not adjusted and it is, as we are seeing, a focus of problems. Second. We defend that the companies that need the sea -- those that need the sea! -- continue in the public domain of the sea-terrestrial, but we must distinguish those who need it from those who do not need it; and then, indeed, we must start by changing things. Mrs. Egerique, it's not thousands! -- I told you in the Commission, it's not thousands! Third. The confusion is not new, the confusion is created, precisely -- there has been some allusion here -- by the change of the 1988 Back Law which the People's Party carried out in the State in 2013, and which created the figure of extraordinary extensions; extensions that increased the enlargements already envisaged in the concession and that, in most cases, between the initial and the enlargements could reach an average of thirty years; it was extended, in that amendment, up to a maximum of seventy-five. And, of course, no longer passed Law 2/2013, amending the 1988 Back Law, began to apply for extraordinary extensions and began to arrive from Madrid resolutions with up to forty years of enlargement, beginning to count -- beginning to count!-- since they were requested. In some cases I would even dare to say that they didn't even ask for it, depending on who it was, because Rajoy, magnanimously, already granted it to them -- Rajoy today with much bigger problems than the amendment of the Law of Back. [[Applause]] The arrival of Isabel Tejerina to the Ministry of Fisheries in 2014 and, indeed, the regulation of this amendment to the Law of Back changed the criterion, and the resolutions began to reach 40 years of enlargement, but counting from the original concession -- from the original concession!--. Fourth. The BNG presented amendments to this bill in Congress, proposing that, in the famous case of article 18, it be deleted; not that it be deleted or modified, or that they look at, or that they give it back; not that it be deleted. Fifth. For us the fundamental problem is that the competences of coastal legislation continue to be dry, and that means we have to stop a regulation that only aims at uniformizing all the territories and which does not take into account the social, economic and environmental reality of our country. The most obvious example is still alive -- right? -- in the very modification of the Law of Back, and it's the situation of the traditional coastal nuclei, which are still affected. Sixth. The change you want to make is that any activity on the coast is harmful, because you understand -- that proposal -- that all territories are equal. Seventh. Mr. Aranguena, the Council itself -- not the BNG -- considered that in article 18, paragraph 3, it proposed -- and I read textually -- "it would be appropriate to include it in the Law on the Back." I read it in Spanish for you to understand me perfectly and there is no doubt about it: "It would be convenient to include it in the Law of Back". No, no, I read it as the Council of State wrote. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And on paragraph 4, Mr. Arangüena, the Council of State itself admits that it is not clear -- now allow me -- and that it sets a different criterion from that laid down by the Back Law, and therefore -- and it is now textual -- : "It would be appropriate to introduce changes to the rules of the coasts, carrying out the amendments that are deemed relevant in Law 2/2013, in order to prevent the overlap of different regulatory standards from generating interpretative doubts contrary to legal certainty." Council of State ruled. Well, ultimately, the Government of the State should take care of the sector; it should understand that the coast of the whole Spanish State is not the same; and it should take good note of the dictates of the Council of State. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, would be much more interesting than, rather than copying the initiatives of others, and even diluting them, if you dare, once and for all, to request from the State the powers relating to public maritime-terrestrial domination. We'd better go! It would be so much better if we were to leave! Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u150	For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u151	I understand that, for the Socialist Party, before Sánchez and then Galicia. It's still in yours. Mrs Pérez, this GNP was registered in September and we are bringing it to plenary today. I said in my explanatory statement, in the first intervention, that we betrayed her because, after December, nothing has been done and we are already at the door of the adoption of that law. Mr. Aranguena speaks of me not knowing anything, as it is very common, as he always says in his speeches. Don't offend me, I always say. It doesn't offend me at all. You make me for ten minutes a very correct intervention on the right, on the Law of Back, longing for the 1980s of the Socialist Party -- that no longer exists, now is the Socialist Party of Sánchez, what we will do to you! --. And you're also talking about our non-law proposition, but I'm also talking about the amendments tabled to the law at the Congress of Deputies. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you can consult the Congress of Deputies website and see exactly what the People's Parliamentary Group has presented, and know whether the amendment of Article 3 and 4 is requested if the deletion of Article 18 is requested... We ask that Article 18 be amended in points 3 and 4 as I said. You can consult the amendment exactly and read it. Besides, are you going to decide it here? We want all of us from Galicia to support this joint decision, Mr. Orange, let me speak, please. [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I say you can consult the amendment and know exactly what is required and what has happened. You tell me a specific example of an industry that is renewing its concession before that law is passed. So you have no problem doing that before that law is changed, of course yes, before the law is changed. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Don't make me labyrinths to try to confuse ourselves now in what we're asking for, that we have very clear. As I said, since April 2019 it's very clear. Welcome to the Nationalist Block! Welcome to this request! Because they were talking about what we were going to do would be scare us. I'm telling you clearly, Mrs Pérez. In this rostrum and in this Parliament it has been mentioned that it was essential to make this amendment by Ence. Clearly, you wanted to legislate and you wanted to make an amendment to the regulation fixed and obsessed with Ence. And what they set up was a monumental mess with the sea-industry chain. What they mounted was a monumental mess. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That's demagogy. There is no doubt that we must act against climate change and in favour of an energy transition. But this is more of a law -- as I say -- of energy betrayal, of betrayal to Galicia, exactly. I'll give you an example. Do you know the case of Paquito in Boiro? He has an infrastructure that he's going to be forced to completely modify all of his work, with the costs he has, with the change in his jobs. Talk to them, and interpret the law. Because it's their lawyers and advisers who tell them, we don't tell them the Members of the People's Party. It's the sea-industry prison advisors themselves and the jurists who deal with these issues who say they're going to have a lot of problems and that in the future they won't be able to work as they're doing now. And all by an article in a law of climate change, to change through the back door that law of back. Exactly, Mr. Orange, you can give me all the kinds of rights you want, but that's exactly what you want. [[Applause]] And now we confirm, in addition, that we were in the right -- as always -- when we said that the intention of amending the regulation with that actual decree was not paralysed. He wasn't paralyzed. Now get into the Climate Change Act. And Minister Ribera and her ministry spoke of paralyzing the reform of the Rule of the Law of Back and have also deceived their own mayors and spokesmen of the Socialist Party in these coastal councils; that, to see!, they have to join them, because they think exactly what we are saying and that the Nationalist Block Galego is saying, that you have to remove that article from the law because, if not, it will be totally lethal and harmful to our chain of sea industry. This is another stick on the wheel of the Welsh industry -- as I said before, Mr. Aranguena --. First it's Sánchez and then it's Galicia. It's like this with the energy sector, with the automotive industry, and with the sea-industry chain, we're in the same way with that ministry that's going to do us a lot of damage in Galicia. This rule can lead to a string that, in addition to -- as I said -- is good, it's working, it's supported the pandemic, it holds thousands -- yes, thousands -- of families in the coastal municipalities of Galicia, and which is a fundamental pillar for our economy and for our livelihood. Therefore, recapitulate and tell Members of the Socialist Party in Madrid and their government in Sánchez and We can withdraw this article from the Climate Change Act. We all support this initiative and note that from Galicia we defend Galicia and that, Mr Aranguena, we do not directly defend Sánchez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. We move on to the next point, to point 4.2. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the presentation by the Italian Government, before the end of the second session of 2020, of a plan of action and cultural reactivation for the year 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u153	This motion for a non-law was presented with a self-amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and another amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u154	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u155	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. Today I wanted to begin my speech by sincerely thanking the Culture Counsellor, Román Rodríguez -- it's a pity he's not here anymore -- that meeting he had this Saturday in the City of Culture with the president of the Royal Galaga Academy, with the president of the Galician Culture Council and with the president of the Royal Galician Academy of Fine Arts. More than anything because, in fact, after that press release which has been released to the media, I understand that today this GNP on Greek culture is finally going to be approved. I understand it'll be like this. Of course, I understand that you are going to vote affirmatively on all this, more than anything I'm going to explain right now. The councillor stated this Saturday that everything was already planned for our culture, everything is planned: that the scope of the Culture Reactivation Plan will be expanded with a new injection of 23 million in this first quarter -- that is what we ask -- that we will launch new lines of support for professionals -- that is what we ask -- that will activate initiatives for the collection of European funds that include a hub of creative industries -- we also ask -- and that meetings with different sectoral agents are planned -- we also ask --. They also say in that press release that the Greek Government in the cultural field has made so many efforts that it has put in place thousands of initiatives -- thousands! --, that reprogrammed shows -- yes, of course, nothing that didn't make other administrations, everything has to be said -- that promoted safe culture -- of course, showing some incoherence, because to talk about culture being safe and then closing cultural spaces doesn't really fit too well, considering that it's also few or the only community that keeps cultural spaces closed --. And no longer to move forward in the Council press release, more than anything to do a spoiler to the spokesperson of the People's Party, I end up underlining this announcement this Saturday that now they clearly announce that this cultural reactivation plan -- I left there, I had to have it here -- ended on December 31, 2020. [[Mrs. Díaz Varela indicates by hand from the rostrum the seat of her chair in the sitting room.]] Clearly, clearly! And now it turns out that it's a living, dynamic plan that comes into a new phase, a living, dynamic plan that comes into a new phase. By the way, one question must also be clarified, and they say that this plan was meant for culture of 26 million. And we have to repeat to them that no, that the 26 million were for the cultural, tourist and Xacobeo sector. For culture it was exactly 10.6 million. And then they say it was a little bit of a budget, but the reality is that it was 10.6 million. Despite the fact that I would advise this weekend -- as we say -- we also want to explain our PNL -- which, as we see, is more than timely -- and also to nuance some aspects. What we're asking for is speed -- because we're already late --, resources -- more resources -- dialogue with the sector, evaluation and planning. And we start with the last one. We're talking about planning because the reality is that it gives the feeling that the government on this issue is working with quite improvisation. And we're afraid this strategy will end up wasting resources. And why would we say that? Because any plans that are being put forward should be evaluated to verify that, in fact, the measures implemented have given the expected result and that that is why it is necessary to continue with them. And, on the other hand, if there were measures that did not achieve the expected results, then there will be those resources allocated to other new ones. How do you do that? This is done by a serious and rigorous evaluation process and also by consulting the industry, industry, creators and creators. Let's remember that this plan, when it was introduced -- a little less than a year ago -- was not well received by any entity in the Greek sector. On the contrary, what he received was a loud public protest. That's why we're surprised they're talking about the continuation of a plan, because we still don't know what worked and what didn't. So, the questions are, do we talk about a new plan?, do we keep what there was? And in the case of keeping it, for example, what happens? What happens, for example, to dance and the arts of movement -- the great forgotten in that plan last year --? Are there measures already planned or will we have to wait -- and Thursday we take you to the Commission -- to the integral dance plan? All this is what we mean when we talk about improvisation and planning failure, is that they join the previous failure of a necessary diagnosis. We're also talking about resources. Let's note that you're talking about the start of 23 million euros in this first quarter of the year. Logically, if the budget of the Culture Council for the whole year is about 90 million euros and we divide the year into four quarters -- which are the ones that have -- they account. We don't talk about it. We're talking about a very different thing, which is duplication of resources, which is 20 million -- probably more than 20 million --. But we understand that these must be extraordinary, extraordinary millions, and not the recipes of always with new names, which is what happened last year. Because, of course, would you be able to quantify the cost of the new ad hoc measures for this crisis -- just those, the extraordinary ones, not those that have a new name but which are the same --? I'm sure you don't. We move on to direct help. When we call for extraordinary measures that include direct support for culture, we do not refer to those aids to self-employed people you speak of and which you propose, but to help cover general expenses related to loss of wealth-19. Even today, the board reported that it had injected 2.2 million to more than a thousand culture professionals. Of course, but in the same information he warned that in all cases they were autonomous owners, business owners or sector establishments. It's strange to us, and much, that lack of knowledge in the sector. First, because you have to take their particulars into account. Second, because, like others -- like hospitality or tourism -- they're not just suffering the consequences of the crisis, they're directly damaged because, for health reasons, if you've stopped them from working -- something we're not going to discuss here, but the question is that you've stopped them from working --. Third -- and most importantly -- because our cultural fabric is made up of a large number of workers and workers, creators and creators, subject to a great -- vast -- seasonality and temporality that makes them unable to meet those requirements of their help. The point is they don't meet them, but they want to eat too. [[Applause]] In this way, we call for direct assistance in the way that has been done with other sectors or other territories, such as, for example, in Catalonia, where there have been direct help to workers and cultural workers; or there have also been opening lines, for example, for suspension insurance of functions. What it's about is ensuring the survival of those cultural structures that we have today -- and of their workers and workers -- for, once we've overcome this health crisis, we've had a very similar scenario to what we've had so far. That's what we're talking about has recently been warned by the actresses and the actors of Greece, who criticize that this reactivation plan was directed solely to companies but did not take them into account; or even New Scene Galicia, who a few days ago called for direct help so that companies don't have to continue to be indebted because of the continuing suspensions and delays -- always subject to a terrible uncertainty --. We feel so repetitive, that's right. But, of course, we'll have to be until this is solved. Please dialogue with the sector to assess the extraordinary measures that have been put in place and to warn of new needs. And from there, of course, you will have to decide. That's why they have the people's mandate. But find out who was pointed and who wasn't pointed. Did the new open lines work? We need to know. Of the many meetings that we have held with the people of the world of culture, we know that some of them have to continue, but we also know others that they do not. Does she know, too? Because then you don't understand that continuation of that plan. You don't know anything yet about Xacobeo, the great whitebird of the Galician Union for the cultural sector. The crisis in culture would disappear by the year 2021. Everything was confident of a great event that would no longer be expected. We've warned you. And now what? What do we do now? The Director of Tourism of Galicia, Mrs Nava Castro, recently stated that they have to change their plans. Really, do you have to change your plans? Didn't they really expect the health crisis to last too during 2021 and have to change plans? There was no plan "b", was there nothing planned? You must adapt... please be quiet, that I didn't interrupt them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] What we are asking is that they adapt all the funds devoted to initiatives that were part of the Xacobeo 2021 and reorient them to new proposals. Do not reschedule just for the next few months, because that would mean they're going to saturate a calendar and it won't solve any problems, quite the contrary. In short -- and I'm done -- what we want with this non-law proposition is that the Government of Greece clearly commits itself to the cultural and creative industry of our country in this first quarter by putting into practice the extraordinary measures to develop throughout the year, which must respond to the real needs of an exhausted and unanticipated sector; with the duplication of these 10.6 million of the year 2020 including new resources -- and when we say "news" are those that have been shown to be ineffective -- and, of course, by enabling a specific aid line. For now, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Compasses Zas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u157	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we can stay calm. The Holy Year opened the first miracle. And, as in a divine teletransport exercise, it was produced through the interviews of the Council of Culture, Education and University. I also want to share the good news that Mrs. Díaz had already announced and that we saw this Saturday guided by that star fled, which is not fleeting, from the heavenly vault of San Caetano: the injection to culture. At the moment -- that's yes -- we have to say it's just an ad, nothing more. Or yes, something else: an ad and a photo, an institutional photo that at all represents interaction with agents and cultural sectors, very welcome, of course, but we understand that at least enough. Because the credibility of this announcement, exposed in the Council of Culture's window, will become true when you really look at the feature of the dialogue with the sector -- direct dialogue -- and you move in addition to the one who gives the truth, the most true reality, which is the one published in the Official Journal of Galicia. Because culture doesn't need ads, it doesn't need any ads anymore. What you need are real commitments by the German Government, suitable for a situation of extreme difficulty that you are living, first, by the impact of the pandemic -- obviously -- and, moreover, by the inaction of the Government. The announcement, curiously -- we were quite surprised by it -- it had little impact on the press. Little was the effort this time to bring this important information to society and, above all, to the agents and sectors involved, with which, again -- and by the way, we contrast it these days -- no one from the Council has contacted. It is another proof of the irrelevance that their content is subjected to -- culture, ultimately -- as well as of the repeated separation of the forms proper to the culture of dialogue. In view of the questionable management of the current pandemic vaccination campaign by the Union, we don't know if that injection that says the holder will be the true vaccine that needs the Greek cultural sectors, nor will it be inoculated by skin, oral or muscle. They obviously know that this is not a ballad, because we know that one or another choice has a greater capacity for action, intervention and disease resolution. The Greek culture already needs, at once, as a matter of urgency, an injection of a real direct, cross-sectional, efficient and effective rescue plan to secure its future. We say it repeatedly in the BNG Parliamentary Group in this House, and for the time being, we have to conclude that it has not yet arrived -- in order, by the way, to meet the first year since the beginning of the pandemic --. Let me make a quick entry into the search for the recent memory of the work done in this direction by our parliamentary group in this House. We said this in the middle of October 20th, recalling the proposals already collected in 2018, before the pandemic, in the diagnosis of the Greek culture that the Galician Council of Culture, in which it proposed, for example, to increase the public budget to 1% in the next four years -- we are reaching the limit -- for it rising to 1.5% in the next 10 years. It's a goal -- it said this diagnosis of the Council of Culture -- consistent and consistent with the cultural approaches to employment and Galician GDP. In that same full memory we recall the data of the barometer of the culture of Galicia, which had just published also the Council of Culture of Galicia, referred to the month of July, after analyzing that first wave of the pandemic and in which it alerted the grave impact of the crisis of coward-19, which placed the culture -- it says -- "in a context of struggle for its own survival." We will therefore require them to become aware of the vitality, diversity and also of the specificity of our culture. We call on this House to declare culture as a good of first necessity, supporting a first initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We proposed to go further and develop specific public policies to support creators and creators -- to that process of creation that is always absolutely relegated to the thought of this government -- and of course also to all the professional sectors of Greek culture, to the fundamental maintenance of the structures of our cultural companies. And we also invite them to ask the Spanish State -- something that they like very much -- the reduction in cultural VAT from 10% to 4%. It was not possible to count on the positive vote of the People's Party. On November 25, we went back to this House to ask the Government -- eight months after the beginning of the pandemic -- because the cultural sector was still not present in the priority strategy of the path of cultural reactivation. The Culture Council also published at that time the statistical set-up in the cultural field -- in October -- and concluded that for the cultural sector it is expected that in the next few months -- and we are in them -- the impact would be much more severe than for the whole economy. Again, in the past month of December, closing the first session, we brought back to this House a motion for a proposal -- nine months after the pandemic --, with the pandemic and the consequences of the pandemic on the back, which would only multiply questions about the cultural sectors, which weighed like wolves. And in that motion we presented 11 basic proposals to respond to a plan of reactivation and cultural impulse that guaranteed the right to culture, to meet, ultimately, what was being the demands of the sector in a time of maximum urgency, according to the industry's competitors, we will reiterate it again and again in the Commission on Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation. But it didn't seem important to them either, what the audience said and who picked up the Galician Nationalist Block on that motion. And the vote of the People's Party was again negative. The negative vote on this motion by the BNG, as well as the whole proactive spirit in cultural matters, is always a veto proposed to culture by the People's Party. I remember an invitation and a few questions that left us one of our audiences in this Reactivation Commission, Carlos Ares: "Why not make this legislation the one about care, the one about the reactivation of our culture and their workers and workers?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Of course, it was a rapidly frustrated invitation with the approval of the budgets of the Galician Union, where we saw that they only grew from 0.63% to 0.68%, far away from that 1% since 2018 that has led us to demand the Galician Council of Culture. We're in front of a council with an increase below average and where, as was expected, the higher rate of spending and investment is reflected in education. It is also a project that presents an absolutely routine inertia, a huge lack of impulse -- with which it means the inability to anticipate and respond that helps to compensate for the extreme impact the pandemic has in the cultural sectors -- which is already imperiling its future. However, the Government and the Council enjoy a very important budget increase for Agadic, for the Galaga Agency of Cultural Industries. But they still haven't been able to explain, either to sectors or to this House today, that they're going to address no more than EUR 9.6 million from the REACT-EU funds. The answer really came in a very agile way in our own budget splits. Most, 6 million of these 9.6 million euros, go to the chapter, like not!, of works. I support the dynamization of the construction sector, yes. Of course what we don't see is direct support for the Greek cultural sectors. Where is Agadic's ability to act according to its purposes, principles and functions to vertebrate, to sustain, the business, cultural, industrial fabric? It might be thought that this announcement of last Saturday is the result of the evaluation of that reactivation plan that at that time, last year, was cultural and tourist, we didn't forget it. But we are not aware, although we have already asked for it -- and indeed, in the middle of December, Mrs. Egerique said that no evaluation plans were still in place because she had not yet finished her application, which ended on December 31 --. There is therefore no record of any evaluation made for that reactivation plan. And, of course, we don't want to believe that they're going to give an assessment of that pair of slides -- actually four, because one is covered and the other is counter-ported -- that they gave us to work on the reactive commission. That is, nothing positive or enlightening can deduce from this action. And well, they suddenly think that all of this can disappear, by the enchanting art of an improvised headline, with an announcement that acts as a mirrorism in the cultural desert. And by the way, we've already advanced that we also make the effort to think that the timeline of this new one, consistent with this whole or this point on the agenda, responds to chance, not to a proposed causality. We've already finished reviewing the reading of your discreet announcement and we've verified the happy coincidence of several of the initiatives already registered by the BNG in the past few months. Forced from BNG for recognizing his lack of leadership and inability to follow closely, very closely, our work, as well as the necessity and usefulness of our proposals. But I assure you they're not ours, we won't believe it. These are the proposals that directly bring the sector, which is why it is urgent that they take care of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u159	Finally, we agree with the Socialist Group's resolution on this PNL -- also amended --. We are grateful that the amendment is incorporated -- therefore, it becomes a transaction -- because it was very important for us to incorporate these two direct support aids into the creative process -- i.e. the creator, the creator, the author, the author -- as well as the maintenance of professional cultural structures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u161	I'm done, Mr. President. Please, Mr. Councillors, get your hands on the job because at BNG we're very attentive to the screen, and to meet that first term they announce in the first quarter of their announcement there's already something fair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u163	It won't be like losing that dose of the advertised vaccine so essential for culture and going to inject in other sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u164	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor Mr. Roder Tato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon to all of you. The truth is that it would not be too much for the Socialist Party in Galicia to have asked for a plan to reactivate the central government at the time when all the professional sectors demanded it, when, in addition, they urgently demanded it. And indeed, in the face of this inaction, at that slowness of the Central Government, Galicia was the first autonomous community in Spain to put in place a reactivation plan for the cultural sectors. Galicia already has a cultural reactivation plan -- with an investment, so far, of 26 million euros -- which has developed around 4,500 concrete actions. The current context is not the same as it was when it was thought and developed the reactivation plan for the cultural sectors. Therefore, neither the same tools nor the same formulas can be used for that initiative. Junta has just moved the new plans for support to the cultural sector to this quarter -- which I thought well that, following this meeting and Mrs Díaz's intervention, they would withdraw this LNP --. So this plan broadens the scope of the reactivation plan with a new injection of 23 million euros for the first quarter of the year 2021. And the account cannot be made of the total budget of the board, adding current expenses, and then dividing into four quarters. Therefore, the Socialist Party is back late in its applications and, as it has just patented, the Union continues to support culture unconditionally. I think it's good to remember and remember what was the context of Galicia and the whole world when the plan of reactivation for the cultural sectors of Galicia began to be developed. Spain went through its first state of alarm, the population lived in strict confinement, and cultural activity suffered almost total paralysis. And it was an extraordinary situation of great ignorance and uncertainty in which it was necessary to give a quick answer that would help to address the immediate needs of thousands of Greek families linked to the cultural sector. In this framework, as we said, Galicia put in place a strategy, a reactivation strategy, a roadmap that was taken to the Council on June 30, which was presented by the Council of Culture in this House and discussed in this Parliament on May 13, and which was expanded with new measures at the Council on June 5. In total, as we said, 26.4 million euros -- as you put it today and on other occasions in this House --. The truth is that dialogue if there was it, and also a constant dialogue with the various agents of our community, who were invited to actively participate in the design of that reactivation project. They had the opportunity to participate in all those cultural agents who wanted it. Therefore, this plan, with measures grouped into different axes of action, has very clear specific objectives: to maintain employment, to promote the consumption of cultural products, to promote measures to promote creativity and cultural production and to strengthen structures, programming and distribution. All Greeks are aware of the impact the health crisis is having on the economy in general and on the cultural sector in particular. That's why we need to continue to support our creative industries. And we must not forget those 30,000 families -- about -- which represent 2.7 of GDP -- according to the data before the pandemic --. Therefore, culture is an essential part of ourselves as a society, which defines and shapes our own identity. The reactivation plan already collected, at the time of its publication, an analysis of the possible effects of the pandemic. So recent reports of the Galeg Culture Council only come to provide new data on the forecasts that have already been used as a basis for building this roadmap. Almost a year after its launch, the balance of this document leaves some outstanding figures: more than 1,200 activities supported by the networks and programs of the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries, Agadic; the momentum of 480 initiatives of the Xacobeo 2021 Cultural Project Fund; more than a decade of activities carried out through CES-Galicia; support the multitude of theatre and audiovisual festivals; organization of more than 700 reading dynamisation activities in public libraries; around 192 help for companies and professionals in the book sector -- bookstores, editors, translations, etc. -- ; 50 aids to the municipalities for cultural equipment; aid to the creation in the artistic field and art galleries; and set up training activities in which more than 650 people participated; support for cultural heritage assets as an element of social cohesion and a long et cetera up to 4,500 concrete actions. [[Applause]] Obviously, in order to achieve its purpose, the plan, of course, like all the plans, cannot be a fixed picture. It had to be an open work frame, and the document itself already pointed to the need to implement specific and adaptive measures in the first pages. Thus, throughout all these months, the Galician Union has continued its process of dialogue with a double purpose: to first-hand know its new difficulties and needs, and to implement measures that meet those needs. In this way, they continued to launch new help lines. Without going any further, on February 1st to Junta de Galicia published an extraordinary call for grants for concert halls with an investment of EUR 800,000 and with the aim of bringing liquidity to these spaces so that they can cope with the economic effects and resume their activity as soon as the health situation permits. But it is also important to highlight another type of initiatives complementary to the reactivation plan, and to those who could also access professionals in the field of culture, such as the direct aid linked to the first rescue plan driven by the Employment Council -- which was referred to today and of what we have just learned -- of 2.2 million euros for self-employed and micro-enterprises who were able to benefit more than a thousand professionals. And besides, the second rescue plan is already underway with an investment of 75 million euros. The current context is not the same as when thought and this reactivation plan was developed for the cultural sectors, and it is necessary to take up-to-date measures in line with the needs that professionals themselves transfer to the Galician Union. And in this sense I am very glad that the meeting that the Councillor for Culture held this weekend with the President of the Royal Galaga Academy, with the President of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts and also with the Council of Greek Culture itself. And at this meeting the Government announced the new plans to support the cultural sector for the next quarter, which broadened the scope of the reactivation plan set in motion with a new share of EUR 23 million. They seek to continue to protect cultural employment, encourage consumption, support new formats and ultimately treat culture. And the truth is, the Socialist Party is asking for a new reactivation plan, but under this context it's getting late again. In fact, this request must have been made to the government of Pedro Sánchez a year ago, just a year ago, when all the professional sectors demanded extremely urgent measures. And it must be remembered that the same month the Minister of Culture of the Sánchez government justified the absence of concrete measures for the cultural sector quoting Orson Wells, who said, "First life and then cinema." I don't know if the Socialist Party gentlemen share this appointment. At that time Galicia was launching its cultural reactivation plan. And the Socialist Party can also make this request to the minister right now -- yes, right now -- because in January the minister balanced his management and said, "In a pandemic year it's hard for culture to be the protagonist of a country." I don't know if you also share the words of the highest reference for you, of the Minister of Culture. [[Applause]] At this moment, for the Galician Union culture is the protagonist, and so it is believed and is proving itself to be the first community to launch a reactivation plan. There's a constant dialogue with the sector -- and tell me -- and new measures that respond to the changing context and to the needs and demands of professionals. So, I believe that this 23 million-euro injection into the reactivation plan and other general aids -- such as those that can be attached to the second rescue plan for the autonomous and pemes, with investments of 65 million euros -- will contribute to strengthening, taking care of and undermining the culture sector of our community. Nothing else, Mr. President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Díaz Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u167	I think I won't get five minutes to answer, so I won't answer everything. I'd like to have that time. The first thing I have to tell you is that, please, they're landing at once. Something was said about "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia." Please, land a little! Let Madrid, ministers and so on, we're here! And I only responded to you. If you want, then we'll talk about lucky or unlucky statements from a minister. If you want, I can tell you, and you might even be surprised at what I think. But we're not here to talk about it, okay? How good it was not to give the press release on Saturday! Indeed, I would be making a spoilser of the intervention of the spokesperson for the People's Party. Another thing I want to answer is that, instead of withdrawing this proposal, they support it. Because, if it is finally the same, I understand that tomorrow there will be a positive vote on this. Why do we insist so much on the matter of evaluation? BNG's voicer already said so. But I want to insist very much, because there are probably a lot of people here... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are probably a lot of people who don't know, but that evaluation paper, that report that they sent to the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation, that report that sent to the Council to evaluate the Cultural Reactivation Plan, I want them to see it. That's it. It's this cover, this leaflet, another leaflet and this cover. [[Mrs. Díaz Varela shows a document from the stage.]] This is the assessment report of a plan of EUR 10.6 million. And if this is serious, then you'll tell me, then you'll explain. [[Applause]] This is the lack of seriousness for the culture of this government that we have here. And I have to assure you that it was a cause for laughter, a lot of laughter, where we went, we told and taught everyone what I meant for the Culture Council. By the way, it's a plan -- you see here, "Report on the state of the Reactivation Plan, 26th of the 11th," 26th of the 11th! --, of which you're talking about having a 95.5% degree of execution. Of course, if it's practically finished, I say it could already be evaluated. We're actually worried about that, because this shameful document realizes a disinterest that, from our point of view, can put our culture at risk. It lacks a strategy, a short-term government strategy, and we don't talk about the long term or the medium term. Of course, if we present this PNL, it's because the people of culture -- yes, the people of culture, Mr. Voice of the People's Party -- it's the one who tells us that there is no such dialogue, that there is a lack of movement in the Council, saving timely contacts to deal with specific issues -- that if there were them, but not to talk about that strategy about what we're going to do with this year 2021 --. And in the meantime, our culture continues to agonize and is getting more and more tired. That's what they confessed to us. What we were told was that, throughout all this time, these last few months, they are tired of little will, of unfulfilled expectations, of gifts to the sun. What do you need? How do we have to reconfigure this pandemic year -- because it's going to be all year like this --? With measures that strengthen industry, which professionalize the sector, that internationalize our products by thus taking beyond our borders our culture and also our language -- which is possible, do not have complex -- that protect employment, that support new talents and creation, that ensure events -- yes, that they reprogram them, but do not cancel themselves -- that support basic culture -- by the way, the basic culture is the germ of everything and is being seriously damaged by the continuous closure of their activity, that they guarantee security in shows, that they cause increased consumption, but not only consumption, but also of the cultural habits and practices of our society -- most important -- or that they worry about advising those who intend to engage in Greek culture. It's a lot of action that can be taken, a lot! They didn't want to understand, as it has already been said here, culture as a first-needed asset. You've decided with your vows. You'll see what they are or were their reasons. But please, let's not let a sector, an industry, an activity die, which has proved so essential in these hard times that we live. We've been talking about a sector that's been living for a year of suspensions, delays and uncertainties, a lot of uncertainties! and that, as we've already said, has a great job vulnerability due to seasonality and the intermittentness of its activity. I'm done. Listen actively, rigorous evaluation, realization, speed and sufficient resources, with these five ingredients you now make a recipe that solves the problem of insanity that is currently suffering from our culture. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-09-DSPG023.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much, everyone.
