ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u1	We resume the session with agenda item 6, questions for the President's oral answer. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, asked about the actions being carried out by the Government of Greece to curb the effects of the third wave of cowardice-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u2	Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The third wave of the vault is hitting Galicia very hard: maximum levels of infection, maximum levels of hospitalizations, ICU occupations... we all know so many people affected. We see frightening numbers, and, behind the numbers, there are people, and the Greeks and the Greeks are deeply concerned. It's very hard because they've failed in the year 600 people by the vault in Galicia this 2021. Yesterday the cover of a newspaper pointed out that every hour and a half of this year there was a death by the coward in Galicia. You, Mr President, always point out that the death rate in Galicia by 100,000 inhabitants was low, but you also know that the rate and number of deaths by contagion was not. Now we have very high contagions in Galicia, and with a population so old and with collective immunity of group still so low the consequences are being shuddering. The rate of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants in January and February, in which it goes from year to year, was higher in Galicia than in communities such as Madrid or Catalonia. Without having the worst data, we have a very worrying situation. I therefore ask you not to be tempted to twist the data because we talk about lives and people and because there is a level of hospital pressure in Galicia that worries all the Greeks and the public health professionals. After so many years of cuts, health personnel are folding shifts, ICUs with non-specialist personnel are late and surgicals are already rented in private hospitals to divert urgent surgeries that cannot be dealt with in the public network. He failed the "Save Christmas" strategy, and rather than looking for a "Save Holy Week" strategy, we have to protect health and save people. For that reason the Government of Galicia will count on the loyalty of the Greek socialists. At times of most deaths, of more ICU beds occupied, we're not going to be in the process of questioning measures and restrictions, but we also want to see if we can explain what the forecasts are and what the clinical committee's reports on which Galicia's board is going to make the next decisions. In which we can't be accomplices, it's in other things. We can't be complicit in the errors of the vaccination process, because to save people the first is the vaccine. While we hope that the European Union will get the largest number of vaccines for all countries and also for Spain, we need transparent and efficient management in the vaccination process. We're concerned about the irregularities that are going on. You in your last appearance indicated that there was no PP mayor who had been vaccinated; 24 hours later it was seen that it was not. The 200 irregular vaccines in Pontevedra, that of the mayor of Boimorto, that of the delegated advisor to a hierarchical empire near the People's Party that received the vaccine after more than 2,600 people died in their residences show that there must be more efficient, stricter and more transparent. Do you confirm, Mr. Feijóo, that it is not relevant? [[Applause]] Or are you willing to investigate and clarify the event? The Greeks and the Greeks want an explanation, they want to have confidence that the administration of vaccines will not have irregularities. We ask you to exercise transparency so that no more ethical, aesthetic and regular situations happen, as if a person who is a delegated advisor to a hierarchical empire with so many deaths can receive the vaccine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u5	...when so many medical professionals and so many social services professionals are waiting for them. It will have the loyalty of the PSdEG to work against the crisis, but also the requirement that such irregular behaviors do not occur. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u6	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, I agree with you that we are very hit by the third wave and that in all Spain the vast majority of autonomous communities are beaten by this third wave. And I agree with you that it's very hard for you to die in Galicia already 2,016 people, who in Galicia have been infected since the pandemic began about 106,000 people and in which there are still as active cases about 17,600 people. I don't agree with you about Christmas. The instructions of the Government of Spain were that there could be mobility between December 23 and January 6th, 15 days of complete mobility in the country; we concrete 5. I do not agree because we denounce the concept of "allegates" that the Government of Spain has consolidated and that it has forced all the autonomous communities, and we go by the concept of "family units", which the Government of Spain has discarded. Between 4 and 8 January we started making the first decisions with this third wave and made restrictions on Santiago, Ourense and Coruña. On January 13, we took and expanded these restrictions based on the incidence rate and we concluded that 47% of the population was already at extreme risk and 64% were in perimetric closure. From there on the 26th -- twelve days later, as it is right and according to the protocol -- we gradually closed all the municipalities and closed the inn, we lowered the non-essential trade up to 6 p.m. and asked the Government -- their Government, the Government of Madrid -- who had authorized us to reduce even that time from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m.; things that in all cases were rejected by their governments. So, Your Honor, we've already begun to see the results of the decisions taken on January 13th, and this week we'll see more intensively those adopted on January 26th. Currently, the number of active cases in Galicia has decreased by 23 %. We moved from the peak of 23,000 -- number of infected people -- to 17,000. The most important thing is that the incidence at seven days has now fallen to 46%; we have passed from a peak of 405 to 220. He dropped the 14-day hospitalization rate, and we still have a high ICU rate. That's why, Your Honor, we're still working. And that's why I'm surprised that you -- I don't know why -- have such a bad concept of pandemic management again in Galicia. You take a few weeks of January and do a series of calculations. Why don't you take the whole pandemic? We've been in pandemic for a year; the mortality rate per 100,000 inhabitants in Galicia is the lowest in all of Spain Peninsular, the lowest! Until February 3, when we took the latest update, the mortality rate in Galicia was 67.5 per 100,000 people, and the average in Spain is over 127 people per 100,000 people. We're under half Spain, which is why I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you don't accept that we are doing things strictly. And I anticipate that we will continue to do things with rigour. We'll continue to see how the indices work, how the pandemic works, how it changes the trend down to the number of new infected people, and we'll do what it's about to do and what we're committed to doing: an opening, an unbalanced measure, gradual and not taking false steps. And, yes, we ask the Government for a full vaccination plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u9	...that they tell us exactly how many vaccines we're going to receive. They don't tell us every week that we're going to receive the following week; they tell us exactly how many vaccines Spain is responsible for making programming decisions and being able to deliver security and calm messages to the population. We can provide 100,000 vaccines a day. Right now I'm in a position to tell you that if I had vaccines, we would immunize the whole of the population of Galicia in six weeks. So, gentlemen, we've done what we're managing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u10	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u11	...and let's also realize, at least, the number of vaccines that the Greeks are going to have so that they don't have to change the number and criterion every week.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u13	That's why, Mr. Knight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u15	...I think we keep working hard. There will be no escalation or disproportionate or improvisation, but we will continue to slide gradually, moderately and with measure. And on that basis, we will continue to handle this third wave with greater rigour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u16	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u18	Thank you. For the reply, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u19	Thank you. Mr. President, I would like to reiterate the question and clarification that I have made to you in connection with the vaccination process and the fact that the delegated advisor to a hierarchical empire -- a person very close to the People's Party -- had received a vaccine out of priorities, out of the protocols, when more than 2,600 people failed in the residences of that hierarchical empire. By ethics and aesthetics you have to make a clarification and don't excuse an explanation that the Greeks and the Greeks want. [[Applause]] When the European Union is getting citizens to have the right to receive the vaccine, not on the basis of their wealth, not on the basis of their purchasing power, but on the priority of the collective, we have to get vaccines to protect the most vulnerable population. And when there are irregularities like this, they're not only a call of attention because if you're wrong or not using a vaccine, but because you're given a beating in the collective consciousness, which you have to work together to resist the virus and brake the contagion curve. It is a necessity that you pronounce yourself, that you investigate and clarify the event and condemn an irregular use that has the gravity of being done in a person who has had the role that he had in managing so many residences. [[Applause]] I mean, in addition, Mr Feijóo, that the strategy of saving Christmas failed, we know all the Greeks and all the Greeks. The same decision you made on January 26th could have made on December 20th. You had the tools to determine mobility, but we made mistakes; you made mistakes and you went all Galicia because we hope that when you manage, if you do your best. I'm convinced that you did what you thought was the best thing I should have done, but you recognize that the strategy didn't work. We will also be loyal and complicit in the mistake of those decisions because from the very first moment we do not question each of the decisions that are made, and we will back support those that take the following week to fight a pandemic, but you are not exempt from the responsibilities that correspond to you as President of the Council of Galicia. The strategy of "Save the Naval" failed, we cannot prioritize "Save the Holy Week"; what we have to be able to save and protect is the health of people with an adequate escalation, which must also be accompanied by the necessary economic measures. [[Applause]] And I have to tell you that on January 26th, you put the lock on thousands of shops, but it's not yet published in the CEO that extension of help you found here 15 days ago. And you received 24 million euros... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u21	... last year for reactivation and more than 1,100 million euros in the budgets of this year's Union. Besides saving people, to save people, we also have to rescue the economy. You have the funds, other administrations haven't received a single even bigger euro to solve the serious economic situation. Let's hope that for the sake of the whole country this semester of so many complexities we have a different strategy than saving Christmas and having a different economic rescue strategy than you applied last year with the abandonment of the productive sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u22	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u23	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u24	For the closing of the question, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u25	Mr. Knight, about saving the Holy Week, I think you should dive into the statements made by the central government and the ministers of the central government about the interest in provoking a Holy Week as if there were no pandemic. We said that we didn't talk about Holy Week and, therefore, we didn't teach us how to save Holy Week or save Christmas. Saving Christmas was that I could come all over the world and with the concept of "ally." It's true that you look like this... just like the rescue plan, 160 million euros. We dedicated ourselves to the rescue plan of the self-employed and micro-enterprises' hostel more money than the budget of the Sea Council. We dedicate a higher amount of money than it would cost to finish the highway on the Coast of Death. We are the autonomous community with the largest rescue plan for the hospitality sector, the autonomous sector and the micro-enterprise sector. And we're going ahead, Your Honor, and we're going to call the trade sector, because we have to keep working. Look, in the Coruña, we gave more than 2,000 help to the hospitality sector, 4 million euros; in Vigo, we gave more than 2,200 help, more than 4 million euros; in Santiago, more than 2,600,000 euros; in total, Your Honor, 19,999 help, 39 million euros only to the hospitality sector. What are you doing, Your Honor? Not a euro in the hospitality sector with support from the central government. And the central government is what European funds receive, don't be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, and that's what it says now that "to see if you can help trade, the hospitality sector." But drop the VAT at once!, drop the VAT in the hospitality sector and receive the hospitality sector in the Government of Spain, as we have received it continuously and steadily, gentlemen! Receive it, gentlemen. [[Applause]] We have Spain's biggest rescue plan for the sectors... now you come to tell me that you care about what we do with the escalation and at the same time we don't help the sectors, and you tell me from a government you don't care about the escalation, because you don't manage it, you don't get the hospitality sector, you don't care about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, about vaccine lessons... look, what's the reason that... [[Mrs. Abelairas Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u26	Miss Abelaras, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u27	...if you vaccinate the Deputy Director of Care, the Insular Director of the Third Age and the Deputy Director of Chronicity Care, a government of the Socialist Party? Has anyone quit? Also high positions of counseling. Does anybody say anything? Come and teach me three Socialist Party mayors -- you know -- in vaccinated Valencia. Has anyone quit? Your Honor, in the face of one case that was given in Galicia, we invite you to resign. And what he did was he went downstairs in the game. Any more responsibility we have to take? [[Murmurs.]] What we're not going, ladies and gentlemen, is to accept mayors who have stopped their payrolls and who drive cars in the name of people who have died, without passing on ITV, and there's not even any kind of justification for you as Secretary General of the Socialist Party. Lessons of ethics and morality, Mr. Caballero, by the Socialist Party... should be a little prudent, a little prudent, Your Honor. [[Applause]] But, look, there are two ways to make politics, and there are two ways to make government and opposition. There are rulers who prefer to hide like the oysters and say that this is other administrations. It's the most important pandemic in Spain in the last 100 years, and this isn't the central government's responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u29	There are other rulers who prefer to face. There are rulers who act by watching the CIS surveys, and there are other rulers who act by seeing the number of people who have entered the ICUs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are rulers, lords, who only have their best interests, and there are others who put Galicia's interests in front of any kind of political or personal interest. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways to make opposition: to follow the worship of what Mr. Churches and Mr. Sánchez say or to defend Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u30	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u31	For now, Mr. Knight, you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u33	Unfortunately, not even the leader of the opposition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u34	Mr. Knight, be quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u35	...speaks of Galicia; speaks of what the Government of Spain does.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u36	Mr. Knight, please, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u37	So, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, we will continue to manage this third wave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u38	Quiet, please, but don't interrupt; don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u39	...with the same rigour as we did in the first and second. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u40	Thank you, President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Abelaras, I've told you once that you have to be a little quieter. This isn't the Vigo Town Hall. Here we work differently. [[Murmurs.]] So please... please, if I know the whole Vigo Town Hall and have nothing to do with it, nothing to do with it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, I won't let them do it... I respect the local administration, but I'm talking about comparing full-fledged ones on one side, and I won't consent... No, no, sorry. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, maybe I respect the local administration more than you do. So please be quiet. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling you that here in this plenary I want there to be a normal behavior within what is the parliamentary framework. Of course, but I'm comparing myself with other things I see that I don't like what they do and I also have to say it. No, I'm sorry, now I've come up with who I've come up with. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the management of the Government of Galicia in relation to the defence of Galicia's interests in the distribution of the funds Next Generation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u41	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is leaving devastating consequences with a tragic data that summarizes the severity of the situation: 2,016 people who have died, half of them in the last three months. Therefore, there is nothing more important than saving lives, knowing, moreover, that controlling the virus is essential for economic reactivation; a reactivation in which the only extraordinary funds will be the Next Generation, a crucial theme in which the ultimate ambition, seriousness and rigour on its part, Mr. Feijóo. However, we attended a confusion ceremony. Look, October 17 announces seven projects for 3,200 million euros and 18,000 jobs. Five days later, on October 22nd, the projects multiply up to 108, amounting to 9,400 million, and that's right, they don't give jobs anymore. On January 29th, after the meeting with the president of the state, the 108 projects went to 5, which defined as very concrete -- if the rest should be inconcrete or fill-in. But it is not these projects that define how concrete they escape from that ceremony of confusion. Viscose plant. October 12 says it's 700 million jobs and 800 jobs. On November 30, it goes to 900 million and 1,000 jobs. But there's more, January 29th -- official release of the board -- the same plant goes up to 1,140 million and the job is 9,700. In two months the same plant goes from 700 to 1,140 million and multiply by ten the creation of jobs. I'm going to give you another example: a circular economy plant. October 12 has an investment of 525 million euros and 800 jobs. But on January 29th, also according to their official releases, it goes down to 500 million, but here -- miracle -- jobs go from 800 to 5,000. Mr. Feijóo, what kind of hair jacket is this? It's just that it's not serious. And we don't know about these projects because the only information that sent us was this 12-page PowerPoint where, if a sum, not even the numbers they send us correspond to the investments they announce. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows PowerPoint.]] It's obvious that this mix of opacity and propaganda has a goal, which is cover up that there's nothing behind it, that there's no vision of a country, of the future. The only thing there is is a president who becomes a commercial agent of a handful of multinationals while leaving the small and medium-sized company at stake, the self-employed workers, the real productive fabric, and a president who in that fiasco meeting with Sánchez has refused to claim direct management and even says he complies with receiving 4.6% of this Next Generation Fund. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, I ask you, why do you refuse to defend Galician interests in such a crucial matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u44	Thank you very much. Indeed, Mrs. Pontón, I had a meeting with the President of the Central Government, or with the President of the Government of Spain -- you can call him either way -- but not with the President of the State Government. So, I'm surprised... I guess that'll be the case. [[Murmurs.]] Do you think the President of the Central Government is the President of the State Government? [[Laughter]] But they don't even realize that Galicia is state too! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u45	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u46	So if you bother to pronounce the word Spain, that's another consideration. But what is clear is that I'm surprised at all and how many questions they ask about the number of jobs of different projects. [[Murmurs.]] Yesterday the economic vice president came at his own request and didn't ask him a single question. Mr. BNG and Mr. PSOE don't ask any questions about tractor projects, and now it turns out that Mrs. Pontón is coming because she doesn't understand a few considerations, when yesterday the vice president was asked no questions. But it's just that I really don't have questions here, because this question isn't a question; it's an assertion: that I don't defend Galicia's interests. [[Mr. President of the Galician Council, Núñez Feijóo, shows a document holding the hand.]] End of date. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I understand Galicia's interests are those that defend BNG, and those that don't defend BNG aren't Galicia's interests. We can therefore conclude the answer. Look, at the meeting with the President of the Central Government, I was obviously defending Galicia's interests. Galician interests are here, Your Honor, on the 105 pages I handed over to the President of the Central Government. [[Mr. President of the Galician Council, Núñez Feijóo, shows some documents.]] One by one, all the interests of the country, from the point of view of the Government, are here. Here's the request that the number of vaccines that arrive to us should be based on the Danish population; that is, according to the population over 80 years old, and not on unknown criteria, such as so far. Here are, Your Honor, the 15,000 jobs that the central government's industrial and energy policies are putting at risk in Galicia, in some cases already definitely finished. Here's that Navantia has no workload and that within fifteen days she's run out of nothing, without any boat in the steps. Here are, Your Honor, the commitments to the infrastructures, which are currently like an airport cartel -- in all Galician infrastructures it puts "retarded" or "canceled" -- Here are, Your Honor, the transfers of Coastal competition, the transfers so that we can at least be left with the Greek civil right, so that they don't get stuck with the inheritances alive. Here's something as elementary as promoting Xacobeo 2021-2022. Here's something as basic as CAP policies and Brexit policies. Here are, Your Honor, the commitments, in our opinion, with Galicia. Even here is what nationalists don't ask for, that's the EVV, and that we're already in court defending, and negative liquidations, more than 400 million euros. Here's the goal of a fair deal with Galicia. Look, one of the documents I handed the president was this. That's how the Government of Spain shares funds with Galicia. [[Mr. President of the Galician Council, Núñez Feijóo, now shows one of the documents.]] It turns out that the autonomous community with greater difficulties in providing public services -- Galicia -- is the autonomous community that receives less money per inhabitant, along with Castile and León. These are Galician interests, Mrs. Pontón. I have no interest whatsoever but the interests of Galicia. I don't criticise the Government of Spain and then govern it with the party of the Government of Spain in all the Greek institutions where the People's Party doesn't remove most absolute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u48	I have no more interests than Galicia, and that's why in the Next Generation funds I proposed competitive competition; I proposed criteria for depopulation, demographic challenge and industrial transition. And that's why, Your Honor, since we have no more objective than defending Galicia's interests, we will continue to defend Galicia's interests. And to me what I'd like to know at once is, do you know who they are with? Are they with the government party or are they with Galicia? Are they in the morning in the control sessions against the Socialist Party and in the afternoon ruling with him in all institutions, or are they defending Galician interests and not ruling with the PSOE?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u49	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u50	Hurry up, Mrs. Pontón. Look, I went to Moncloa to defend Galician interests. Unfortunately, you can't say the same thing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u51	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u52	Mr. Feijó, I didn't ask you about the vaccine. In any case, it is clear that you, as you have no arguments, must come here to talk about everything and not talk about anything. Look, you were the one who sent a statement after that meeting with Mr. Sánchez, where he said the outcome of the meeting was "very satisfactory." I mean, how good is it when you come to Galicia with empty hands and when the only thing that announces us is a new delay in AVE? You have to talk about infrastructure, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] But how can you talk about infrastructures, transfers, if you've been ruling Mr. Rajoy for eight years and you haven't managed a single transfer to Galicia, Mr. Feijóo? But what kind of hairskin is this? [[Applause]] Look, Gallica's interests don't defend themselves with sobs and punching his chest, as you do here in Parliament, defend yourself with specific facts, and his facts are that he goes to Moncloa and he's not able to achieve anything, either with Rajoy or now with Sánchez, because you're the one who practices submission, submission to Madrid. [[Applause]] Look, I'm here to talk to you about something that is fundamental to the future of this country. And on that subject, you're showing us that you have no project or ambition. I offered you three times in this House, Mr. Feijóo, that we sat down to talk about the next generation fund and its distribution, and, every time we sit down and make that offer of dialogue, you remind me here that I don't know what pacts. But, Mr. Feijóo, if you want to talk about pacts, explain the pacts of your party with the far right!; those are the covenants that must be explained in this House. [[Applause]] And look, Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, needs ambitions and projects. To this House the only one who has remitted his Government is a twelve-leaf PowerPoint cutre; that's all the information we have about the next Generation funds. I reiterate to you that, despite the fact that they seem to us that they are not on a subject like this and that they are advertising a very serious matter, we will continue to defend until the last moment that Galicia has to receive every euro that corresponds to these Next Generation funds. This requires ambition and we need to demand a territorialized allocation of funds because Europe distributes territorially, but the Spanish State, no, and we need to demand that 9% of these funds, 12,600 million, arrive in Galicia, because if any territory needs an energy transition, a digitization, to drive industry, that's Galicia, and we have to go with ambition and not with reductions, as you were in Madrid at that meeting with Sánchez. Of course, we have to sit down and talk seriously about the projects that we have to apply for this country to have a future, which is not going out of the hands of four multinationals who already have enough resources, but thinking about the public interest. That's the offer of dialogue we make to you, and we ask you, Mr. Feijóo, not to come here with more cheap politics, because we are in the midst of a crisis where people are dying, where there are thousands of desperate people, who are waiting for this Parliament... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u53	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u54	Mr. Feijóo, you're not going to attack the BNG, but we're putting the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks ahead. Because by attacking the BNG you better think you can hide your mistakes, but that's no use in this country. Let's put Galicia on the front...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u56	Of course, the BNG will continue to work in that direction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. To close the question, the president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u58	I'm surprised, Mrs. Pontón, that you think talking about vaccines is not to defend Galician interests. If we had the necessary vaccines, I can assure you that between the month of February and March we would immunise 100 percent of the population of Galicia. And you think that's not a topic to defend Galicia's interests? Is it not to defend the interests of Galicia that, if the target population of the vaccine is the greater than 80, pass us 8.2% of the total vaccines that are distributed in Spain? Isn't that to defend Galicia's interests? Very surprising, Mrs. Pontón, what you understand about Galicia's interests! Look, about empty-handed matters. But if you have a pact of legislation with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party! And now it turns out that they're installed in the postureum, again, on AP-9! [[Murmurs.]] Unfortunately, each Member of this House has his own political history. You voted not for the transfer of AP-9 and I, when I was in opposition and when I was in government, I always voted for the transfer of AP-9. You and the BNG voted no. What do I think you're going to talk to me about now in the AP-9 transfer, Mrs. Pontón? You won't see me at any meeting of the Journal of Sessions voting against the transfer of the motorway. You would vote against it, simply because they now rule with Sánchez and then rule with Zapatero. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, with all due respect, they talk about funds and extreme right, etc. But if the funds we have approved in Spain are the result of the most radical vote in the country, Bildu and Vox! Obviously, along with PSOE and We can. [[Murmurs.]] So, what are you complaining about?, do you complain that your political allies vote in favour of funds that are not distributed according to the population of the autonomous communities -- I mean Bildu--? Look, there's nothing more old-fashioned than supporting Otegui and Junqueras. No, no, don't put your hands on your head. [[Murmurs.]] I put my hands in her head when I saw Mrs. Ponton in a rally with Otegi and Junqueras. That's what I put my hands on, Your Honor. [[Applause]] There's nothing more old-fashioned, nothing more antidemocratic, nothing more against our autonomy than to support in a rally to Otegi and Junqueras. It's unfortunate! It is ironic that I come here to be questioned by Galician interests by the same person who participated in a rally a few days ago with Mr. Otegi and Mr. Junqueras. But do you mind something about Galicia or Catalan independence? You think a person convicted of kidnapping... how do you...? [[An honourable Member: Hello!]] Does it seem to you that making a rally with a person convicted of kidnapping and being one of the members of the political-military ETA don't prevent it? How do you feel? [[Interruptions.]] But would you like to remind him of the number of Greeks killed by ETA to come here to support Otegi in a rally on behalf of Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] Is that a German or an ancient party, ladies and gentlemen? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As president of the Greeks, I deeply regret that BNG and Mrs. Pontón are taking part in a rally with Otegi and with Junqueras to ask I don't know what; that is yes, as there are internal currents in the BNG then I saw a tweet by Mrs. Presas supporting the CUP. Mrs. Pontón supports Left and Mrs. Presas supports CUP! [[Laughter]] But is this to defend the interests of the country? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u59	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u60	These are Galician interests? But, with all this, can you be more radical? Can you be more radical? But, really, Mrs. Pontón, you come here to tell me you want to make a deal and make proposals, when they don't propose anything, they don't do anything, they don't support anything and they don't vote anything. We did the Reactivation Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u61	Finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u62	...the BNG and PSOE proposal, and we're in the Reactivation Commission. Aren't we going to agree on anything in the Reactivation Committee, Mr. Knight? Do they let you remember anything or not? The Socialist Party in the autonomous communities in which they are in opposition agrees with the People's Party... [[Murmurs.]] And the lady of the BNG has to ask...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u63	Please, stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u64	...allow Mr. Otegi and Mr. Junqueras to support the Country Reactivation Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u65	No, no, I'm controlling the times. Times are proportional. It's over, president. The times are proportional. [[Murmurs.]] Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u66	Look, Mrs. Pontón, make any mistakes. An error in your biography is that myth, but you can correct it, because we all make mistakes, and we can all rectify it. But, look, between defending Galician interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u68	Listening to your preaching in that myth is a boisterous thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u69	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u70	And that's why I ask you, Mrs. Pontón...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u71	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u72	...that it focuses on the interests of the country and that it stops making the ridiculous outside of Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u73	Yes, Mrs. Pontón? What do you want the word for? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry! I'm going to ask, I think it's my obligation to know what the word is for. Then I'll say if I give it to her or not. What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u74	To correct my own words, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u75	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u76	To correct my own words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u77	To correct your own words you have a short turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u78	I made an intervention in which I spoke about the Next Generation and Mr. Feijóo's lack of ability to defend the interests of this country. I regret your lack of political size, because I come here to talk about Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u79	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u80	...and you come here to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u81	That's not correcting your words. No, Mrs. Pontón, that's not rectification; that's political debate. No, no, it's over. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, the shift is over. No, they're not listening, the shift is over. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, you've finished your shift. You don't have the floor, Mrs. Pontón, you're not listening. [[Applause]] We continue with the agenda, with non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other Members, on the situation of Greek fishing following the agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom in relation to Brexit
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u82	To formulate this non-legislative proposal, which was amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rosa Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u83	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. No other subject has ever been so helpful and was so exploited by a political force like the People's Party as the topic of terrorism in the Spanish State. It's all right, it's all right! [[Applause]] And, of course, in politics, ladies and gentlemen -- and in particular, the People's Party -- it must not be worth everything. At this point, there's been a loud fire in ETA years, and we're in another phase, but you're still in the Paleolithic, trying to take advantage of this subject, just as they always did. [[Applause]] Two months ago, gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u84	Silence, Mr. Pazos! Mr. Peace, be quiet! Mr. Paz, you are not in the use of the word. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u85	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u86	Quiet, Mr. Paz, if not, I have to call you in order, and I don't want to call anyone in order. I'm in line to not want to call anyone in order, but, if you put yourself in that weaver, I'm going to have to do it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Please, it's in the use of the word -- I'll make up for the time -- Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u87	He said, "Today can be a great day." Ladies and gentlemen, two months ago, on 15 and 16 December, the annual Council of Ministers for Fisheries of the European Union took place in Brussels, where it was decided how much and which species would be able to fish for the Greek fishing sector during the year 2021. A week later, on December 24, in extremes, the agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom on Brexit took place. In a week, two very important milestones were produced for the Greek fishing sector and for the whole of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, two months ago. If we lived in a normal country and had a normal government, the maximum or maximum responsible for fishing would have appeared in this House the very next day or at least at the first plenary meeting to be held. As it was not, throughout all this time, the maximums responsible for fishing both in the Galician Union and in the State Government, and even the highest European representatives, served us Christmas dinner through the media so that we were slowly chewing it up and we came to the conclusion that what happened in December was just a bad digestion -- at most, a temporary malaise -- and after two months there would no longer be any trace of that crowd. We had to stop the annual statements again, but in this case by duplicate, on 16 and 24 December, and always, that is, yes, warning us that everything could be much worse. The European authorities and the Government of Spain have concluded the agreement, and even qualified it as fair and balanced. The Spanish Government, as always, "satisfied" -- in the words of the minister himself -- of negotiations. A restriction of statements which, from the point of view of the interests of the Greek fishing sector and the weight it has in the whole of our country's economy, are not only disrespectful, but which clearly show the null value that the European Union and the Government of the state have the fishing and the Greek economy; and, what is far more serious, the zero importance and lack of political weight that Galicia has for these institutions. The Board, as always, is going down the corners and producing endless headlines; and the Colofon, the sea councillor, who, while on the one hand says that he expected more "sensitivity" from Brussels, expresses, without any sensitivity -- and I say it textually -- "that you will have to consider fixing a minimum quota of fishermen to ensure their sustainability." So, ladies and gentlemen, the solution to all this failure is, according to the advisor -- the most responsible for fishing in this country -- to eliminate sailors. Ladies and gentlemen, in a normal country, with a normal government, after these statements, the advisor would not have lasted for five minutes. [[Applause]] In the end, the board comes up with a letter, with a message from the president of the board to Sanchez and with two reports. That's right, the most important part for every frame to also get inside the package: eliminating sailors. Ladies and gentlemen, at the BNG we think that the Greek fishing sector has been in Brexit mode since 1986 and that many other things would have to be eliminated before we eliminate sailors. That's why we present our proposals here today. The figures, the data, we know them by the press, of course. [[Murmurs.]] Brexit is bound by an agreement that ends in 2026, within five years, and implies that the European fleet -- including the Galician fleet -- renounces 25 % of the catches in the United Kingdom lockers. There are no cuts in the case of the Malvinas, but tariffs are estimated to be up to 18 %. After 2026, negotiations will have to be made annually and species the species. I suppose at this point no one will think that after those five years the lost quota will be recovered, and in the best case you'll have to fight every year for minimizing catch cuts. All of this must be added to the annual distribution of TACs from the European Union itself; distribution which year after year is detrimental to Galicia. In fact, in last December, as I said, the cut is still much higher than the Brexit derivative: for example, 5 % on the fish, 7 % on the methiga, 12 % on the toad fish, 20 % on the abbotex, 15 % on the cockroach, and so on. But far beyond the figures and interpretations of each of those figures, it is clear that the outcome of the agreement has a negative effect on our fleet, now and in the future. And it is also clear that, at this point, the measures to be taken to try to reverse the situation cannot be merely conjunctural and limit themselves to time compensation. By the way, we'll talk more slowly about compensation. We will put forward concrete proposals, because what is right now on the table is another scandal, another joke, a reserve fund set up by the European Union of EUR 5 billion, of which only 600 are to mitigate the losses of the fisheries sector in the whole of affected countries. In particular, the Spanish State allocates 184 million euros, of which only 2 million -- only 2 million; that is 0.35% of the total -- to compensate the Spanish fishing sector. When these figures are applied to the Greek fishing sector, it will again be to tremble. The measures to be taken must, therefore, be at the root of the problem, and should lead to the removal of cementation, the fundamental political agreements which led to discrimination in our fleet from the European Union, from the very entry of the Spanish State in 1986. First, it is essential to work politically in all institutions with the clear aim of starting a process of revision of the notion, up to now rigid and unmovable, highly dependent region of fishing, precisely at its time inspired by the United Kingdom itself, among others. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, has more than enough elements to be recognised as such, because fishing activity influences economic, labor and social activity in such a way as to ensure that the serious difficulties that the fishing sector has been accumulating for years are decisive in reducing total economic activity and in losing employment. Secondly, the known principle of relative stability that has been maintained since the 1980s, which has been sacred in successive reforms of the common fisheries policy and which is now being questioned from all areas -- from the politician to the scientist -- has to be removed, has to be eliminated. Brexit's negotiations were precisely the right moment to try to negotiate a new status for the Welsh fleet that could prevent its disappearance. Now, ladies and gentlemen, given the results of that agreement, that possibility has to become a reality and all efforts must be made to carry it out and ensure that the European Union ultimately derogates relative stability. Relative stability -- this principle that is not written anywhere as such, but that exists -- is the main responsibility for Galicia being the great loser at the moment and that even today its fishing opportunities are far less than its capacity. To illustrate what I'm saying, we could draw from a lot of data, assessments and studies done, but I'm going to choose to quote one of the most devastating. In the last fifteen years, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has lost more than 22% of its ships; nothing less -- nothing less! -- that 1,200 ships in the last fifteen years, and in the last decade the most affected fleets were the height, which lost 45 percent, almost half of the boats, and the high one, almost 30%. Third. After all that rains in these years and in view of the scarce importance for the Spanish state of fishing, it becomes more urgent than ever to address Galicia's involvement in defending her interests and in making decisions that affect her so directly. It must therefore be recognised that we are able to negotiate directly fisheries issues and that those issues cannot be adopted without the consent and acceptance of Galicia. We know, because we live in this country, that this task is not easy, and the achievement of this goal is not going to be immediate, so we are proposing that in the short term the Greek Government take measures that serve to alleviate the consequences of Brexit. Those measures must first be agile in their programming, and secondly effective in their application. The German Government can't even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u89	... -- I will end up, Mr President -- stand aside from drawing up economic and social support measures for the fisheries sector and for the affected areas. And finally, Mr President, our proposal demands that, on a subject of such a large scale as this one, the political groups that we are represented in the Greek Parliament, we cannot stand aside and that we have to have the data directly, to know the details of the agreement, and to participate in discussions to contribute to our contributions in decisions towards the immediate future. We therefore call for our inclusion, the inclusion of the political parties represented here, in the Galician Fisheries Council and in a commission that would be created especially for this purpose. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Patricia Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u91	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Beyond the fact that the Socialist Parliamentary Group agrees with many of the demands put by the Nationalist Block of Wales in its non-law proposal, and that many of them we shared, I wanted to ask the lordships of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and also the People's Party: what would they prefer? what was a Brexit without agreement? that our ships and our fleet had been expelled from the waters of the United Kingdom on 1 January 2021? Because that would be what would happen if it were a Brexit without agreement. Of course, it's not the best deal, we all wish we could have achieved more, but we all know that in a situation of breakup, like in a divorce, often we don't get what we wanted at a point of departure. But it would be a lot worse if Brexit had not agreed and if our ships couldn't be working today in the waters of the United Kingdom. So it's not the best deal, but, of course, we got much more than if Brexit didn't agree. And even there are politicians of the People's Party, like the former Fisheries Adviser, Mr. Veiga, who even recognized that it was a good deal. In the words of this honourable Member you will not hear of saying that we are satisfied and that it was a good agreement, but it is far better than if there was no agreement, because the implications for Galicia do not reach an agreement in Brexit are not minor. Exports from the automotive sector to the United Kingdom amount to 600 million, exports from the textile and footwear sector amount to around 500 million, exports from fish stocks to more than 40 million, and exports from slate, for example, account for more than 50 million. So the agreement reached is an agreement that saves the movement of goods -- which seems to us to forget that -- This is a zero tariff and zero quota agreement; therefore, imports and exports from Greece will not be subject to tariffs or volume limits. For example, I will also set an example that is not fishing, but what we have been talking about a lot in this Parliament: the problem of Alcoa. Liberty House is a British company. Would you think Liberty House would still be interested in buying Alcoa if there were these tariffs that could come from a Brexit without agreement? Well, no. The fisheries agreement is replaced by Title V, the corresponding stocks annexes and the water access protocol during the adjustment period; that is, between 1 January 2021 and 30 June 2026. During this period of time, it will be angry by implementing a partial transfer of European catches into British waters -- the British side -- and this will reach 25 % of the value of catches. But the agreement does not collect a specific percentage applied linearly, but rather specific transfers per stock. We must remember -- which seems to be forgotten -- that the United Kingdom was asking for an 80.3% reduction in three years. 80.3% in three years was the exit point, and we reached 25%. I think the difference is considerable. [[Applause]] In addition, the agreement includes important dissuasive mechanisms for any unilateral action by the United Kingdom to tighten European access and captures in the European Union after the transition period. For example, Article 9 of the Fisheries Agreement regulates compensatory measures in the event of withdrawal or reduction of access. And -- I repeat -- it's not the deal we wanted, but the absence of agreement would have been much worse -- as I said -- with the withdrawal of our British water boats on January 1st. Galicia played a lot in these negotiations, not only on the subject of fishing. The bottom to deal with the damage to Brexit provides 600 million for fishing. I believe that, in that sense, we must work all and all -- and, of course, the administrations that have responsibility -- so that these funds arrive as soon as possible to our sailors. Here Mrs Pérez also spoke of the fact that in the beginning they had allocated only 2.2 million for Spanish fishing. We, of course, do not agree with those criteria that have been adopted, with that amount that I told Spain to play, and therefore also with our Galician fleet, and, in addition, our MEP has made it clear, that they are not in agreement; and they are working to improve it. The Galician Union criticizes the agreement, but -- I repeat -- I don't know what Feijóo wanted, if he wanted us to refuse that agreement and throw our British water fleet away. We have to wait until the conclusion of the agreement, the negotiations, to see the final quotas, because now what we have is provisional quotas. Of course, the agreement guarantees the maintenance of the Spanish and Welsh fleet in conditions similar to the present, but with a framework of legal stability and security. It was also achieved -- as I said -- to establish this five-and-a-half-year transitional period so that the sector can gradually and fairly adapt to the new situation without interrupting its activity. But it's also necessary to do a few dabs in numbers as much as that cut of what we're talking about. That is, the reductions, after the transitional period, in the main species of the Great Sun are: for example, the reduction of the northern hake is 1.02%; the northern rooster is 2.5 %; and the northern rap, depending on the zone, varies between 0.24% and 0.76%. That is, in the stocks in the south -- where it includes, for example, the cabal -- there are no changes and the fishing possibilities are maintained, and there are no transfers in deep waters, like the beaut. We agree that this is the time and that there are opportunities for funding for the challenges of the fisheries sector: sustainability, competitiveness and social cohesion. There are possibilities for funding, and we must work not to lose a single euro of these possibilities. In the short term, we know of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, also of the 2014-2020 FEMP, and in the medium term, through the new FEMPA 2021-2027. There the administrations -- of course, the central, but also the autonomic -- must boost the improvement of the execution of the current FEMP and launch the new FEMPA, with an operational program that is consistent with the sector and which addresses the difficulties of application that the current fund finds and which we have dealt with in different commissions. So the main effect for Galicia of Brexit is also to end these negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom because, as I said, we are still on provisional quotas. These definitive fishing quotas must be established for all member states and therefore also for our ships. At the Council of Ministers for Fisheries of the European Union last December, an advance of the fishing quotas for the first quarter of the year, except for the cabal, for which 65 % of the annual quota was approved. That is why Galicia is waiting for that final quota which, as we all know, on the issue of Brexit has been delayed; but it is hoped that these final quotas will be finally put at the March Council of Ministers. We agree with the points presented by the Galician Nationalist Block at its initiative. It is true that we amend point 3, as it speaks not only of Galicia's direct negotiating capacity on fisheries, but of all the issues of particular relevance to its economy. He also speaks of the need for Galicia's consent in order to bring those decisions forward. If we put veto capacity on the part of all autonomous communities, it will be very difficult to get the subjects out of the way. That is why we said that it would be better to urge the Government of Spain to acknowledge Galicia's capacity to participate in those issues of relevance to the Greek fishing and maritime sector. But here I want to make a point, because it seems that sometimes we forget something. The Sea Councillor, Mrs Quintana, is already representing the autonomous Spanish fishing communities in the European Union. So that's where you also have to make use of the fishing position of our Galician community. Of course, she accompanies the Minister of Fisheries -- as the fisheries ministers of other governments already did -- and therefore she is also in these negotiations. I repeat, so that my words will not be misinterpreted: it is true that Spain has not been the most disadvantaged, nor has it been of the countries most affected by this Brexit fisheries agreement -- other countries like France, Germany or Denmark have been worse off -- but that is not why we can be happy with this agreement. We wish we had gone much further, but I repeat that an unagreed Brexit would be bad for our fleet. For my part, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u93	Good morning. Thank you, President. First of all, Mrs Pérez, for her insistence on the advisor's statements: minimum and maximum -- I don't know if you remember the lessons we were given in the Sesame Quarter as well -- ; a minimum of sailors, and from there up, up. It's the Galician retreat. You didn't understand these statements, and I have to tone them here today before I started. With whom are you angry, with Sánchez, with Pablo Iglesias? Because he's talking about a mission, ridiculing everything he's asked for from Galicia. You were with a missile and points to make a pact with which we had nothing to catch and which, in addition, it seems, they're not making any case at all. So everything you say and what you say insistently, we know it as a matter of fact. On behalf of the PSdEG, Mrs. Otero, you come here to justify yourself, to explain to us what I don't know; I don't know if they're going to do what they want to do, what they want to do, or what they'd like they would have done, but they didn't get to it. Fortunately, Mrs Quintana and Galicia now represent the autonomous communities, not as it was at other times, which represented them, at the time of Zapatero, Extremadura. That was the choice they made, even though Galicia had offered itself on its day. As you know, this initiative consists of six points, which we amend with a view to nudging some of them some requirements that seem essential to us. Because it is true that it has come a long time and that we have been talking about Brexit for a long time in this Parliament. And, in addition, there are many actions and activities that have been carried out since that word was sounded, and we already knew that it would directly affect fishing. In point 1 they propose to carry out, without delay, the procedures for Galicia to be recognized as a highly dependent area of fishing. We believe it would be more correct -- and I open you to eat because we actually did the amendment -- "legally and economically analyze and then propose," because they are not political opinions, we know it perfectly, and we can prove it; and, as it is in the PNL, we don't know what the process is. So, in that case, we'd make that nuance. Points 2, 3 and 4 would respect them as deep as they are. As I said, we know in depth all the subjects that you've exposed here today. And from the bottom, in the need for Galicia to be present, to defend our fishing interests before the United Kingdom and to go hand in hand, of course, we agree, but in point 2, in the revision of the principle of stability concerning what you mean, we cannot receive lessons from the BNG with this subject of the so-called bad principle. 90% of the resources against relative, direct or indirect stability were brought in by the governments of the People's Party in Spain, taking as a reason, for example, the allocation and exchange of anchorages in 1996, 1997, 1998, 2000 and 2001, and also taking as a reason the allocation of quotas in the North Sea, for example in the Baltic, in 2003 were also presented these resources -- I insist -- by the governments of the People's Party in Spain. The legal reports tell us that the best path is not the resource, but to address that readjustment of quotas because of the need for allocation to meet the discards, because it is also a factor that enters and is now on the table and which was not before. You can't teach us any lessons about the Galician Nationalist Block against fisheries policy and relative stability because you co-governed in Galicia. Since they don't like us talking about the "Biparty," let's say they co-governed the Socialist Party and the Block gave us a three-sheet document -- that was their roadmap, that they didn't even know how they wanted to do it -- and they voted against a ruling from the Galician Fisheries Council at that time that he was talking about and betting on that position against relative stability. We're really glad they change their mind, but they can't teach us lessons. We have to settle before we ask, that's also important, because it's not going to be that in that new division other countries are asking to enter into agreements in quotas of third parties and we would therefore be losing ourselves. So at that point, too, it's important to take all of these issues into account. At the third point they talk about the recognition of direct negotiating capacity. So here's where the Socialist Party of Galicia has been amended, and the truth is, it's quite amazes us. For, as I say, today Mrs. Otero spoke here of what had to have been but was not; she came here to justify herself. At this point, the Socialist Party of Galicia says they want the recognition of Galicia's ability to participate in those issues of relevance to the maritime-fishing sector of Galicia, but the facts -- as I say -- are others. It turns out that after the Ministry had left Mrs. Quintana out of the negotiations of the EU's fisheries ministers' councils the previous semester, they now come with this; after the Council of the Sea had to go to Madrid to follow from the Ministry the Council of Ministers, when it could do so from Galicia with a video conference -- but it had to be there, next to the Minister, to be controlled -- they now come with this; after the President of the Union had asked Sánchez that Galicia was present in the negotiations on quota issues with the United Kingdom, through the President of the Union and the Sea Councillor, presumably there is nothing known about this, and now they come to us with this; and after that in Zapatero times -- as I said earlier -- they chose the Extreme to negotiate fishing quotas and the interests of Galician fishing and autonomous communities of Spain, they now come with this. So we believe that this amendment is to be good and, I don't know, to justify support for this LNP as well. And we also believe that, if you believe that we are worth so much, that we are so much needed in Galicia for negotiations, they are making calls for them to assist us and allow us to participate in all these situations, because it is true that we have proven capacity and that we have knowledge and argument to participate; and we have it in the Government of Galicia through the fisheries sector -- as I always say -- for the work and experience we have and we can also have through all the Members of this House. We must underline in that case, at this third point, the importance of the letter sent by President Feijóo to Sánchez, who in this case is considered ridiculous or here is trying to undermine his importance. But in that letter, in December, there is also the concern about the impact on the marine industry chain -- since we talked yesterday too, about the agreement we talked about yesterday and we'll vote after -- and we'll also talk about quota negotiations and fisheries management that takes place in the United Kingdom and that there is Galicia. So this point we clearly support a hundred percent. And also to establish a common strategy for defending interests and the fleet in the face of the current negotiation of fisheries management and fishing opportunities in this process. Point 4 is on contingency plans and economic and social support. Do we, from Galicia, an autonomous community, have to provide support? The Government of Spain and the European Union, especially the European Union, will have to provide such support. We believe that this government, the European Union in general, and the Government of Spain are competent in the negotiation and also have the Brexit Recovery Fund, which is known as BAR, and Galicia is seeking allies in the European regions to facilitate this fund by introducing criteria that collect non-direct impacts within the Committee of the Regions of the Atlantic Arc, to receive such aid. We understand that it is only due, in addition, to address the immediate consequences and not those that can come in the medium and long term, which are the most complicated for Galicia, because in this case we have to know where we are right now and what we are most interested in prioritizing. And we get to points 5 and 6. This is where I say -- especially in the 6th -- that's where you see the real face of the Galician Nationalist Block and what you want. Point 5 calls for a committee to be set up in Parliament to discuss Brexit. We believe that you with the commissions have enough here -- forgive me the expression -- say it, because they ask for a lot of commission, and when we're willing to do it, they just criticize it. After being in a committee, the press are going to criticise Parliament's committee: if they don't do what the opposition parties say, if anyone comes in, they're not the right person... and when we vote and decide on the work plan with most of us in this Parliament, they're not worth it either. So, I think we can save ourselves that procedure, and what we are considering is that Parliament is aware of all the reports, of all the agreements on the Galician Fisheries Council. We could save the process that you and the committee use to criticize the People's Party again and to criticize the Galician Union again, which is what they always do with the committees, when we do it willingly so that we can get out of this House's agreement. And then point 6 is the most curious, it's the trap, as I say. When you present these GNPs with many points, you take advantage in some cases of a transfer of competences, a nationalisation... and, in this case, it is the presence of the political groups in the Galician Fisheries Council, the total instrumentalization in the Galician Fisheries Council, the 8th Commission in the Galician Fisheries Council. An independent council of the sector, which 90% themselves choose it, and you want me to go to a political representative of this Parliament there to tell you what to do! What is the reason that we are present at the Galego Fisheries Council? That they inform us of all their decisions and, as their decisions politically, we can debate here in Parliament what they decide. But you say in point 6 that one member of each Parliament party is present in that council. It's just that you, the Nationalist Block, the nationalist parties in general, always want to instrumentalize, mark leadership in all sectors, and this is a fact, it's very clear. This is a trap, it's a point that is very clear what you want to do, to get directly into the Galician Fisheries Council to control it. So as long as the Galician People's Party continues to govern and as the Greeks give us most to continue to govern, this council will remain independent and there will be freedom for the sector to decide without the Galician Nationalist Block wanting to instrument it all. [[Applause]] Finished, President. I'll say to finish that since the Brexit term has been heard, as I say, we've seen what was going on. He did it, his team, the Galician Union and this parliamentary group began to work on the hands of the most affected sectors. So we, as I said, the points from 1 to 4 believe that we can support them if you accept the point vote, because we believe that if it really is a defence of Galicia, of the interests of Galician fishing, but 5 we would only approve it with the modification of the wording that we have done, and 6 of course we will not accept it because there is really where you want to put the nationalist role in the whole sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u95	...of fishing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero, I know, we know, in the Galician Nationalist Block, that you, the PSdEG, in Galicia, have no reason for any celebration, both by the agreement of 15 and 16 December of the quotas and by the issue of Brexit. We also want to ask you not to put your trust in the Compensation Fund, because you have based much of your intervention on the Reserve Fund, on the Compensation Fund. For now -- I told you in my first intervention -- we see what the figures are. We'll see how they're finally left, but we're very afraid it's going to be the always fiasco for the Galician fleet. In any case, the Compensation Fund, however large it may be, cannot be the focus of attention. The main argument has to be to take the fleet forward, with the greatest possibilities for that fleet, because we have a lot to do with that, Mrs. Otero. Mrs. Egerique, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you don't appreciate my mood. I'm not angry with anyone, quite the contrary. It's bad that I say so, but I'm a very nice and very sociable person. But, Mrs. Egerique, I'm going to define exactly how I find myself and my group: outraged, absolutely outraged by the immobility and the submission of the board of Galicia on this subject. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the text phrase of the Fisheries Adviser: "You will have to consider fixing a minimum quota of fishermen to ensure their sustainability." You get confused about your concept -- the concept is the concept, Mrs. Egerique -- and you get confused again, this is what the People's Party calls it "Glebish retreat," Welsh retreat! [[Applause]] Mrs. Egerique, at this point, the argument that is used when there are no arguments -- we just saw it with the intervention of President Feijóo, who, when there are no arguments, has to resort to ETA, right? -- is that the Nationalist Block Galego can't teach you any lessons. It's just that the Galician Nationalist Block doesn't come here to teach anyone a lesson, and you, Mrs. Egerique, and your group, much less. What we've seen here is moving petitions and the concern of the fishing sector, and also making serious proposals, rigorous, laborious, thought-out and, of course, viable. [[Applause]] And of course, why not? They agree with points 1, 2, 3 and 4 because, of course, what this is about is asking, working, analyzing, mainly other administrations' work, but in no way -- if we don't get to it -- they're going to vote on point 6 favorably. Why? Because it's an exclusive competition from the German Government and then, there, don't touch it; there you can't touch it. You are just as sacred in certain things, or you attach certain principles more than the European Union itself to the theme of the principle of relative stability. Mrs. Egerique, being a member of the Galician Fisheries Council is no favor to us by the German Government. It is no grace granted by the Group of the People's Party. It is collected, Mrs Egerique, in the decree itself which regulates the functioning of the Galician Fisheries Council. And you say that the groups are on that Galego Fisheries Council would be instrumentalizing the Galego Fisheries Council. [[Applause]] You don't say that, in fact, the German Government itself, its advisor and certain representatives of its council, are already... No, not all groups, Mrs. Egerique. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not all groups. The German Government, indeed, the Executive, who belongs to a party, right? because it's not an abstract entity, it's not absolutely... well, it belongs to the same party that you belong to, and it's actually on the Galician Fisheries Council. And what are you doing at the Galician Fisheries Council? Instrumentalizing the decisions taken there; teledirecting them, Mrs. Egerique. [[Applause]] I want to end up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u98	Finish it, please, we're past.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u99	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this six-point proposal from the Galego Nationalist Block has been drawn up in time, strictly and with the seriousness it requires; a very serious issue indeed. This proposal does not consist simply of an enumeration of causes and, again, of a number of conjunctive proposals that lead us only to put patches on a boat that makes waters all over the place, never better said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u101	... -- finished, Mr. President --... We'd like to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u103	...that you, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, also considered it rigorously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u105	...and seriously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u106	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u107	As for the amendments, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u108	Man, as for the amendments, there was time, and we were already going by in a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u109	No, no, it's a sentence, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u110	Let's see if that's true. Come on, quickly, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u111	As for the Socialist Party, we are likely to take it into consideration. And as for the People's Party, we're still deciding.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u112	Good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u114	We'll stay the way we were. We'll see. [[Laughter]] Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] All right, all right. [[Murmurs.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of G.P. Popular, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Filgueira Tellado and eight other Members, on the actions to be carried out in collaboration with the Government of the State in order to ensure that the company Gamesa-Siemens maintains the activity of the Somozas plant
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u115	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u116	Thank you, President. Good day to all. I want to begin by showing, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, all our support for the 215 Siemens-Gamesa workers in the Somozas, affected by the ERE presented by the company. Today we present a non-law proposal with which we want the representatives of the workers to sit at the ERE negotiating table knowing that they have behind them the support of all Galicia expressed by this House, which represents the whole Greek people. Gamesa is a multinational of Basque origin, founded in 1976, mainly oriented to wind energy and the aeronautical sector. In 1997 he opened his Somozas plant dedicated to the construction of airfields. It's an installation that has two own names that we must not forget, two people who were involved in getting this company installed in the Somozas: the first, Manuel Cantocia, Mayor of the Somozas, and the second, Juan Fernández García, Industry Counsellor of a Union that was pioneering in the wind sector in Galicia. In 2017 the wind branch of Gamesa merged with the wind branch of Siemens to create Siemens-Gamesa Renewable. In this merger, the headquarters of society remained in the Basque Country. Iberdrola, one of Gamesa's main customers, remained with 8 % of the resulting company and Siemens remained with 59 % of the shareholding. After several clashes, Iberdrola decides to abandon the company’s shareholding and sell its assets to Siemens, which is being sold at the beginning of 2020. In September 2019 Siemens-Gamesa announced the start of negotiations with Senvion, one of the leading airlines sector. In January 2020 the acquisition of the European division of Senvion is completed, which means the acquisition of its Portuguese Vagos Pass factory, located between Coimbra and Porto; a ten-fold plant greater than that of Somozas and which has 1,400 workers. We are therefore witnessing the consequences of two phenomena: the first is the concentration in the sector of the construction of air carriers, the absorption or merger of companies on the other side; and the second, of course, the relocation of the sector. In the case of Siemens-Gamesa, in the Somozas, ladies and gentlemen, we are clearly faced with a case of relocation of a multinational that decides to close all its productive centers, dedicated to the manufacture of pass in Spain, to transfer its production to third countries; a relocation -- it must be said -- inadmissible, inadmissible! In July 2020 we saw the closure of your plant in Navarre and now the declared intention to close the Somozas and Cuenca centers. Siemens-Gamesa not only leaves Galicia, but leaves Spain; she goes to Portugal, looking for a tax and probably different labour costs. This march contradicted the Socialist Government's speech of commitment for renewables and for advance in the eco-transaction. What is the ecological transition that the Government of Spain presents to us, where the traditional industry is abandoned, where the thermal power plants are shut down 20 years before they have the obligation to do so and, at the same time, where the Government allows a plant to build productive wind passes, a competitive plant, such as the Somozas, to shut down without a solution of continuity? The ecological transition funds announced by the Government of Spain, but which so far do not arrive, should have shielded Siemens-Gamesa's continuity in the Somozas. We ask the Ministry of Labour, as a competent labour authority in a national ERE, to examine carefully the file submitted by the company, to examine whether the economic causes are actually given, or, if not, the company has on top of the table requests. It is true that the company brings organisational causes, it brings productive causes, but the final reasoning is that of an ERE for economic causes. The reality is that the company has orders on the table, it has proposals from Greek wind companies that would allow it to be charged with work; therefore, the argument made by Siemens-Gamesa is not supported to try to close its Somozas plant. And, as it is not supported, we ask the Ministry of Labour to act, because it has full competence in a national ERE; it acts and finds causes to fall, as was done in the case of Alcoa, an ERE which, of course, we believe is not from receipt. There are possible requests on the table, by the way, in which there was intermediation of the Government of Greece for its achievement and of those that there were active conversations at the time when it was announced that the intention was to close the Somozas plant. And I want to say this here today, at parliamentary headquarters, so that you can count on the Journal of Sessions and that this argument can be used by the company committee at the ERE negotiating table, because that ERE is not justified by the company. This group tells you that there are multiple-level conversations between the Galician Union and the company's management to find ways of collaboration that will allow the company to continue. From the Popular Group we've been interested in the situation of the Somozas plant for months. Our first talks with the chairman of the business committee are resumed in January 2020. On those dates, before the pandemic, the first concerns arose between the Siemens-Gamesa template due to the failure of orders; concerns which worsen in June with the closure of the Navarre plant and which, after the summer, are reinforced by the lack of new charges. In September 2020, the vice-president of this Parliament, Diego Calvo, and I did a visit to the Somozas plant; a visit which was, of course, difficult by the management of the company, which tried to prevent it repeatedly. Finally, we were able to carry it out. On that visit, the management of the plant assured us, in the presence of the workers' representatives, that there was no problem, that there was no reason for the concern. They lied to us. That's the reality. This crisis, the Siemens-Gamesa crisis, takes place, in addition, at a particularly difficult time in the district of Ferrolterra; a difficult moment in the naval sector that has no workload; a difficult moment also due to the closure of the thermal power plant of the bridges -- a closure with which we do not agree -- and a difficult moment also because of the situation in which the electro-intensive industry is found throughout our country, which also affects and could affect, even more, the district of Ferrolterra. The district of Ferrolterra cannot afford the luxury of closing Siemens-Gamesa's plant in Somozas, not only for the 315 jobs affected -- among those who have already left and those who would be affected by ERE now -- which would already be enough reason, but also for what it means for induced employment, which is not, of course, less important. On our initiative, Siemens-Gamesa's business committee of Somozas, what we demand is unity. If we really want to defend them, if we really want to support them, today we need to leave this House a unanimous position, a position of unity. And that's what we want with this initiative, which says the following: "To urge the Galician Council to demand the Siemens-Gamesa company that suspends the ERE from the Somozas plant and accepts the formation of a work table together with the Government of Spain, the Galician Board and the representation of the workers and the company that aims to find solutions that guarantee the viability and future of the plant. Secondly, to urge the Council of Galicia, in collaboration with the Government of the State, to use all the mechanisms at its disposal to ensure that Siemens-Gamesa kept the Somozas plant, betting for its modernization and the implementation of new industrial projects.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh It's a simple writing that clearly and clearly concludes with an unquestionable display of support to the company committee and the entire template. Governments must work by hand -- the Greek and also the Government of Spain --. I have to remember that the Galician Council has acted, it's been doing it for months, and the company committee knows. The Board sat with Siemens-Gamesa's management and made all offers of economic collaboration, financial collaboration and even collaboration in the search for possible contracts, mediating with Greek companies in the wind sector. So what we're trying to do is we can make one of the new bread models in Somozas installations that are in demand in the current windmill. That offer from the German Government continues to stand and will continue to stand until the last moment. It was expressed at several meetings with the company's management, managing contracts with potential customers who also put millionaire proposals on the table that would guarantee immediate workload for Siemens-Gamesa. So, if Siemens-Gamesa wants to leave, he knows that the decision is unacceptable and that we, of course, are going to make a decision with which we are not at all in agreement. The bottom line is that Siemens-Gamesa has decided to take out of Spain its production of pass, and we are what we ask the Government of Spain, especially the Ministry of Ecological Transition, is that he feels with the leadership of this multinational to condition any future possibility of this company in our country and that he reverses this closure decision. If anyone can do it, it's the Ministry of Ecological Transition, because their positions depend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u118	...many of Siemens-Gamesa's interests in Spain. I'm done, reiterating all our support for Siemens-Gamesa workers in the Somozas. From the People's Group we share your concern and will contribute to your struggle for continuing to produce passage from the district of Ferrolterra, as we have seen since 1997, and more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u119	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u120	...in this global ecological transition context where the wager for renewables is indisputable and where the district of Ferrolterra must be present.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u122	We asked the groups for a unanimous position to allow Siemens-Gamesa's business committee to be strong in its negotiations before the company's management. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u124	Thank you, President. Too bad that, Mr. Tellado, those commitments, with the company committee, those charges and all those issues don't give them in writing -- they're out there waiting, summoned by you, besides-- that they don't give them all that he says in writing, but that he's unable to transmit to them in writing, signed by the board of Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it's not an easy job, but we're still in time to brake what Siemens-Gamesa wants to do, which is making a wrong decision and which can lose a lot of business opportunities if we don't reconsider the decision to stop making windfalls on the Somozas plant. But for that we would need a German government determined to put on the table capacity and industrial policy in order to get this decision to change. For months we warned the People's Party that there was a difficult future for the Gamesa plant in the Somozas, but from the German Government they preferred to look the other way. It's nothing new. You're talking about their involvement since 2020, but it's not true; Vice-President Count has already received workers' representatives in 2018, who, at the meeting, warned the Head of Industrial Policy of the Government of an incipient process of relocation of industrial production to other territories, which Mr. Conde denied, but which, in the end, proved true. I still remember when we asked the director of the Igape about the situation at the factory, at the beginning of November last year, and he was unable to list some performances that were being carried out since the Government of the Galician Union; they only talked about new electric auctions and, as always, marking the central government, saying that the problems of the plant were derived from the climate of instability resulting from the uncertainties of the sector. I still have an initiative here by the People's Party itself, in which they asked for the involvement of the Government of the State, which should be realized when, how and under what conditions the thrusts of renewables were carried out. Once held, gentlemen of the People's Party, we saw that this was not the reason for Siemens, but that once again a gale factory was going to produce outside Galicia, because the Government of Galicia is incapable of our territory being attractive to economic activity. After asking the manager of the Igape, we asked the vice president, who, curiously, received the company committee, who had already forgotten it a day before just if he was asked here. And they tried again to throw responsibility for others, talking to us about energy policy, without putting any kind of initiative on the table by the self-government to try to anchor the production of Siemens-Gamesa in the Somozas. Only when the Central Government came out of the workers' demands was when we envisioned the existence of the Economic Vice-Presidentship of the Union, seconding as observers the position of the Central Government on a table where Siemens-Gamesa were asked to continue the production of wind passes in Spain, and placed on the table the Spanish wager for renewable energies, with a particularly favourable context for the sector for all the opportunities offered by the energy transition. Last week the company again sat with the workers at the second meeting and today they're back together, and, as we told them in the Industry Committee, it's not too late to convince Siemens-Gamesa that he needs to analyze the feasibility options that there are alternatives to closure, because since a collaboration with the administrations can take advantage and optimize the opportunities for industrial development and energy transition towards plant maintenance. Spain has an important potential for renewable energy, a chain of consolidated value and capacity to grow and generate sustainable and quality jobs. The accelerated and orderly development of renewables and the energy transition are pillars of the Plan of Reactivation, Transformation and Resilience for the industrialization of the Spanish economy and for the reactivation of activity and employment. In this sense, from the state is working intensively, together with companies and innovation centres, to provide a stable and attractive framework for investment and job creation linked to renewables, with the giving of an important battery of accompanying measures to the sector; a composite framework, among others, by the National Climate Energy Plan 2021-2030, which provides for the installation of 60 new renewable energy gigabytes in the next decade; the Long-Term Discarbonization Strategy; the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, in parliamentary processing, as well as the creation of the Institute for the Right Transition; the approval of the renewable hydrogen roadmap; the convening of new renewable energy pumps, with a redistributive framework and an objective of 3,000 megabytes of which, at least, 1,000 must be wind-terrestrial, and the sectoral agenda of the wind industry, because it is also about to approve the Marine Ecological Strategy, which provides for the allocation of funds of this recovery plan to facilitate its implementation. Siemens must understand that, in order to participate in this process of what he was talking about, he must give continuity to the activity and jobs of the 300 families in the district of Ferrolterra, which in the Somozas has guaranteed, in addition, a highly qualified template for the development of wind projects, with great quality in design and manufacture and which guarantees serious delivery of requests in the times marked by customers. From the Galician Junta they must make a strong commitment to the competitiveness of the Galician plant so that those issues that place above the Siemens-Gamesa table as motivations of the ERE -- Mr Tellado -- to close the facilities of the Somozas, such as the deficits in the infrastructures for the transport of goods from the factory to the port of Ferrol -- which are within the competence of the Siemens-Gamesa table -- must be sure that they are not a real problem for competitiveness, and that support for the development of the R & D+i and for the modernization and adaptation of the factory is guaranteed with the support of the Galician Junta based on industrial competences, and all that is supported by the Government of Spain and the projects I mentioned earlier. In Galicia they have planned more than to double the accumulated power in our territory in the next ten years. On the other day, in a proposal from our group, in a motion that was trying to promote a better redistribution of wind benefits and balance negotiations between owners and promoters, the People's Party accused us of trying to torpeat Galicia's wind development; and it turns out that you are unable to talk about these issues, while being unable to have a company like Siemens-Gamesa maintain its activity in Galicia. What is it for whom is the benefit, gentlemen of the People's Party, with this increase of installed power that is albiscized and with the opportunity that arises with the marine wind and its possible deployment in Galicia, one more attractive so that a European company at this level would not choose to relocate its production? It could also be opted for the millions of aids that could come from Europe if there were any projects linked to the factory, and that could be an opportunity to maintain its activity. But today we are still unaware of whether the Government of the Galician Union has linked the wind sector to any of the 108 projects announced to the media to try to turn to those funds, whether there are such projects or simply wet paper. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it takes involvement, strategy, equipment, personnel and a lot of dedication to make industrial politics; but you give up making it by hiding as a little child behind the Government of the State, since up to now it is the only one that is providing political capacity, negotiation and strategy to try to maintain industrial activity, as is happening in the case of Alcoa or in the case of the Bridges. And we also agree that from the state they can and should collaborate with the powers they have in energy policy. But they don't give up their skills in industrial policy. There's still time to make Siemens-Gamesa understand that he's making a wrong decision. So on the other day, we took an initiative to the Commission asking the Government of Galicia to draw up a document guaranteeing the feasibility of the Siemens-Gamesa plant in Somozas, including support for the resolution of the issues raised by the company as a reason for the closure of the facilities, such as works on the autonomous road infrastructures for the transport of material and communication with the port of Ferrol, and public support for the development of R & D+i for the modernization of the factory. From the People's Party they voted against our initiative and they were unable to bring this document to the company committee, although Mr. Tellado promised the workers that they had a second meeting of the consultation period without the promised document, and today they are again having a meeting without the promised document. That's why you've got to come and say you've got to take this full record. Today we ask them to do it again, to help the workers to pass on to the company that is not motivated by the ERE, because, according to the document submitted by the workers and signed by the Galician Union, there are no reasons in road infrastructures and at R+D+i to put an end to the activity at the Somozas plant; but you are unable to do something as simple as signing them or making a document that puts these things that you say are already done. [[Applause]] Whatever it is -- because you fill the mouths of talking about commitments, but then they don't carry out any -- gentlemen of the People's Party, we already announce that we will vote in favour of the initiative presented, because, as you said, it's very simple, it's just issues that anyone could agree on, because, in addition, we are not like you, and as you demonstrated in the Commission, that you simply vote with a partisan view. We prefer to do so with country vision and vote in favour of this proposal, even if it's from the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u126	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wanted to send a fraternal greeting to the Siemens-Gamesa staff who, while this debate takes place, are gathered in Madrid at the ERE-extinctive negotiating table. By the way, an ERE that the People's Party insists that it is controlled by the Ministry as long as it is the competent labour authority, and the PSOE, who could answer, even sooner or later, that after the labour reform approved by the PP, the ministries and labour inspectorate paint very little in the control of the ERE and, of course, have no ability to paralyse or deny dismissals, shut up and do not complain, because it is in his hand to derogate labour reform and do not do so. And now what happens, whether governments paint little or nothing in the ERE, be those that are the economic and social consequences for a territory or for a region, as in this case. In the district of Ferrol we know well the effects of the reform of the PP: Poligal went to Portugal and Novamadera to Mexico, and in both cases the courts ruled that everything had been done according to law. In any case, whenever this debate is taking place, we argue from the BNG that the solution to problems like this is linked to the installation of wind farms in Galicia to the promotion of parks carrying associated industrial projects. A proposal that we make extended, in addition, to those wind parks that, since they are more than 50 megawatts of power, are competition from the state government; a proposal based on the crazy idea that since we have the wind and the mountains, we bear the visual, environmental and social impact that means parks and all the infrastructure needed to channel energy, we should earn something in return; something like a country, something like a society that knows how to value its resources, in which, indeed, they are worth and exploit them or give them in exchange for a fair price, in exchange for a return in the form of companies, wealth and work, which generate some kind of benefit, directly and indirectly, for all the Galicians and the Galicians, for the people of Greece as a whole; a proposal that is being rejected in all cases by the People's Party and in any case with the abstention of the PSOE and that, on some occasion, has even caused absurd jokes about putting it into the wind. The wind that turns out to be -- who would say it! -- an energy resource of first magnitude, a resource that can be monetaryized, which can become euro cash and sounding, which produces wealth where there is it, and it turns out that there is it here. What there is, what we don't have, are governments willing to put that resource into the service of the people and society that owns it, because this is the truth: the resource is ours and we have the right to take advantage of it, even though this claim may seem almost revolutionary to certain sectors, in a Spanish state where energy resources have always been sources of private wealth from large companies. But the lack of specific projects on the part of the People's Party for Energy Development doesn't mean it doesn't have a known or recognizable policy. For the People's Party what is of all is not one's and can therefore be used for the particular benefit of those who have the favor of governments; and in this is their energy policy: free bar for businesses, without conditions. The position of the political forces that sustains the governments of Greece and the state must change substantially in this regard if they want to prove with facts that there is something certain in the speeches of economic reactivation that we hear, that we really are the people the center of politics, that this will not be another crisis that big corporations use for their particular profit regardless of anything else. And for this, governments and political forces that give them parliamentary support must, once and for all, access to the regular use of normative power that they have -- that we have -- to actually make our resources available to us. The Siemens-Gamesa itself, which closes in the Somozas but settles in France, is indicating to us by its behavior what we have to do. Wind projects in France include clauses of what they call "local production fee". Navantia itself had to guarantee two years of work for 250 people in the port of Brest in order to be able to participate in the contract of the Saint-Brieuc project's jackpots. Galicia can't let this chance pass. With a forecast to pass from 3,700 to 13,700 megawatts of wind power, which means almost quadrupling the current installed wind power, the Greek political forces should be able to give a calm, deep and serious debate on which is the best way to take advantage of this opportunity, because it is not acceptable that in full wind boom it will close one of the few factories of components left in Galicia. Because about this we should already have agreements; agreements on which is the best way to draw a social performance from this energy resource, on how to take advantage of this wind boom to consolidate companies, jobs, knowledge, wealth... linked to the entire chain of value, the entire production process linked to the installation and operation of wind farms. BNG has a well-known proposal that we repeat: linking government authorizations for the installation of wind farms to which industrial projects are associated. We honestly do not know the proposals or ideas of the PP or the PSOE, because the proposals that both PP and PSOE bring to this Parliament, the collation of the problem of Siemens-Gamesa factory in Somozas, consist of reincidating in the old policies of particular negotiations, where governments acquire commitments with companies to secure infrastructures, to carry out investments and even charges without counterbalance at all, without reciprocal commitments. It's not okay, it's not working. The demonstration has it in the same case: Siemens-Gamesa has already been offered public aid, but he does not want it; he wants to go and produce it in another country and certainly is not the first company to shift production, to close and leave after receiving subsidies or other government advantages. But in addition, this way of action is not transparent. These particular negotiations are contrary to any principle of equal opportunities for the different operators or companies that might be interested in knowing the conditions. Certainly, we cannot continue to bet on these failed policies. Galicia can't afford to miss one of the great opportunities we count on. We need to make sure that companies want to take advantage of our resources privately by means of reciprocity, by means of a social and collective economic return. But we have more proposals that would also have a major impact on the creation of wealth from the exploits of energy resources: the creation of a Greek energy company, a public company. You also come forward with this proposal from BNG without serious arguments, with trivialities: "which are outdated models." But the fact is that Enel, the owner of Endesa, is a public company; the fact is that there are public energy companies in the partner states of the European Union; the fact is that Endesa won, while it was public, billions; the fact is that private companies closely linked to Galicia, like Fenosa, also gained impressive profits from the public concession account. So there seems to be no rational argument to stand against the creation of a public energy company that concentrates the energy assets of Galicia and generates wealth in Galicia, not only through the exploitation of energy resources, both hydraulic and wind, but also directing the demand for goods and services that it needs to operate towards factories and businesses of Greece. These are our proposals, our alternatives to consolidate industries linked to the exploitation of our resources. We call both PP and PSOE to abandon free bar policy to companies, without social returns -- a policy that at each step is shown to fail -- to explore other possibilities. We can't afford to keep these policies, because they lead us to ruin. It's a fact. We call on the governments of Greece and the state to change the step, to design a system of taking advantage of the opportunities and energy resources at the service of people and not of the results accounts of large corporations. It's urgent! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u128	Thank you, President. I understand the support of both groups, although the spokesman for the Nationalist Block did not explicitly say so, but I understand that it is a proposal shared by all. Therefore, we should be grateful that both the Galician Nationalist Block and the PSdG-PSOE support this initiative brought by the People's Party. I think, Mr. Seco, you're wrong about the enemy. Come here and see if you can attack the People's Party, the Galician Union... it's wrong to be an enemy. Here is a common enemy, called Siemens-Gamesa, and a decision has to be reversed. However, you come here to demagogy, to blame those who have been defending the interests of Siemens-Gamesa workers in Ferrolterra. I ask him to abandon sectarianism, for he said a sentence which, in addition, perfectly distorted it: support I don't know what, even if proposed by the People's Party. We're not for that! We didn't come here to fight between us, we came here to defend Galicia's interests! And when we all support Galicia's interests, Galicia comes out reinforced. But you come here to defend the Government of Sánchez. No one touches Sanchez! No one criticizes me Pedro Sanchez! The Galician Union has acted from the very first moment. So I have to say: how sad is the PSdG-PSOE posture, which comes here to share guilt. It's the company's fault. And what we have to talk about is what each one of us can do from where he is, from the German Government and also from the Spanish Government. That is why we urge the Government of Greece and the Government of Spain. But you come here and say, "Well, the Government of Spain has no blame. That's what you can do." I don't want to come with reproach. Here if there was no initiative, an institutional statement in support of Siemens-Gamesa in September was because you didn't want it yourself. So if there was no unanimous positioning before it was because you didn't allow it. The letter that the company committee asked for, what I have to tell you is that a few minutes ago the councillor was meeting with them in the downstairs room, and he committed himself to sending her this same day to the Ministry of Labour. Because the labour authority in this ERE is the Ministry of Labour. And we have a background, which is what happened in the case of Alcoa. But in the case of Alcoa, as it only affected a work centre located in Galicia, the labor authority was Junta. And arguing and demonstrating the company's bad faith, we stop that ERE. Now what we ask the Ministry of Labour is to do the same with an ERE that depends on the Government of Spain, that the Ministry of Labour can stop it as a labor authority, and report that the company has acted and is acting in bad faith. The enemy, the rival we have to face, Mr. Seco, is the company. Who can fall that ERE is the labour authority, which is the Ministry of Labour. And who can talk to the company and convince them not to go to their Spanish Pass Construction Plants is the Ministry of Ecological Transition, because Siemens-Gamesa has a lot of other interests in Spain. Therefore, who can condition the maintenance of the activity of the Welsh plant, and also of the Cuenca plant, is the Government of Spain; what he has to have is interested in doing so. How come we haven't done things? From the German Government there was offered an economic bet, a financial bet, management for the achievement of contracts, which are on the table, of a Welsh wind. It was the first one to charge you with 25 million euros for the next two years; a contract that can be extended by two and two others. We would be talking about 75 million euros on requests for six years. So, of course, the Galician Union was involved from the very first moment. Who hasn't done anything yet about this crisis is the Government of Spain, either from the Ministry of Ecological Transition or from the Ministry of Labour. We, the German Government, have widened a road so that the passes can get out of Siemens-Gamesa and reach port for their export. And now we're working to remove the curves that would prevent the larger step output. In this work, in which you've worked for years, everything is done: the project, the expropriations... is now called; it's EUR 500,000. This game came in the budgets of the Galician Union for this year 2021. Do you know what you've done with the budgets and that match? Vote against it. So here we come to treat each other, this is neither the place nor the moment. What we have to do here is to be united and defend a territory severely punished by decisions by the Government of Spain in the naval sector, the closure of the thermals, the electrointensives and now Siemens-Gamesa. Don't you guys support the ecological transition so much? Put money on the table! Or will they let this plant go, as it seems? We, of course, from the Galician Union, are going to work everywhere to reverse Siemens-Gamesa's decision and get that plant to remain open and to remain in operation, and that those jobs are kept, because Ferrol can't even lose a job anymore. Each one of them does! In any case, I thank you that today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u130	...in spite of all the controversy, opposition groups, the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block vote in favour of this initiative, because it is the least we owe to Siemens-Gamesa workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangéna Fernández and two other Members, on the demand to the Galician Council for the use of the necessary mechanisms to develop a plan for the industrialization of Ferrolterra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u132	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Mr Miguel Tellado Filgueira, in accordance with Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment:The text of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Participate, together with the Government of Spain, in the Bureau of Work promoted by the municipalities and social agents of Ferrolterra to promote a genuine reindustrialization of the districts of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal.2. Express their support for the demands that motivate the summoning of a Commercial Folga in Ferrolterra for the next 10 March, in demand of immediate workload for shipyards in the Ferrol River.3. Continue to collaborate with Navantia's leadership in the development of the Starry 4.0, urging the Central Government to initiate the investments necessary for the immediate execution of the covered dam.4. Addressing the Government of Spain to claim once again the charge of a bridge ship by the Ministry of Defence to enable activity to be provided to the Navantia Fene-Ferrol yard while not starting the cut-off of the Fragates F-110, and avoiding the loss of jobs in the auxiliary industry.5. To ask Siemens Gamesa to immediately suspend the ERE of the Somozas Plant and accept the formation of a joint working table with the Government of Spain, the Galician Board and the representation of the employees of the company, which aims to find solutions that guarantee the viability and future of the plant, involving both administrations in the search for mechanisms that make possible the modernization of the Somozas plant. plant, involving both administrations in the search for mechanisms that make possible the modernization of the Somozas plant.6. To address the Government of Spain so that, in the field of its exclusive powers in the field of energy, it will ensure the continuity of the Central of the Bridges, guiding its activity towards biofuels, ensuring direct and indirect employment.7. Addressing the Government of Spain by calling for a review of the recently approved Statute of the Electrointensive Consumer to ensure that the electrointensive industries located in Galicia remain competitive."]] Mr. Seco García has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. We don't see enemies, Mr. Tellado, not even a company that has 5,000 jobs in Spain; we see precisely the ability or not politics to change their decisions. We are immersed in a strong economic crisis -- as we all know -- the fruit of a pandemic that affects not only health but also our economic, social and cultural activity. In the case of Galicia, we are probably talking about a fall in the gross domestic product of ten percent by 2020. And this situation, which hits all over our territory, has a special impact on the industrial crisis that is suffering from the ferrol, the Eume and Ortegal whispers. The structural problems of these bars -- all of them neglected and without seeking a solution during the twelve years of the Government of Beijóo -- are compounded by time, without you being able to articulate any kind of strategy and project that can reverse this situation from its exclusive industrial competences. The problems he was talking about did not generate any concern during the decades of the People's Party's government in Galicia. A government that daily demonstrates its inability to foster some new activity to attract investments from existing companies, anchor the production of those already installed here, or that it bets on research, innovation and entrepreneurship. Nothing, gentlemen of the People's Party. You are simply spectators of what happens around you, and you try to advertise as your own the only entrepreneurial successes of a couple of multinationals. In industrial matters, in the successive governments of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, nothing more and nothing less than 23,000 jobs, and probably some more already. And in the past, the industrial production index fell by 2.5 %, compared to the drop by 0.4 % in the rest of Spain. The German industrial job was in 2009, when Feijóo arrived to the government, 7.1% of the whole in Spain, and we went down to 6.6% in 2019. The industry in Galicia rubs out with the People's Party, companies fall and others no longer hold hold hold of it, even though yesterday vice-president Conde ends up with some alleged successes because he has fallen less than other territories in this crisis. There are successes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: don't be the worst in the fall! Don't think they're one of the best on the rise! Every day we attend relocations that you're trying to deny. I recall the relocation of EMESA profiler in Sabón, bought by a owner who took advantage of the experience and ability of the template he had in Galicia to activate production abroad and end up emptying and delocalizing all production towards Portugal. All this in front of the eyes of a Galician board that promised investors and that they were unable to stop the intent of closing a plant with orders and customers in countries of the north of Europe. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, according to Vice President Conde, in Galicia there is no relocation of companies, and curiously this case is very similar to what we are living in Somozas. You approved the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda in 2015 -- my partner said yesterday -- and put in it two main goals until 2020: an industrial sector growth to 20% of the German GDP and the creation of 50,000 new jobs in the industry. I don't need to remind them of what the results are, and I don't want to remind them of how they have the Igape in a terrible situation of underutilization, when only 160 million of the 306 million they had for the triennium that goes from 2016 to 2018. This situation cannot continue. Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal comarcas can no longer. Endesa's announcement of closure at the Bridges is a situation that should have been in the forecasts of the German Government, who should have been working long enough to activate industrial alternatives when coal consumption at the Bridges is over. This is driven by the lack of competitiveness in demand coverage by changing market conditions, with a substantial increase in CO2 rights prices and a significant fall in gas prices. And with this we find ourselves then that since the Greek Government they are incapable of doing anything at all, just sitting on a table waiting for what the state can do. A state government that, like in the search for solutions for Alcoa, is also involved in the search for a solution for The Bridges. He thought there was always a People's Party more concerned about finding culprits and excuses for the problems than for finding solutions! Something that became manifest with an electro-intensive status that was vital, and the cause of the closure for Alcoa and also for the People's Party; the curious thing is that it wasn't for Liberty to be interested in the Navy plant. From the Government they have announced support for the Biofuel Project at the bridge center, putting on the table, in addition, lines of support for business projects that generate employment in small investment projects of just transition zones worth EUR 30 million, such as in this case and in Meirama. Another line to support business initiatives aimed at creating sustainable employment and promoting economic activity in municipalities affected by the closure of coal power plants worth EUR 7 million. They carried out the periodicization of these areas in the call for aid to renewable energy projects, and on this line aid was granted of 8.4 million for renewable thermal installations and another 12 million for electrical installations. They presented a package of specific measures for the right transition areas within the European Union's recovery, transformation and resilience plan worth EUR 300 million. And in the renewable hydrogen roadmap they grant special interest to the just transition areas and they have received -- as we all know -- project proposals both at the Bridges and in Meirama. What did the Government of Galician Union, gentlemen of the People's Party do? You want me to tell you? Absolutely nothing! Anyway, from our group we believe it is necessary for state and autonomous administrations -- as Mr. Tellado said -- to work together in a clear commitment to the continuity of employment at the Bridges, with a combustion project that is technically and environmentally endorsed by the Technical Committee of the Bridge Bureau. And it must be a project that has secured an operator to carry out, gentlemen of the Galician Union, and in addition that the Galician Union puts it on the table to opt for European recovery funds, betting on the circular economy and the production of clean energy from the installations of the bridge, in addition to administrative and financial commitment to support it. The curious thing is that yesterday Vice-President Conde was almost appropriate to this proposal. And then we heard the rural councillor say on several occasions that the Galician Union would not fully support any project that could opt for recovery funds where biofuels were burned. That was said in front of us. What a curious support, gentlemen of the People's Party! Are you going through neighborhoods support, depending on the government, to this project? But Ferrolterra needs certainty and knows if the government is really committed to the project that can give continuity to activity and employment in the Bridges. I'm not going to have any more impact on the case of Gamesa-Siemens, where they're incapable -- and see what the vice president is doing now -- to give some solution to the plant, and they're even unable to sign that document they ask from the company committee. And as far as Navantia is concerned, this is a public company that left the Government of the Rajoy People's Party in 2018 in a technical breakdown; it dives itself in the matter of dissolution, according to the Capital Corporations Act. And this central government had to rescue her from an industrial plan signed with the workers, along with the historic commitment of this government, which brought out a project as important as the construction of the F-110 frigates. I project that the People's Party had put in a drawer for the particular interests of its Minister of Defense, Mr. Morenés, who are the cause of the delay that today leaves the yard unloaded. It is necessary to take the necessary measures to maintain the activity and modernise the said yard. And we need to act from the competences of the training board to also equip workers with recycling assistants and supplements in periods of inactivity generated by this unloaded space. For all this, from the Socialist Group, we have, from the Socialist Group, brought out comprehensive and real actions from the Government of the Government of Galicia, using the industrial skills of the Administration of the Galician Administration to participate more actively in the development of the Railway Station 4.0 de Ferrol, which include projects for the collection of European reconstruction funds in the railway yards; to develop an industrial plan for the region of Ferrolterra, to develop the industrial skills of the Administration of the Administration of the Faeroland Administration to be more actively involved in the development of the Railway Station 4.0 Railway Station, which include projects for the collection of European rebuilding European reconstruction funds in the railway yard; to develop an industrial plan for the region of Ferrolterra Kingdom, to develop an industrial plan of industrial activities linked to the region of Ferrooilland, so that they carry out a formative plan for workers of the auxiliary industry auxiliary industries, industry and industry, industry and industrial soil; to develop themselves actively into the labour force plan of work, and industrial activities linked to the United Kingdom of the United States, the Government of the Government of the United States of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the United Government of the United Government of the United Government of the moment, and the United Government of the United Government of Europe of Europe of Europe of Europe of Europe of Europe, and the European, and its role of Europe of Europe of Europe of Europe and its role, and its role, and the local governments of the local governments of the local, and the Local, and the Local, the local, and the local, the local, and the local, and the local, the local, the local, and the local, the local governments of the local, and their role of the local, and their role of the local, the local, and their role of the local, and their role of the local, and their role of the local, and their role, and their industrial, and their industrial and their industrial, and their industrial, their representation, and their industrial, and their representation and their industrial, their representation, their representation and their representation, their representation, their representation, their representation and their representation and their representation and their representation, their representation and their representation, their representation, their representation, their representation, and their representation of, and their industrial, and their industrial, their industrial, and their representation, and their industrial, their representation, and their representation, their Don't be mistaken -- I told you before -- we do put our duty on the central government; it's a pity you don't put them on the government that's right in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u134	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Tellado Filgueira speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u135	Thank you, President. Good day again. Mr. Seco spoke a lot about the Bridges and then on the initiative, in the resolution part, he doesn't put duties on the Government of Spain about what to do on the Bridges. Fuck! He forgot, of course! I know this upsets the Galician Nationalist Block a bit, but I'm going to say it because it's a historical reality. Ferrol is a city that is born as such, as a city, in the eighteenth century, in the service of the Crown, in the service of the State, in the service of Spain. Ferrol was born with the construction of a large military arsenal and yards in the service of the Spanish Navy, and the enclave was chosen by the orography itself of an unexhaustible creek. Ferrol is, from then on, a city serving the state and dependent on the state. And so it remains three centuries later despite the multiple ship conversions driven by socialist governments, which never converted anything; conversions that supposed to fire workers for hundreds, fire workers for thousands, limit productive capacity, exclude us from markets in which we were competitive. [[Murmurs.]] We have always been, Mr Seco, a currency of change for socialist governments: first, to enter the European Union and then to divert the burden of work from Andalusia, the electoral feud of the Socialist Party. Ferrol always paid for broken dishes. Today there are four emergencies that have the territory of Ferrolterra; four emergencies that you have just spoken of. There are four problems directly affecting the territory of Ferrolterra at the moment: the first, the total absence of workload in Navantia Fene-Ferrol; the second, the early and unjustified closure of the thermal power plant at the Bridges; the third, the relocation of Siemens-Gamesa, which leaves Spain and intends to close its Somoza plant, and the fourth, the lack of a competitive price for the electrointensive industry, which affects the district of Ferrol and can still affect much more if it is not resolved as soon as the revision of that statute of the electrointensive industry. These are the four problems. You from the Bridges are distancing; in his initiative nothing appears. That's why we are presenting a replacement amendment that improves, clarifys and sets out the points and commas in the concrete agreements that we must push if we really want to defend the territory of Ferrolterra. In Ferrol every time we hear a socialist talk about new industrialization plans we start shaking. That battle has already told us so many times the socialists, so many! since the 1980s, and it has always been to cover with these plans hundreds of layoffs, smoke curtains, distractions maneuvers. If what we want to fix, fix easily. Of course, all administrations have to contribute to get Ferrol out of this crisis. All!, but each in his field of competence. The Government of Spain has in its hands to put solutions to Ferrol's situation, clearly, in a council of ministers, on Tuesday. There's nothing to do here. The next Tuesday at the Council of Ministers can solve almost all of Ferrol's problems. Of course, Junta also has to bet on improvements in infrastructure and on new investment bets. But the reality is that everyone has to be involved. Also the municipalities, also the Provincial Parliament, all administrations and, in particular, the Government of Spain. Let's not try to hide with a new plan that the Government of Spain can solve all the problems if it's willing to do so. Unless we take the people's hair off and tell them it's the Galician Board you have to take a strawberry off the yards of the Ferrol River. Let's not take the hair off people, let's not tell them it's the Union that has to solve the situation in the naval sector. I would like to repair the situation in which the shipbuilding sector is especially at present, at the door of hundreds of assistant workers being fired by the completion of the current workload. When we arrived at the Government of Spain in 2011, we found ourselves with shipyards that did not have a single contract in the previous five years. Since we arrived in the Government in 2011, we got the fleet, we got the transformation of ships, we've assigned a BAM to the Spanish Navy, what we asked the Government of Spain now! The Government of the People's Party has already done so at its own time: a BAM for the Spanish Navy! And we reopened the old Astano!, betting for the marine wind. We're opening it!; it would be closed by a socialist Government. And most importantly, we started a future project for Navantia-Ferrol, like frigates F-110. Yes, gentlemen, at Ferrol we make warships. First, for the Spanish Navy, and then, demonstrating the potential for shipbuilding, let's sell them to the armies of other countries. In 2014, with the People's Party government, the Starry 4.0 project began, an integral modernization program of the factories that aims to transform an 18th century yard into a yard of the 21st century. We started it in the F-110 program. In addition, I submitted the collaboration of the Greek institutions: the Galician Union, through the Industry Council, and the University of Coruña, with the launch of a joint research unit to design that yard of the future. Four hundred million euros; that's the investment that was perfectly programmed in the programming of the F-110 frigate program. But what happened? It is that in 2018 the Government of Pedro Sánchez arrives, and stops everything. You can tell me about Morenés whatever you want, but it's just that you've been ruling since June 2018, and since June 2018 you've been delaying the F-110 frigate project. They delayed the order of execution of the ship more than a year so they could announce it in the middle of an election campaign. It's true that they announced it, but they didn't do anything either, because the frigates don't move forward and there won't be a cut until mid-2022. And in the meantime, the workers of the assistants to whom they dedicate themselves, Mr. Seco? Why did many of these companies, in addition to working inside Navantia, work at the power station, in the maintenance of the power station you closed in April 2019? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in this context, what have we done? To demand that the Government of Spain charge a BAM for it to be built, or an AOR, on the shipyards of the Ferrol River. We proposed it in multiple places. Do you know what's going on? When proposed in the municipalities of the district of Ferrol, the Socialist Party votes in favour; when proposed in the Parliament of Galicia, the Socialist Party abstained, and when debated in the Congress of Deputies, the Socialist Party votes 'no'. But are we here to sue the Socialist Party? [[Applause]] If you want to solve Ferrol's problem, you can fix it on Tuesday next week at the Council of Ministers! It's a hundred and sixty million euros, or two hundred people prefer an AOR. Why don't they? But how do you come here to tell the Galician Council that you have to fix the problem of the naval sector in the Ferrol River? If you fix the naval sector, you fix the whole territory of Ferrolterra! because the region depends exclusively on an industrial monoculture. We all live from the same thing, from the naval sector. Not only do they not want to do the BAM, but, in addition, the orders that were on the table, such as that load of frigates for the United States, they lost it to the Navantia Directorate, in the hands of an agronomous engineer; a contract that was perfectly directed to get it from the Navantia-Ferrol shipyards. February 2018, headline: "United States elects Navantia to design their new frigates." Daily headline El País, May 2020: "Navantia loses the large Pentagon frigate contract". In good time, Mr. Seco! I also wanted to talk about the Bridges, because you didn't want to talk. If we're talking today about the closure of the bridge thermal power plant, it's because there was a government that decided to precipitate those locks. You say the Galician Union wasn't ready! Of course, how will you be ready in 2019 for something that had to happen in the year 2035 and that you rushed? [[Murmurs.]] Look: the company's plans were to continue the activity of the bridge thermal power plant until the year 2045. This is why Endesa invested EUR 218 million in adapting the bridge thermal power plant to the emission control requirements of the European Union. The company wanted to follow, the government forced her to close! You read the statements of the Minister of Ecological Transition that said the thermal power stations had to close. How did they provoke it? Through the tax mechanism; leaving out of the electricity market production by coal. And that's the responsibility of the Socialist Party; applauded, moreover, for what we see, for the PSdEG-PSOE. That's neither transition nor fair. And the truth is that Endesa has allowed the development of the entire Eume region for decades, and you've destroyed everything. The Bridges are the second municipality in Galicia with the highest per capita income after Oleiros. The Bridges, Galician Town Hall with the highest average pension in all of Galicia, and you're done with it! That's why the Socialist Party forgets to talk about the Bridges on its own initiative, to cover up those shames. That's neither transition nor fair. We tabled an amendment with seven agreements: The first one, to urge the Galician Union to participate, together with the Government of Spain, in the work table promoted by the municipalities and social agents to promote a genuine reindustrialization of the districts of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal. The second issue is to support the comarcal strike called by social agents and the county councils by 10 March. The third one, to continue working with Navantia's Directorate in the Development of Starry 4.0, because that's Ferrol's future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u137	The fourth, to go to the Government of Spain to claim, once again, the commission of a bridge ship by the Ministry of Defence, which allows the shipyard of Navantia Ferrol to be active, while not starting the plate cut of frigates F-110. Fifth, ask Siemens-Gamesa to immediately suspend the ERE from the Somozas plant and agree to form a work table with all governments. Six, go to the Government of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u138	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u139	...to ensure, in the field of its exclusive power powers, the continuity of the bridge power station, orienting its activity towards biofuels. And the seventh, the revision of the statute of the electro-intensive consumer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u141	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u142	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good again. The Ministry of Defence and Fairy, like the SEPI Directorate and the Navantia Directorate, are PSOE. I mean, you send them to Navantia. They send in a public company that has a center in the Ferrol River that has 1,800,000 square meters of useful surface and 6,430 meters of docks. Do you have any idea what this is? Fifteen times Barriers, fifteen times the largest private yard in the Spanish state! And everything is public property. Where they got to work 15,000 people today there's a workload for 400. And -- I insist -- you send. To what extent is it not even offensive that you bring here the debate an initiative to industrialize Ferrol? What does that mean? Do we have to vote that if the Spanish Government, Sepi and Navantia are to work on a plan? And then what have they been doing so far? Would it not be more logical for you to present a plan that has already been drawn up, something like: "The Government of Spain, Sepi and the management of Navantia have this plan, with this budget, and they need the collaboration of the Board for this, this and this"? What they let see, by their way of acting, is that they have nothing! But they have to do what they do -- like the mayor of Ferrol --. And given the current critical circumstances, and knowing the precedents, it would even be understandable that many people would feel offended by the frivolity with which they deal with such serious matters. In a previous speech on Navantia, I myself reported from this rostrum that Navantia's management is about to sign a contract to provide Iberdrola with monopolises for five years, which means actually giving up the floating marine wind propeller, precisely the one that has more added value and that there is going to be a demand in Europe as to occupy the facilities of Fene, the outer port and several metal companies all over Galicia for ten years. What do you think of this? Tell us something, please, in your reply, because we are also dealing with this, on the initiative of the BNG, at the meeting of the Industry Committee on Wednesday last week. We are deeply concerned that Navantia can give up on an activity, such as the floating marine wind turbine, so that Windar, a private company, can carry out these monopaths for Iberdrola at Fene's facilities. And it is a scandal that the same political force that allows this to present an initiative in which it urges the Union to make a plan to capture activities linked to the marine wind. I insist, please, clear this up! I also take this opportunity to call for urgent action by the People's Party and the Union in complying with the agreements taken in this Parliament, on the initiative of the BNG, on the transformation of the Galician vessel, and on the agreement that last week was adopted in the Committee on Industry, in which we urged the Union to call for its entry into the Navantia Board of Directors; to ask the Government of the State to set up a table for diversification of activities in the yards; to equip the plant with management turbines and own resources for the definition of new products intended for the renewable energy sector, in general, and to encourage its participation in marine wind contracts, in particular; and to introduce the turbine factory in those segments of activities related to the new sustainable models of maritime mobility. The ship's transformation works and the constitution of that work table to deal with these issues are fundamental and urgent -- I insist --. Now I'm going to try to sum up the reasons why BNG insists so much on defending shipbuilding, even the risk of giving the impression that we are discarding other industrial and employment possibilities -- which is, of course, not true, and there are, for example, our proposals to take advantage of energy resources or our demands to re-enter the Ferrol River --. But there's no incentive to bring Ferrol a company that can give direct employment to more than 2,000 people, which is the minimum number of people who occupy a large-scale ship such as those in Navantia. Shipbuilding is diversified in itself, because it integrates a very large number of different activities into the construction of the ship -- some of them technologically advanced --. The multiplier effect on the economy is four and a half euros per euro, above the average of the rest of the industry. And in addition, most contracts are for export, which means in economic terms. According to data from Navantia itself of 2017, its turnover meant a 15% contribution to GDP in the province of Coruña. That's why we always say that there is no real alternative to shipbuilding. There is nothing comparable in terms of employment, diversification and economic effects. The evidence is clear: since the Navantia -- Ferrol's laugh -- if the activity restrictions were imposed on it, the county of Ferrol has lost 30,000 inhabitants -- a third of its population -- and leads the unemployment rates among the seven Greek cities. There was no industrial plan, no Poligals or Games to compensate for that. That was the cost of the veto making civil ships, but the veto ended five years ago and the reindustrialization plans have been experimenting with them for forty years without success. So it's time for governments to start thinking seriously about recovering an activity with such enormous potential. That's why it also seems to us an anomaly that the Union does not seek a more active role in the empowerment of the naval sector and rather simply uses it as a political weapon against the Government of the State. We also know that the pandemic has seriously affected the global hiring of ships -- especially cruises, which are the segment that works in Europe --. But we also know that all countries in the world protect their shipbuilding -- countries, by the way, with much higher labour costs than ours --. Countries that have or aspire to have industrialized economies protect their shipbuilding. We also know that Navantia can't build the same kind of ship they used to do in Astano. It wouldn't be competitive. We have to go to another type of more technologically advanced ships with more value added. But the future is there, not incentives to companies. Given the possibilities offered by a centre like Navantia in the Ferrol River, it is ridiculous to ask for incentives for companies to come to settle in Ferrol. We already have that experience, and we know what it's like to take the money. They put these resources into a real technology center for the naval sector, they expand the UMI -- they give you stability and budget to investigate -- they invest in the company we already have, a public company owned by the state, all of them; they put Navantia to work; they change subsidies for investments, and the companies will come to work in the yard. Regardless of the conjunctural crises that may affect at any given time any sector or business, if there is a sector with a future is that of shipbuilding and that of maritime technologies, because, as Xosé Díaz said, "in a world with three quarters covered by the sea, saying that shipbuilding has no future is like being another planet." So, they get rid of the mental vetoes that can be left there, and the suicidal loyalties with agreements already exceeded, and they put Navantia to work. That's the best industrialization plan for Ferrol County. It's in his hand, because, as the illustration of Castile says, "Sardines would come back if the governments wanted to." Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. For the author group of the non-law proposition Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u145	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I have a different concept of the city of Ferrol than you have, Mr. Tellado. I'd rather remember Ferrol for his fight against dictatorship and his union concept and workers' struggle. That's the concept I have, which reminds me of Ferrol. It's true that one of the main issues is that of the solutions that have to give Navantia, I agree. That's why we, in our initiative, don't hide and put our duties on the government of the state in what it has to do with the workload that has to give it up to the start of the F-110 frigate construction project. Because it's true that there is now a problem until this starts, and it's true that Navantia has to be involved in a project to modernize the yard, which, in addition, includes the construction of that covered dam -- which we believe is essential --. But they shouldn't discard -- which is precisely on top of the table -- a project that is going to account for 4 billion euros, 10 years of workload and 7,000 jobs that will be generated in Ferrol. This is placed on the table by this government that is currently in the State. And it is good to talk about fiction policy, but more fiction policy and to do what is done and say that the BNG presents an initiative in the European Parliament when it has no Members. That's politics fiction, gentlemen of the BNG! [[Applause]] Look, in Ferrol, apart from the problems of Navantia -- that if they exist and obviously need to be solved -- there are other companies and industrial solutions to act on. By the way, Mr. Tellado, it's time for Vice President Count to meet with Siemens-Gamesa to try to stop an ERE... by the way, not to stop him from working but to bring him to work, Mr. Tellado. Let's see if we learn a little what the concepts are! It's not the labour authority, it's the labor jurisdiction that stops an ERE! [[Applause]] And that's what he did in the case of Alcoa, with very hard work on the part of state attorney... Don't get nervous. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In this case, too, one could get the hands of Galician textile workers. [[Interruption.]] Mr. Count is here now and I urge you to receive the workers of Galicia Textile, who are waiting to talk to you about a problem that may leave forty workers on the street. And it also belongs to the county of Ferrolterra, which is not only what happens in Navantia. The Galician Union has exclusive competence in the field of industry, given by that Statute of autonomy of what we so much like to talk about. Therefore, it would be desirable if the Galician Union were not always waiting to see if a socialist government appeared to put up an industrial plan. He says that socialist governments always have to appear to put an industrial plan in Ferrol. But you never do, absolutely never! You leave the industrial sector so that you will have no alternative or alternative or business attraction. Because if you think the attraction of companies is just promising investments by Pemex, investments in ships that soon cannot be done, investments in the outer port of Punta Langosteira that never appear later... that's Mr. Feijóo's industrial policy, which never talks about this issue anymore because of course he has nothing industrial to offer to the Greeks more than photos with profiles of entrepreneurs who soon end up with judicial problems. [[Applause]] With regard to the Bridges, I think it was an important part of my intervention. I'm asking the German Government to put something inside that table that they have formed precisely to try to maintain activity in the thermal power station of the Bridges, to put something of their authorship and do, precisely, to keep that biofuel project that they want to carry out; to agree with two people who are here, the Industry Advisor and the Rural Media Advisor. Because the rural councillor says the Galician board won't support any projects that burn biofuels. So you should both agree to whether this project that puts on the bridge table is supported or not supported by the Government of Galicia, to find out if that's what Mr. Conde says -- which almost fits the project -- or if that's what the Middle Rural Councilman says -- that says that in no case the Galician Union will be behind a project that burns biofuels --. That's the reality, Mr. Count, you were explained the other day by the Middle Rural Councilman. By the way, I repeat again that the closure of Endesa-Tos Pontes is derived above all from a rise of what to pay for CO2 emissions. And, by the way, it was Mr. Arias Cañete -- which you know well -- which made, within the government of the European Union, that decision. Therefore, I should also ask that gentleman, with whom they so much like taking pictures. [[Applause]] But then, of course... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u146	About the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u147	...they do not take the decisions they make in this government of the European Union, gentlemen like Mr. Arias Cañete. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u148	Thank you. About the amendment...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u149	Our proposal remains as it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u150	Thank you. After the debate on the non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u151	We begin by voting on the request by Ms Teresa Egerique of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and to parliamentary groups represented in the General Courts in connection with the abolition or amendment of article 18 of the draft law on climate change and energy transition, as well as to reach a consensus for this or any other change in the future in the Law on the coasts to take place following a study and dialogue with the complex sea-industrial industry. Voting of the motion for a non-legislation by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and to parliamentary groups represented in the General Courts in relation to the abolition or amendment of Article 18 of the draft law on climate change and energy transition, as well as to achieve a consensus for this or any other change that is made in the future in the Law on the coasts to take place after a study and dialogue with the complex sea-industry The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 60; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u152	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Noa Díaz Varela, on the presentation by the Government of Greece, before the end of the second session of 2020, of a cultural action and reactivation plan for the year 2021. I don't know if you've accepted the amendment. Did you accept the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group? Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is there a transaction? Do you know the groups? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then we can vote for her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela and D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the presentation by the Italian Government, before the end of the second session of 2020, of a plan of cultural action and reactivation for the year 2021 The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected as a transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u153	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Rosana Pérez Fernández, on the situation of fishing in Galicia following the agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom in relation to Brexit. Amendments to the Popular and Socialist Parliamentary Group are not accepted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah? Do you ask for a point vote? The People's Parliamentary Group calls for a point-by-point vote. Which one do you want to separate? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] From 1 to 4, and 5 and 6 together. What about the Socialist Group? They want to vote number three separately. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have to make three voting blocks. The first block is point 1, 2 and 4. The second block would be point number three, and the third block would be point 5 and 6. Do we agree? [[Assentment.]] So we started by voting on the first block, points 1, 2 and 4. We vote. Voting of points 1, 2 and 4 of the Non-Legal Proposal by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other Members, on the situation of Greek fishing following the agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom in relation to Brexit. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u154	We now vote point 3. Voting of point 3 of the Non-Legal Proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other Members on the situation of Greek fishing following the agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom in relation to Brexit. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 60; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u155	Finally, we vote on points 5 and 6. Voting of points 5 and 6 of the Non-Legal Proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and two other Members, on the situation of Greek fishing following the agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom in relation to Brexit. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u156	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado. Voting of the Non-Legal Proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in collaboration with the Government of the State aimed at ensuring that the Gamesa-Siemens company maintained its activity at the Somozas plant. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u157	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group which defended Mr Martín Seco. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández and two other Members, on the demand to the Galician Council to use the necessary mechanisms to develop a plan for the industrialization of Ferrolterra. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u158	The votes of the non-law proposals have been put to an end here. We continue with the agenda, with item 5 of the agenda, of interpelerations. Question by Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and three other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to local financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u159	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. The truth is that I thought I would answer the Presidency Counsellor, but in any case, of course, any member of the Government can come to answer any of the appeals that we have tabled. I wanted to tell the presiding officer that he had been responsible for the local administration for eleven years, although in this legislation the truth is that it is curious that he would advise that he had previously been called "Local Administration" and lost that designation. And I also think -- we think socialists -- that the Government is aware of the little importance it gives to the Greek municipalities. After eleven years, Mr. Rueda, and you too, should know the situation of the Greek Town Councils. And they're probably acquaintances of that reality. The grave thing is that, as acquaintances, they have done little to collaborate with local governments to meet the objective of financial adequacy that enables them to exercise their powers. In these eleven years that you have been ruling continuously -- and where Mr. Rueda is still vice-president and also responsible for local administration -- the Local Cooperation Fund has not increased a single euro since 2009. For seven years they did not convene the Galician Local Cooperation Commission or once, failing to comply with Article 188 of the Galician Local Administration Act, which establishes it as a permanent collaboration body for coordination between the autonomous administration and local authorities in Galicia. They have also been failing for eleven years to perform the functions designated and entrusted to this Galician Local Cooperation Commission, which establishes, among other functions, to ensure compliance with the principles of autonomy and financial adequacy, and to define objective parameters for the distribution of resources from local authorities. It's eleven years in which the Government of Greece has adopted rules that have increased the powers of the municipalities without bringing up the resources necessary to develop these competences, in which you, in this case, have referred to the Presidency Counsellor, but you are also advisor to this government -- in which the Council of Galicia -- I mean -- has forgotten that it has exclusive competence in industrial policy and intends to transfer the burden of setting up companies in Galicia, demanding them to give up an important part of their tax revenue. In eleven years his Government has remained unpaid for all maintenance costs of primary care centres and health centres -- which are in charge of the municipalities -- being an autonomous competition and failing to comply with the local Covenant, signed with the Fegamp in 2006. And the Government of Galician Union, during the health crisis of the Covid-19, again charges the municipalities with the responsibility of taking on an important part of the expenses necessary to prevent the spread of the virus without bringing the necessary economic resources to them, when the Government of Greece receives funds from the State. [[Applause]] Counsellor, the Greek Government speaks of the commitment of the councils, when the reality is that the Greek Government despises the Greek municipalities by deciding, from its privileged position, the competences, the approaches and those councils to which it intends to benefit. As you well know, Counsellor, the resources of the councils come primarily from their own tax resources, from the resources derived from participation in State taxes and from the resources arising from participation in autonomous Community taxes, which are current transfers of an unconditional nature to contribute to this achievement of the financial adequacy of local farms. Since 2009, the Greek Councils have received a fund called the Local Cooperation Fund, which has a budget of almost 113 million euros. It's a fund that, as I said at first, didn't increase a single euro in these eleven years of government of Nuñez Feijóo. You have introduced into the budgets since 2016 the so-called "additional background", with variable accounts that have nothing to do with the object of the Local Cooperation Fund, since the greatest achievement, precisely, of the Local Cooperation Fund was reached in 2000, and it was precisely that of becoming an unconditional fund that is shared among the Greek municipalities with distribution criteria agreed with the Fegamp. And that additional fund -- which I was commenting on earlier -- you set it up in budgets as specific aids for certain municipalities and conditioned to certain actions. And I'm going to give you several examples, Counselor. You establish as an additional and complementary fund nearly 11.5 million euros, since 2016, for the merged municipalities, that star measure announced by President Feijóo in the investment speech of the IX legislation. And I also announced it as a paradigm. That would put an end to the problems of Greek municipalism. The 11.5 million euros appear nominally in the budgets of the Galician Board for two municipalities, to which you would have to add the amount of agreements subscribed to these two municipalities for virtually all government councils -- in addition to having a higher score already out in all public invitations for self-government grants --. It's 11.5 million euros for the municipalities you decide. This additional fund also complements other aids, such as those directed to municipalities with penitentiary institutions, comarcaalization, mid-degree conservatories, secondary fringe networks, withdrawal of children from foot-and-mouth disease, coverage of mobile telephony in rural areas or participation in the commercial society responsible for the water cycle. I mean, any approach to competences that are almost entirely autonomous introduces it as an additional fund to divide between certain municipalities. And they want to call it the Local Cooperation Fund. We don't disagree with these aids. We believe that they are necessary and that, in addition, the Union must put sufficient economic resources to cover the costs, because in most cases they are the responsibility of the Council of Galicia and not of the Councils. What we don't accept is that they encompass them under the umbrellas of an unconditional background and tell us that, since you're in the Government, this fund has increased. And we just don't accept it because it's missing the truth. [[Applause]] Within the budgets of the Galician Union in each exercise they also assign annual amounts within the grant section to local entities. Some -- I'm not going to stop at all, of course -- they're for the maintenance of children's schools, the concerted plan or the abandoned pet protection plan, which are inappropriate competences of local authorities and which also assume a very important financial burden for the already rickets of municipal buildings. And they also establish other competitive competition grants that compete with those municipalities that demand it. And finally, Counsellor, there is an important number of games that are distributed in agreements where -- as you have pointed out to us by a high position of the Galician Union in a reply made by this honourable Member -- the criteria for distribution consist of the mayors and mayors going to the councillor or councillor -- or designated executive position -- ask for work or service and then the Government of Greece distributes -- and distributes according to necessity and urgency --. The Socialists would like to know what strategic plan of the various councils is set, as an objective criterion of apportioning the accounts for conventions, this need and urgency. And we would also like to know how it is established who has the need and urgency, because it seems -- it seems -- that the needs and emergencies of the councils governed by the People's Party are not the same as the needs and emergencies of the municipalities governed by other political formations. [[Applause]] In this case, I'm going to focus on the agreements signed by the First Vice President's Councillorship, signed by the Councillor and published in the DOG. I've got the copies here, in case there's any doubt. As often they're tempted to say we lie, I have everything here and I can leave it to the president if you need it here. So I'm going to give you a demonstration so it's pretty graphic. These are the agreements distributed by the First Vice-President and Chairlorship during 2017: 86% of the municipalities are from the People's Party. Conventions distributed in 2018: 82% of the People's Party -- I'm talking about counting, but I could also talk about number of municipalities --. First Vice-Presidentship Conventions in 2019: 95 % of the People's Party. And finally, the First Vice-Presidentship Conventions in 2020: here we have 82.25% of the People's Party. That is, we can conclude that, from 2017 to 2020 -- four years -- more than 6 million euros distributed in agreements by the First Vice-President of the Greek Government, 86.27 % -- that is, 5.5 million euros -- was for People's Party municipalities, more than 86%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u162	I'm done, Mr. President. You tell me, Counsellor: do you consider that the Council of Galicia makes a fair and fair distribution and that it contributes to the territorial balance of Galicia by distributing the public funds, the funds that are all of them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u164	It's a caciquil system that does not respect local autonomy, which is not based on a territorial rebalancing plan for Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u165	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u166	...who does not seek the coverage of basic services for the entire citizenry, who does not meet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u167	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Valeriano Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Excuse me, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, for hoping to see the vice president first. I'll try to answer some of the questions you raised today. Because the truth is, it's a shame to know how to read and write since I'm 3 years old. And, of course, one reads, "The formulation of the inadequate management of the autonomous administration, because it is unrecoverable quantities that at the end of the exercise are lost and that do not contribute to palliating the financial rickets that suffer most of the Greek municipalities" -- yes, they are questions formulated and signed, first for you -- or "What valuation does the Government do on the failure to execute the budgeted credits and destined for the local Greek corporations in the X legislation?" or "What were the reasons why the Government left without running credits year after year?"Do you consider the Government of Galicia to be sufficiently funded?", "Does the Greek Government with Fegamp anticipate an increase in the Local Cooperation Fund for the next year?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh shsh Let me -- at least for intellectual respect -- answer a little to what was being formulated in writing. Then I'll also make some other reference. Because, just as you didn't expect the Town Councillor and Public Administration to answer right now, I didn't expect much of that change that he gave -- although legitimate, because he can do it --. But since we asked about it, I'll tell you some of the questions. Let me get a little bit of the first two questions, the state of execution, on the one hand, and that's why they explain, if that's the case, the non-execution. When I look at the X legislation -- we work with full years, from 2016 to 2019, because 2020 is not closed right now, and when there are data we will also offer it, if so you ask us or any other parliamentarian, obviously -- I look at the two basic components that have the funds that local corporations have as recipients, which are none other than the Local Cooperation Fund -- where you have focused a lot on your first intervention -- and the rest of transfers that arrive to the municipalities -- especially, current transfers --. Starting from the initial credit, which was in 2016 of 313.3 million euros, we arrived in 2019, with 390.4 million euros. So there's an increase in the two components of 24.6%. I suppose from here what is clear is that this government has a very clear vocation to the needs and actions that develop in our municipalities. We are talking about an increase, therefore, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, which is close to 25%; if you prefer, we are talking about 1.4 billion euros over these years. As far as execution is concerned, we have two components: Local Cooperation Fund, whose execution -- as it cannot be otherwise -- approaching 100 percent of the initial credit of the underlying credit -- of which is phase d) and phase o), speaking with relative ownership and boredom, I'm not saying no, budget --. In the rest of transfers, chapters IV and VII, in 2016 we have a phased execution (d) approaching 97 % -- and so on in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 -- with respect to the underlying credit. That's how it needs to be measured. And it turns out that we're almost every year at 97 % -- at 96,5 % average, in particular --. So in principle, using a more or less academic simile, a score of 9.6 -- almost 9.7 -- over 10 doesn't seem to be a bad result. But we need where we can't run the credits. In fact, you said very well that the credits in this rest of transfers have a double component; on the one hand, what are the summons where different local corporations are presented based on pre-established bases, and then there are the famous conventions. So when we see it, we see that the credit that has not been used -- phase d) -- it turns out that it concentrates on three or four of the entities, counsellors, that in the Joint we have on the global consolidation perimeter -- specifically, in the Employment Council, especially in the First Vice-Presidency, to which you have just referred, and specifically, as an example, at the Galego Energy Institute --. When we analyze these components, what we realize is the following -- and so we get inside the reasons you asked for at your point in writing -- the reasons are nothing other than, when we are, for example, in a summons or an agreement, I suppose no one will be hidden from you that there has to be a justification at the end of it all. And the justification is that it's really hard for every and every one of the multiple things we do at the board to get to 100 percent. Therefore, a result of 97.5 % already seems to me to be very sufficient in terms of phase d) -- in terms of obligation, in that case --. As far as summons are concerned, I have to recognise, indeed, that it revolves around a question. The first one is that of the annuality. The annuality doesn't exhaust it, because we're talking about funds -- most of them -- that are finalistic or that are European funds and that can be used in subsequent years. So, with nuances, we have temporality. As far as summons are concerned, I do have to admit that we're improving, but we don't do everything right. The timing has to search for it in almost all call commands in the first quarter -- or in the first quarter at most --. But you will understand that there are certain funds that are incorporated, which causes that not always in the first quarter or quadrimaster if you can make the different calls. It's recommended, but it's not an absolute good in itself. The evidence is that many times, through a sectoral conference, some funds can be reached, and what they cause is that certain calls take place at the end of the year. But as you know -- or we must all know, since we're talking about public funds -- in all evolution, first of all, there may or may not be resignations from the municipalities themselves, there may or may not be denials for not meeting certain requirements, there may be certain minorities or certain modifications. And in the end, as I said before, there's the subject of justification. Therefore, the Greek municipalities throughout the X legislation had an increase of approximately 25% in the resources born from Galician Union. Secondly, the use of resources is about 97 %. And in the phases that I haven't just mentioned -- which is phase o, the payment, in that case -- you know me as if, apart from the justification, being funded with finalist funds or European funds, they don't get lost. That's why there's no more to look at than 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 and check how there's a correlation to at least one regarding the previous year. So it has to do with that non-lost financing structure that could not be executed. Having said this, I think the result is more than worthy, and right now I don't want to make any sort of comparison with anyone else. If I'd like to point out also before the end of this paragraph, in the first two -- the other one, I'll also refer to the Greek municipalities sufficiently funded, because what must not be left here in this present House is that the Board, like any autonomous community, has a very important participation, and it must continue to have it, on the subject of financial adequacy, especially from the councils -- which does not exhaust all local corporations --. But you, like me, who knows the constitutional forecast that there is about the participation of local corporations in the state's own incomes -- what you know as PIE, with the double shade of "more" so many inhabitants, "less" so many inhabitants -- what you will recognize with me is that in this first derivative there is still that participation in the state's incomes, to which you haven't made any reference; and the other is the participation that the Autonomous Community can have -- community that already advances that, through the Local Cooperation Fund, is being the second community of common regimes that most participates in the municipalities -- of communities that have no island character, which have their specificity --. I will therefore not be criticized when it is measured in relation to our importance. So I think the shots are relatively biased on their part, because in the insufficiency that the Greek municipalities manifest -- that the Union is doing ours -- we are in total coordination and support with respect to the Fegamp, which, as you should know, has also prepared a study -- and which was also addressed to the National Local Administration Commission -- in what I pretended that the Greek municipalities -- are another thing -- are receiving less than in principle corresponding to applying criteria such as surface, dispersion -- measured by individual population entities -- etc. Because what comes from local funding at national level is that there is a very marked bias towards large agglomerations in relation to the most captive agglomerations, which are the ones we have in our autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u170	And by the way, this autonomous community was the only one that, when we talked about self-financing -- and we've spent almost three years without talking about it in spite of being a priority, in principle, of the current central government -- put on the table that autonomous funding should also be seen in relation to local funding, both things. Why? Because we act on both physical and legal people in a territory, and we all deserve the same consideration. And the results found tell us that in Galicia we lost autonomically and, above all, via local corporations. So let's put the accent on every thing on his side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u171	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, you can't tell me I don't care... Man! if you want to tell me that I didn't ask you exactly the questions that are in my inquiry, you don't. But I'm talking about exactly the budget appropriations for local corporations, I'm telling you about funding, own resources, the IEP, the PICA, the Local Cooperation Fund, subsidies, the municipalities... so, of course, I'm setting up strictly what I have here in question. That doesn't take away that I can also use other arguments to defend my posture. You were also talking about a paragraph that I actually put here. I was talking about budget credits for local corporations, which is point number one, and which in my first intervention just didn't give me time to play. But I also have it, and so I'm going to tell you right now. From Title V that appears in the autonomous Community budgets every year -- where it puts "local corporations" -- we have the last three exercises. And despite that fulfilment of what you're talking about, I've also done a square with all the matches. See? [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows a document from the stage.]] Look, I can leave you here too, Mr. President, in case you have any doubts, or if you think we're doing a joke there. You have yours and I have mine. If I had given her to me, I might as well have made it easier for me. But I know that the Government is not too concerned about facilitating the work of the opposition's Members and Members. And in the last three exercises, unless there is a mistake, I have to have you in 2017 left out 40 million euros for local corporations; in 2018, 54 million euros; and in 2019, almost 40. I mean, there's nearly 140 million euros not running in three years, and that's what we mean. Because you, like the German Government, are really concerned about the financing of the Greek councils and why all the competences are properly executed -- the own and all those inappropriates that you once and again, through different laws and regulations, are embroiled by local corporations -- maybe those money could include them to increase the Local Cooperation Fund; and not as you intend, that they want to take care of the municipalities and they want to decide what they have to spend on the Town Councils. Besides giving them responsibilities, they want to tell them if they can spend on it and not on it. And the municipalities in general -- and the Greek municipalities, in particular -- are older, are democratically elected governments by their neighbours and neighbors, just as you are, the Government of the Council of Galicia. So they have the right -- and you're not the one to take it away from them -- to be able to exercise their powers in the way they think it best. [[Applause]] And if they don't do it well, they'll see in four years and they'll decide their citizenship if it's right or wrong, but not the Galician Union. They don't have to determine what they have to spend on the Greek Town Councils. I also wanted to comment on another topic -- which concerns us a lot and that you, in your second intervention, probably can explain it --. It turns out that this year we just approved -- they just approved; we, of course, did not -- an budget for 2021, an expansive budget and that it also increases 1,575 million euros. And it turns out that the municipalities are the big wounded. I mean, transfers to local corporations decrease to 2021 in 11.5 million euros, being of the few splits... you say that, but I also have my little paper -- I think I stayed there -- and it's an exact copy of the budgets. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I think it's 11.5 million less for the Greek municipalities during this exercise. [[Applause]] And, therefore, it's a little curious that, with that growth of 1,575 million euros, lower budgets for the municipalities, lower budgets for the fixing of population in rural areas and lower budgets for youth. The truth is, it's quite curious, Counselor. Even if it's only for aesthetics, they should keep it, because they increase 1,575 million euros, not 100, 1.575 million euros! And you also vote against an amendment tabled by this parliamentary group in which we are asking for an increase for the Greek municipalities -- to develop all those skills that you envelop them, to be able to meet all those obligations that they have to avoid the spread of the pandemic -- of 100 million euros. You voted against, voted against the fact that the Greek councils had more resources to develop their responsibilities. And I'm going to remind you -- already to finish, I'm sure you will warn me already, Mr. President -- that in the electoral programme of the People's Party, of which you are part, of the 2020 autonomous elections, in the section on local administration says, among other things -- and I literally read -- that they commit themselves "to reviewing the funding of the councils through the Local Cooperation Fund towards a model that overlaps aging, depopulation and fiscal effort, and that is set by territorial cohesion." I have nothing else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close this inquiry by the Town Hall and Public Service Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u174	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, there must be something wrong. I'm not saying it's yours, watch out for the words, eh! I'm not saying it's yours. Initial credit, transfers to local entities -- year 2020 --...What are glasses, my God!, what is age! --. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u175	It's better to always walk with them
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u176	Like I'm 60 next week, they're getting noticed. [[Laughter]] Initial credit to local entities in 2020, 401.4 million; year 2021, 407.9. As far as I can tell, that's a positive one, which is 1.6%. So there's some disagreement. Let's agree because I think you're wrong about something. And I think it's not me, because I've already reviewed it several times, and we've also talked about these amounts in budgets. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, allow me not to scoff at what are the executional indexes of the Galician Union, but when I talk about local corporations -- that, yes, indeed, less bad than they choose freely, and everyone every four years decides what color is on each side, it would lack more, it would lack more! --, the report of the Board of Auditors -- year 2018 -- says the average execution of the non-financial budget of the Greek municipalities was 67,6 %. And in the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants -- curiously those with less resources, less personnel -- the execution was 77.29%. Both of the comparison parameters are telling us that the very big ones aren't doing so well. And if you compare what we're doing on the board -- that I'm talking to you over ninety-six with something percent -- you'll understand that I have to feel relatively proud of how we do things -- knowing that something has to improve --. I'm not telling you any more of the provincial deputies, which have 47.9 % execution. And it seems to me that in three of them you command. I mean, you guys with management never went too far. Well, about the increase in the Local Cooperation Fund, what you asked me to do at the point you said, there is no disagreement. In contrast, I am very glad that I also read literally what is contained in the People's Party proposal for the last July election. Local funding needs to be reviewed, but that must be a corollary. The first thing we have to do between us all -- yes, ma'am -- is never again, to be -- or minimize it -- is to talk about competences that are of the Union, competences that are of the councils, of the deputies, or, if so, of shared competences. What we have to do is agree that we are actually putting up with both administrations on competences, clarifying competences and assigning them. I'm sure, if we do, we'll make a great deal of progress on the funding issue. Because you're going to understand -- just reasoning, getting something metric, too, but reasoning -- that, if we do so, the unconditional character doesn't make any sense. Because if one's and others' competences are well-defined, then... that's it. Another thing is the concept of adequacy, which, since the Central Government is not coming, since June at the moment, we will have to keep approaching. Therefore, the municipalities know, and they've always counted on us. By the way, I've been counsellor for six years -- which I did yesterday -- and of my relationship, in the Local Cooperation Committee, with Fegamp, I can only talk about the topics being discussed, and not a little bit. There has been a certain change of guard lately, despite being of the same color as the previous president. But what's ahead of you is that all the changes have been made in common agreement. And please do not confuse what are the criteria for distribution with the unconditional or unconditional nature of the funds. I think it's good to agree with what it was at the time... and I think it was relatively lacking in the truth -- I don't mean "lie" -- when you were talking about the health expenses of the Greek municipalities. That's already been corrected in 2018. There is no council at this time that there is no compensation for health expenses, there is no council! So I won't allow you to say at parliamentary headquarters something that's not true. There is a module since 2018 that has been confronted, by everyone who sent us, about certified invoices in each county about this type of expense. Therefore, I do not allow this to be said at parliamentary headquarters because it is totally false, totally false! So what we know about the Greek municipalities and the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces is that they will count on the Board, firstly, when we discuss a holy time local funding at the national level -- there they will count on our "yes", because, indeed, the current model prejudices our municipalities -- ; secondly, they will count on the Board to do that sort of audit -- which we have already commented on when we talked about budgets for 2021 with the representatives of Fegamp -- to analyze our own and shared competences to put names, names and funding in each case. That is how we will do it, and we will come to certain conclusions that will be conditioned or unconditioned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u178	But obviously, since this joint, as I have demonstrated numerically, there are more and more transfers to the Greek municipalities. And we'll always support Fegamp's requests, because they're fair. And that's what we're dedicated to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u179	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the recommendations for more restrictive measures of mobility and assembly on the dates of Christmas parties and the criteria that underpinned the final decisions taken by the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u180	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u181	Thank you, President. We'll congratulate the councillor before tomorrow, who'll be celebrating us next week, according to what he said. Next week he said he was to greet us. We congratulate him now because we won't be around. So let's keep track. And, Mr. President, let me tell you that you haven't been very successful this morning, with a very deep disrespect for a local administration. And I should apologize for that. It's amazing that I haven't set full examples that are magnificently exemplary and worthy, as some recent -- maybe you don't know them -- of the House of Ourense and the Council of Ourense. Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u182	You mustn't be confused. I'm sorry, you misunderstood.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u183	Yes, yes, it could be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u184	You misunderstood. I have all my respect for the local administration. It couldn't be any other way. All I've said is that I've been comparing a plenary that I've seen from a certain council with what happens in this Parliament, nothing more. That's not that I lack respect for the local administration, not much less. I want to make this absolutely clear. Or other things that can happen somewhere else, sure. [[Murmurs.]] But that's not what I meant. And, therefore, the local administration has all my respect, which is clear to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u185	He didn't say it or he didn't. But, in any case, don't worry. There are some people also to talk about gifts in the other plenary. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway...! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Counsellor, today we speak with an interest in raising three subjects, three fundamental subjects in this interpellation. First, that the decisions taken are political, so should it be, political. Secondly, the situation we have derived from the decisions we make about the pandemic is serious, it's very serious, we all know it. And thirdly, that we must be skilled as a whole -- and the government especially, because it's who has the ability right now to direct the situation -- to avoid making mistakes that we make with the attempts -- although it's understandable to have that desire -- to give good news. But we must be cautious and cautious. On those three axes, I'm going to ask you about our interpellation, based on how the measures were taken at Christmas. First, we move that decisions are political. I am, they must be. Technicians are not only important, they are probably essential for making decisions -- especially in the situation in which we live -- but decisions are political, the government takes them. Because many times there are people who want to look out for themselves in this situation saying that decisions are made by technicians, or by committees. It's not right and it's not right. Committees have clinical positions -- sometimes contradictory or sometimes only with different shades -- but it's the rulers who are responsible for making difficult decisions. We, as we have often moved them, are understanding with a very harsh, very difficult situation, which probably proves to be making decisions that no one wants to make, and in all areas. Yesterday it was mentioned here, as a justification for the stage, that there was a need to understand the disappointment and uncertainty that caused the situation. And we agreed to that. The People's Party defended him and we agree with that, we understand that. We would have liked the People's Party to understand it in the first wave, when it used the pandemic for a frontal political attack with the Government of the State. But finally, we're probably going to be wrong in some of them, and in others we'll be right, but luckily, we're not the PP. And also luckily for this current joint government, we're not the PP. [[Applause]] However, we said that decisions are political, and so they are. We moved this to you because there are various explanations depending on whether what you can say is good or bad. And it's humanly understandable, but governments must be above that. To set a clearer example: the decisions that could be made and not taken for Christmas -- that is, the decisions that we live today in Galicia and that could be made on December 20 -- caused, because of not taking, a bad situation. "The Government of the State has forced me." You're lying! -- cowardly lie, on the other hand --. Yesterday -- by cheering statements -- the German Government announced more or less the strategic lines of the measures to be taken next week. Why? Because no one beats some rulers except Correcan -- and I don't know -- quickly to say good things. It's human. To say good things, we have to hurry. If the Government required those measures -- which is a lie -- that are now to be unscalable, take them together. You have to avoid poking solitary traps. [[Applause]] The measures take them the Government of the Union -- which has to do, because the measures on Galicia take them the Government of the United States --. And from there on, we have to build measures, with which we -- I insist -- we are respectful. We understand the difficulty of taking them. He said today Gonzalo Caballero that we are loyal to the measures, we cannot be complicit with the mistakes, but we are loyal to the measures. And we even assume that the measures can be wrong, and we assume we're wrong about them, too. There's no problem with understanding it, because no one has a vein of infallibility, that's obvious. But they are political measures. And when you announce a week before the line of measures, it's done without data, and it's because there's a political will to force as much as possible, within the frame you define us, to be able to take the part of the frame that is more aperturist. All right, it's not questionable from the point of view that it's legitimate to do so. As at Christmas, when this government sought all arguments to take the most aperturistic measures. Because there were positions within the clinical committee that defended being tremendously cautious or even very restrictive measures -- probably in its entirety --. So there were those decisions, they existed. And the clinical committee also proposed these measures -- not everyone, of course --. So we can't watch out, because nobody forced anything; because it's absurd -- besides cowardly, it's absurd --. And we have to assume that those measures were taken by will. The second question is that, as a result of this, we have a complicated situation. We insist again: it is human to want to move things into positive always. But there are some things they've said they're lies. And, in addition, from our point of view, little has contributed to improving the situation. For example, saying that the occupation of ICUs is at 30% -- as was said last week --, it's not true. There's probably an ICU that doesn't allow one more pint. There are professionals doing jobs not even of their own specificities but collaborating. The system is delivered to the goodness of the professionals. Just like a system with better previous structure, more personal, more resources, it would be better -- we've said so many times -- but we're committed to the goodness and will of the workers. And that's always a joy. But a first-class health system, as we aspire to have and we want to have, must not be based solely on the kindness of the workers. ICUs are wrong, much worse than 30%, 32% or 40% that Mr. Feijóo said. Of course he wants to convey the good things! Just like him he doesn't mind lying, but he's bad, and he's got a problem. [[Applause]] And he's got a problem because he's moving the citizenship into the situation that we're not so bad. And wanting to convey that is very good on the personal plane, but it doesn't contribute little to people's awareness of the evil that we are. Because we're very bad. You know that in the first person, you visit hospital centers, and you tell us that you're worried about the situation. So we can't pass on that idea. Moved to a very specific question, if today, which is about one and a half noon, if today, on Wednesday, we're now sectioning the health system in Galicia and we see the UCI beds available -- real beds, which are there with professionals to be able to attend, not those that could be in the future "if we do...", not in a hospital that we can open, but today, right now, at about one and a half noon on this Wednesday -- how many beds are available in UCI in Galicia? Few, very few! And this is a problem. Pretending to hide it, as it was intended from the Government, is a mistake. Why? Because we're transmitting that there's a better situation than there is and it's important to convey the difficulty, that people understand the suffering that's going on in the ICUs, their families and those that unfortunately are not in the ICUs anymore because they've already failed. It's very important to move it without falling into a deep negativity, but it's reality and it has to be transmitted. Thirdly, we didn't make the mistake again that, wanting to convey good news, we often conveyed the idea that it was all over. It's been a while. I remember perfectly how it was assumed, how public acts were done, to say that we were the first community to get out of the first wave restriction measures. Some warned, with little success, with little success, that they should not be so presumptuous. Some assumed to be the first community. That was great at the time. And from that to the following: to pretend to say that we were very good in November -- that we were better than now and that in December we could therefore get out of the situation and give the measures that were allowed -- to the present. Let's not make the mistake again, because, by announcing it or by winning an image or a headline, we mustn't do that! For the medals -- if that's why someone's worried -- don't worry, that, when this gets over -- that we're gonna get past it --, it's going to put them on the board government. There won't be any competition for that, because, you put on medals, there's no one who can compete with the United Nations. It's the best thing to do these kinds of campaigns. But that's not the argument, the question is that we can't make that mistake again. So at those three points we feel we need to be clearer, more direct in the clarity of the message, even simpler -- understand, easier to understand --. The normative sudoku, that of the Carballino model and the county on the side, didn't work. Let's be simpler. We didn't transmit an image that isn't, because it's a mistake, and let's be clearer. Let's tell people that the situation is very tough, because it is. And that's also what we ask the Government, to be clear with the situations, that no one is going to tell you -- as if it was used in reverse -- and no one is going to be reminding you of what data is for everything, even to tell you that this could be a disaster -- that it's not --. Well chosen, some data would leave the management of this government very badly, but they would be used partly because we wouldn't be telling everything. Some in particular are demolition, but it's not about that either. So we asked him how the measures are taken and what the situation is -- if you can explain that question about exactly how ICUs are --. And from there, we urge you to be able to work in a better sense to be realistic and not optimistic. It's not the time to campaign anybody's personal image, it's the time to be realistic. Because that will also contribute to us all being more fulfilling, even if someone learns to put on the mask when it touches him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u186	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u187	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, in the past full, I began my intervention by recalling that we lived bad days, with data that no one would want. And today I have to do the same. We can't forget who lost a family member in unimaginable conditions, nor the people who are currently suffering from illness. And although the data from the contagions have already begun to go down and it seems that the horizon is beginning to clear, where you still can't perceive this is in our centers, as you well said -- from primary care centers to hospitals --, and especially in critical areas, that make an undeniable effort; but also in the cod plants, in the emergencies, or in conventional hospitalization plants, that have to adjust their programming to adapt to the number of patients entered by coronaviruses that we have. In Galicia we know about the efforts of health professionals, and we also know the pain of so many families. And be sure that, if we had any other option or measure to have saved these families their loss, or our professionals their ingenious work, we would have taken it. Galicia has been, and still is, one of the most restrictive communities, with restrictions that have been taken for months with unique criteria that allowed us to object to what measures these should be. They also know that our community has a clinical committee of professionals with names and names, and above all curriculum, which is what guides government measures. Obviously, decisions are made by the Government, as it could not be otherwise, but advised, yes, by technicians. I want to take advantage of this moment and today to make a more important defense, if possible, of the clinical committee and its honorability, after hearing this infamous weekend -- which can only be called that -- by something that we no longer know very well what it is, and which, of course, some Member of this Parliament has contributed to spreading. Therefore, based on that clinical committee, the decisions were made. The decisions have been made and, of course, it's no pleasure for us to have to make restrictions -- neither in the residences nor for the family, nor, of course, the closure of the hostel -- when it's already many months in which the measures are part of our day-to-day. But when we get the complaints about the limitations established in Galicia, you ask why we haven't been more restrictive. The truth is, it's hard to understand this, and especially in the matter of Christmas and coming from you. In Galicia we were, after the end of the state of alarm, at a time when Galicia actually believes that it could be the first autonomous community to meet the requirements that the ministry had put in order to reach that new normality -- for example, by making the request for PCR tests under twenty-four hours -- the first community we achieved. Yeah, when we started in that movement, the clinical committee and the board didn't stop doing their job. And you'll remember that in summer we had Burela's case. By the way, many of these restrictions were criticised at that time by mayors of their party, who said that the restrictions imposed made it impossible for the elections to be held at that time. Those restrictions have always had a single purpose: saving lives. In Galicia, in view of the differences in the evolution of the pandemic, we decided at that time to take surgical measures by municipalities, activating them until the cases decreased. We applied the maximum restriction measures in Carballino on 9 October. I'm not saying we're happy with the Carballino model, it's not the right word. But if we try in a small environment how restrictive measures worked, and those measures, without any doubt on our part -- I don't know what doubts you mean -- we apply them in other municipalities after that. In fact, on November 4, we applied that Carballino model to 60 municipalities. On that date -- on November 4th -- we also defined the four levels of restrictions that would determine the situation and the limitations of each municipality according to the epidemiological situation. As you will understand, although we know that it can lead to confusion, it would not be fair for the inhabitants of one municipality to apply to them the other municipality. And that's why we also started a website at that time, where the inhabitants of a municipality could see their situation and understand better, if possible, those measures. The clinical committee has established a number of objective indicators that have been used since then, such as the incidence rates accumulated at seven and fourteen days, such as the rates of cumulative incidence for more than 65, such as -- most importantly -- the percentage of occupation of ICUs, or the number of cases and characteristics of outbreaks, and of course also the percentage of positive PCRs -- and always distinguishing between municipalities of more than 10,000 inhabitants and less than 10,000 inhabitants --. I mean, we didn't take action randomly. We take concrete parameters and always within the recommended by the clinical committee of experts. That was the strategy that Galicia kept on Christmas, exactly that. In the Interim Council, the autonomous communities, in early December, decided among all the perimeter closures of all the autonomous communities. I remember that Galicia was only closed in early December, associated with the situation in neighbouring Portugal. After this first time, Galicia joined a perimeter closure with all autonomous communities. The perimeter closure basically sought to reduce or avoid tourism at Christmas, because movement was not allowed except for the movement of the nearers -- except, by the way, in the Balearic Islands and in the Canary Islands --. As you know, we question the concept of "approaching." In fact -- and you know it personally, because we commented on it -- in that interterritorial council we pointed out the possibility of limiting it to two families. At first they told us that they did, but then in writing it came in a way that the ten were mandated. Besides, the ministry took care of reminding us that we could never put a limitation under ten. And so we did. And then the motion restrictions -- which were for fifteen days -- in Galicia we apply them over seven days instead of fifteen days. In addition, we expressly request that these meetings be limited to family members and -- as I said -- the ministry did not incorporate this limitation. So I mean we adapt to what was established at the national level, and we insisted -- and you can get back the press rounds from the corresponding clinical committees -- in which, although the maximum number was ten, we ideally recommended meetings with family groups only. We could talk about the decalogue we also made at that time. And I also want to insist that we kept the perimeter closure in a total of 50 Town Councils at Christmas. Many of them also spent Christmas with limitations in the hostel, closing up to 5 p.m. or 6 p.m., among which were municipalities such as Ferrol, Vigo, Pontevedra, Cangas or Vilagarcia, with a 30 per cent saving limit inside and 50 per cent on the terraces, in groups of only four people. Even many of them closed the hostel inside, such as Sanxenxo, Ribeira or Boiro. I remind you that he was still -- and he's still alive -- the passenger register, where in Galicia more than 33,000 people were targeted at Christmas. This guarantees, between December 21st and January 6th, a specific PCR for those people who came from outside the autonomous community, and we even added students even though they were from the community. So I think it jumps to the fact that in Galicia we took the measures that were considered to be adjusted -- according to the procedure we would adopt, of course -- with the epidemiological situation at that time. And we always take action according to these parameters of which we speak, regardless of the political colors of each one, of each municipality. That is, at every moment the committee has valued the situation of each council and, according to that, decisions have been made -- and I have to say that there are always limits, with respect to the incidence required to take action, less than elsewhere --. In mid-January, given the incidence of the disease, we had to leave the measures by municipalities and establish general measures, which are the ones we have right now. Although any rise in the number of infected or a new deceased is, of course, very negative in assessing the measures if we can establish comparisons, because it is the only way to clarify whether the measures taken were appropriate or not. Now we see how Galicia is still one of the communities with the lowest percentage of hospitalizations and ICUs. Here I must tell you, Mr. Torrado, that the occupation criterion of ICUs is not ours, it is the Government. It's the Government that says how we have to count the availability of UCI beds. And we and all the autonomous communities believe we do the same. To that extent, the data we have are that. If you ask me about the structural occupation of ICUs, I can give you data without problem, but we're all counting exactly the same way. The measures we took allowed that percentage to be lower. It was much smaller, in addition, than, for example, in the Valencian community, which was the most restrictive community in that possibility given to the Government and which was collected in the document of the Interterritorial Council -- to apply perimeter closures and not allow the travel of the nearers --. He didn't allow a single Christmas day to move near. We allowed seven of fifteen. Well, I think Valencia's situation in this case -- and I'm not happy, God let me go! -- it's no better than ours though he took that restrictive action. And I repeat that we were, after them, the ones that we took most restrictions. The new restrictions imposed on our community since mid-January have been known. And, as I said, we don't want to be triumphalists, but I do think it's necessary for citizens to know -- and there I thank you for your words too -- that all the effort they made was not in vain. Knowing that finally the contagions begin to descend undoubtedly constitutes good news for everyone. Above all, so that this is a sign that we'll soon see that the hospitalized -- especially those from the ICU -- and especially those who have died decrease, as well as -- let me say -- to see closer -- even though it's far away -- that this virus ceases to be a concern for everyone. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u188	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Torrado's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u189	Thank you, President. Counsellor, tell you that the measures taken have been adjusted. I don't think it's probably the best grade. They probably weren't very adjusted. As I moved him, we went, we are and we will be loyal to the measures. And if it was a mistake, we felt part -- because being loyal we're part -- too. But we don't think they've been adjusted. They weren't. The explanation already has a little more interesting reading. Let me get a little more into the debate. Of the things that have been wrong they'll say it was because "the government forced us" -- the government of the state, and I say it because today it was even discussed this concept --. "Things were bad because the government of the state forced us, but we're not so bad because the measures we took were different because we're very good" -- talking about the same measures, eh! --. "How bad are the measures, because the Government of the State has forced us!"that's good for us to compare, because the measures we take are very good!" Of course, this is a problem of forging complicated responsibilities. Let's start backwards, let's not start saying if they were good or bad to then conclude who took them. We thought there were things that were done right and things that were done wrong. Who took them? Who took them to catch up with what's happening to him, for good and for bad -- for good too, and for bad things --. I'm saying this because, if not, we're in an absurd dichotomy that the citizenry is... -- at last, he's worried a little bit because he qualifies everyone anyway, we're all going to that bag and nothing happens --. But there's a concern. And we have a concern, which is that, while we're passing on to the citizenship that this is to see who hangs the medal -- that's to say, we're going well because the board is very good! Or how bad we're going because the government of the state is very bad! -- while we're in this permanent madness, the citizenship that doesn't know at the end is the one that lands. You don't have that reference, because you don't have that reference when we tell you that ICUs are at 30%. "No, it's the state that compels me to count..." Yes, I want that data from the ICU, because it's always that thing about "if you want to give it the data" but it never gives it to us. So, yes, we want the complete ICU data, today, right now. You don't have to be accurate if you have an approximation -- you're sure, you know what the actual percentage of ICU occupation is --. Right now, right now, let's stop and ask ICU how many beds there are now available. Not the ones that can be, or the one that "we hire more..." Don't! Right now! Not many. And this has to be told. And it's not about counting it to, if there's a few beds, then say, "How bad the government is!" Don't worry that in that debate there will be few beds because of the Bipartite. Don't worry that's not the story. The story is to tell people that they have to keep doing it, and that they have to keep doing it because we're really bad at hospitals. This is the problem, we're sick in hospitals. And we don't have the data because we have the number of beds occupied, but we don't have the number of total beds. Or does anyone fully know which total beds exist now in the system? I can tell if I ask a professional, someone who works in a hospital, but this is not the way to get the information in this country; it shouldn't be -- unfortunately, it is, but it shouldn't be --. What's the volume of beds we have in the ICU? Because people must know that we're on board, and nobody wants it, and we're convinced that it won't happen, that there may be people who need an ICU bed and don't have access to an ICU bed. This isn't happening to us right now, but we can be very close to what's going on. And that's why we have to pass on to people who have a problem and people have to comply with the measures, because there are people going through very bad times, because there are professionals going through very bad times, leaving everything they have and more so there's no one who behaves irresponsiblely. That's what we have to transmit, because there's a lot of effort, of course, too from the Council, a lot of effort in which the situation is going to be better, but we can't be transmitting what it isn't, as we can't be encouraging the people who are going to open up the next week, announcing measures from the Clinical Committee. And the Clinical Committee will say: let's see if we value it. Because see if it's going to be that they want to use them, and I don't think, I don't want to believe it. It won't be that they're used for bad things and then, a week before we get him together, let's say what the next week's measurements are going to be. So the measurements were not adjusted. There were a lot of warnings that others had to take. It's not that we've all shut down in the house and closed the windows and the blinds since 1 October. Of course, we can spend four months locked up at home, but I think the consequences would be worse in terms of health too. But if it has to do with moving what exists to the citizenship, moving it to the citizenry who makes the decisions, understanding that decisions are sometimes human and therefore imperfect -- there is no one with that gift of never being wrong -- and being able to recognize situations, because, if not, we are in an absurd debate that leads nowhere. And we are what we move, and we intend through the motion, is to have the ability to specify who makes the decisions, like, based on what criteria and what is the real situation so nobody can say -- as it was said today -- like the other day, two weeks ago, that we could vaccinate 9,000 people in one day. The other day it was 35,000 and today it was 100,000. Soon it will happen that he's going out on the TVG and he's going to say, "You don't know, but you're all vaccinated, thanks to me. So, to avoid that kind of thing, we're going to be able to do things normally, which I think is better, and we're going to move a more natural message to the citizenry so that, in the end, if we comply with the measures, so that, at the end of all, we can do things as soon as possible, that I'm sure -- and I'm aware, I recognize it -- which is also... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u190	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u191	...the Council's commitment, which is working on it with quite a few correct things, too, but with some mistake, which is important to point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u192	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the inquiry, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u193	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, I will continue to insist because, moreover, I am fully convinced that the measures taken since the month of June have been appropriate to the situation that existed at every moment. Another thing is the results, because I found out in the first wave -- I didn't know him -- the after captain, the one who comes in and says, "That's what I said." Obviously, all measurements have their mating, and the results are consistent with what everyone expects. But I have to say that in the Galician Union, in the German Government and Galicia -- in general, in Galicia, and there I have to say that your answer, when we talked about the measures, was always in the tone that you just said right now -- the measurements have always been adjusted to the situation. And it's very important to have objective criteria -- that Galicia has them -- when it opens, when it closes, when it gets to 30%, when it gets to 70%... all those parameters are set. Obviously, they're evolving, because we didn't have the same document in June as what we had in October. But in October, precisely, from the experience of Carballino, it was quite well-modulated, and exactly that document was what we used at Christmas. I have to remember that before Christmas -- because it seems like we arrived at Christmas so suddenly -- we put quite important measures in many municipalities, and in the seven big cities -- in the already famous almonds --, delimitations. Those measures resulted, and in the first of December, even when we passed the December bridge, we could open; not because we had to open for Christmas, but because the epidemiological data, again, pointed out well. During Christmas there were cities that continued to lower their parameters. And it was very difficult to tell the mayors of those cities and the general population -- if their city was under 100, when our baseline opening indicator was 100-- : no, now you don't open. Because the captain will come and say later, after, that you have failed to open. No, no, no, no. When they were under 100, they opened, and when they passed from 250, they closed. That's what was done at Christmas, and what we would probably do today if Christmas hadn't taken us to the situation we all knew, which forced us to put aside for a moment that geographical criterion so surgical and go to something more systemic. Because we were aware, on January 22, that there was a Community transmission, and we had to take cross-cutting measures; measures we took at the moment and, as I say, they are producing results. I repeat you solve it back is easy. It's easy for me and also for you, surely, and for all the Greeks. But it is true that at that time the epidemiological situation, which must be a fundamental criterion -- not the only one, but very important -- was what encouraged the Clinical Committee to give us that recommendation, and the Board to adopt it. I was saying -- and I don't blame the government -- that there was a Christmas context that said we could meet from 10 to 10. We said, humbly, that it seemed to us that 10 was a lot, and also this is a little of the captain's after. We said it, but we didn't say it now; we said it then and it was reflected in the document, though not, as you know, as we would. And about fifteen days of mobility that we could do... and with this I'm responding strictly; not saying: as it went well or went wrong, it's not our fault. If you ask me, could we have done more? Yes, Mr. Torrado. Could we have done less? Yes. We could have done the 15 days open, as we had adopted in the state as a whole, we could have done in Valencia, but we stayed at an intermediate point, because the incidence accumulated in Valencia and Galicia at that time had nothing to do with it. Justification and also measures sometimes have to be proportional. The population does not understand that the incidence of 200 or 100 applies to it the measures that apply to other sites in 500. That proportionality must also be explained to the population, and we must understand it. Obviously, it's not mathematics; unfortunately, in the pandemic mathematics sometimes doesn't work and the results are different. Speaking of how we are now. Obviously, ICUs are wrong. We know that and we saw him say it. It's more, as we say, two weeks ago we took the most restrictive measures that are being taken right now in Spain; the most. Why? Because our ICUs are wrong, and we don't hide it. We didn't tell anyone we were closing because it seemed like we had to close. No, no. We closed because we were reaching similar ICU occupancy values at that time, almost 90% of the peak in March. That's why we take very restrictive measures, that's why we have the hostel closed, so we close the malls on the weekend, or why the shops have to close at 6 p.m., because we're in a critical situation. And we never hide it, Mr. Torrado, we always say how we are. Number of beds is transparent. We say every day... yes, Mr. Torrado, you can go to the website and see every day the patients who are in the ICU. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And if you want to calculate the beds, it's very easy: if you know the total percentage -- that's easy -- you have to make the maximum number of beds that we have available -- it's very easy to do. You can tell me those beds aren't the real ones. Obviously. I'm going to nuance: it's the real ones, it's the beds that the Ministry told us they were until we could get there, and we have a few limitations. I'll give you a date. In Vigo we have a normal ICU, when there is no pandemic, 30 beds; now there are 29 patients covered in Vigo. What does that mean? That we have adapted other resources from critical beds to be able to fit those 29 patients and all those that we don't have. But this is the first basic management. What do you mean, 30 is a lot? Of course it's a lot! So -- I repeat -- 15 days ago we put the most restrictive measures. Tell me you're talking about another hospital? I can speak of another hospital and many, but we never hide that data. We always said the ICU situation was critical. But if you ask me, how are we here about the rest of the state? We're much better, because, with the same definition, all autonomous communities say the percentage. And we, even with that extension -- which is the same thing that makes Asturias, Balearic Islands or Valencia -- are at a lower percentage. That's good. It allows us to have a certain degree. It allows us to take the measures we've taken so far. But, of course, when certain limits are crossed, we took action, and that's what we did 15 days ago. And by the way, we're seeing the results these days. However, I do not want to stop without making a special thank you to those ICU workers, who are making that very important effort, because to their usual workload is added this burden derived from the vault, which no one wants. But in any case, I insist that transparency in this data should never be questioned. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u194	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Ana Pontón Mondelo's inquiry and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the new wave of covid-19 and the vaccination strategy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u195	Mrs. Iria Carreira has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u196	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. You started by talking about your previous intervention of pandemic data in Galicia, and allow me to start in a similar way. The figures that leave us on yesterday's day show that we are in more than 17,000 patients with active infection, one thousand of whom are admitted and 240 are in intensive care. There have been 2,016 deaths since the beginning of the pandemic here in Galicia. And I think it's important to know the figures, to know the absolute numbers, but also to see beyond that -- to see that behind each of these numbers there are people, families, and patients who are living with the aftereffects of the disease, and there are more than 2,000 people who couldn't overcome the disease. These are figures that can never fall into the routine of a part of war and which is important to recognize as what they really are. [[Applause]] So let me from this rostrum remember these people. In a changing epidemiological situation, it is true that when this initiative was registered we were continuing in the ascending slope, which seems to have been when the peak of the third wave approached. The number of infections per day was much greater than they are today, but that's not why the situation we have is less worrisome. Patients entered are reduced slightly, but do not decrease the number of patients entering intensive care. They are the ICUs who, as noted above, have been full time. It is already counting for many months with beds enabled in resuscitation units, awakening units, or where the necessary device could be installed to create critical beds. ICUs like the Santiago de Compostela Clinic Hospital, a unit that is in a sad condition, for which professionals have been on strike for 13 weeks. A unit that does not count in full 2021 with isolated cubicles, which prevents, on the one hand, any possibility of intimacy for patients and of well-being during their income, and which, on the other hand, obliges professionals to endure an PPE throughout the working day. A unit that, in addition, has material in a defective and disastrous state, with the trees that hang the medication lined up in many cases with smashing or empty cabinet doors and which are falling. And to counter this, new equipment that is provided to them when they are overwhelmed by the workload and they are unable to use because they don't get the right training for this. A real purpose. And in view of all this, in the previous plenary we had the opportunity to hear the president of the Galician Union claiming that Galicia was one of the safest places in Europe in the face of the pandemic. You used to talk about percentages, which were acceptable. Allow me to disagree, percentages can be acceptable, but absolute numbers are different. Taking data from the Ministry of Health referred to yesterday, over the last seven days, 105 patients from these critical units have entered throughout Galicia; about a quarter of all of these incomes occurred in the Spanish State during the same period -- the territory that is immediately below this scale is Andalusia, with 50 incomes --. At least, I think these figures deserve a reflection, especially from a government that he so liked to compare with averages throughout the pandemic. [[Applause]] And in the same way, the number of deaths and their progression will also have to be an issue of analysis. As for 2021, they almost died as many people as infected by SARS-COV-2 as during the first wave of the pandemic. In fact, during this third strike, we're watching more than 20 deaths every day; a figure that should put your hair on the edge and arrest all the alarms. All of this pandemic, in addition, is supported by a health system that is suffocated, with its exhausted and overpassed professionals, who have been working in extreme circumstances for a year, with a great amount of work, both physical and psychological, and not to mention the support due to the board of Galicia. Professionals such as primary care; primary care that is asphyxiated by having to bear on their backs the attention of infected patients and their daily follow-up, the request and the conduct of diagnostic tests to patients who are suspected of having contracted infection, and a good part of the tracking of each of them's contacts; added all of this to ordinary care, which, once again, we witness how it is delayed and how it is approaching, not because it's less important, but because it's not enough. They are professionals who continue, a year later, working on the basis of telephone care, something that should be exceptional and temporary and which, on the other hand, is more reinforced by the Administration; professionals who have been giving the best of themselves for a year in order to be able to cope with this pandemic, taking imagination and willing to overcome the deficiencies and deficiencies of the health system; professionals who have not hesitated at a given time to take out a mesa and put it on, even though they were plowing out, to do some antigen tests to patients suspected of suffering from the cage they were in their homes and thus avoid, on the one hand, overloading the car compartment with PCR tests, which would enter a very poor health center for these epidemiological circumstances and put at risk to other patients. And in exchange for this, these professionals only received some kind of admonitions and invitations from the Power to remove that table from the picture that was being given. And I'm talking about the picture that was being given because this seems to be the government's political line: having the best headline, the most beautiful picture, and, as you usually say, not allowing reality to weaken their picture. When in spring -- Mr. Torrado mentioned earlier -- the Joint Government had to be the first to pass all phases of the escalation, after the President today began to put this word on the table again, I will collect his words, Mr. Comesaña, to say that we cannot speak on today's day of descalation at any time. And going to one of the issues that concern us, vaccination also had to be done fast and running, looking for the best headline, though it had not been done in the most efficient and organized way. As an example, the vaccination of health professionals, which began on January 13, was notified to them day and a half earlier. In fact, a list of the workers in each centre was requested from the head of the service. The appointments came before those lists were sent and, in a hurry to get to the beautiful photo, they forgot in many cases to meet fundamental aspects, as if space were really well-equipped and that appointments were well-organized and not that, as happened somewhere, professionals were half an hour in a row waiting for their shift in the middle of their working day. It's a vaccination plan, in addition, that we're proving that it had its goggles, and in which people of doubtful morals took advantage to put their name in lists above people with a greater need for this vaccine, like mayors or CEOs of business groups who justify their immunization, they don't hesitate to do so and don't shake their voice for it, even though there are people who need it much more than they need it. [[Applause]] Since the BNG we have previously requested information on how the following phases of the vaccination plan are planned to be developed. So far we're talking about phases where the target population is easily located, well-users and residents workers, as well as healthcare workers. Anyway, they're people who are all at the same point as a vaccination team and administer all doses there. How are the following phases envisaged when patients are going to be outpatients and will not be concentrated in the same place?, is it placed on the table that is within the health centres or has another infrastructure provision planned? And in this respect, knowing that vaccines have different logistic characteristics, how is the vaccination plan being reconfigured? You commented in the previous plenary that for these next phases, if necessary, primary care nurses would be mobilized; nurses, no doubt, widely trained for vaccination campaigns. How is this staff mobilization planned? With how many professionals and what professional category does primary care strengthen to respond to this Vaccination Plan and the care pressure it has primary care? I've said this before, we've been talking about primary care staff who's been exhausted and who's been carrying a very important workload for a year. To finish, we also consider it worrisome that you can move the expectation that with the arrival of the vaccine you can already see near the post-pandemic horizon, when we know that, although it may be intuitable, that horizon is far away. That's why we also want to ask you: what is the government's forecast to fight about when the immunization of Galician society will be achieved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Iria Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u198	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Carreira, last December 27th we started vaccination against coronavirus in Galicia and Spain; a key moment in this pandemic for what our community was actually prepared for. We were prepared because we had developed a vaccination plan in which they were collected, not only the characteristics of the Pfizer vaccine and then that of Moderna, but also the logistics, organization, registration, training, application, etc. What we didn't know about drawing up this plan -- and we said it here -- was how many vaccines we were going to have and how long we were going to have. It's a perfectly designed plan, according to the National Vaccination Strategy, that Galicia wanted to follow the kid. Following this plan strictly, we started vaccination of residents' staff and their users. Next, first-line health care providers, who were already finished yesterday with the administration of that second dose, and the next group defined by the Strategy is the rest of the health care providers, in this case, social health workers, along with the large dependents and population over 80 years, which will begin in these coming days. Tomorrow, in particular, health care begins, not on the front line... sorry, they started today. There's something important I want to highlight, which is that as much as you ask me here in Parliament, or as much as we're working from the Health Council, we can't go any further if the rate of arrival of doses doesn't increase. Or, in other words, we adapt to the vaccines we have, and even if we want to vaccinate 24 hours, as you said at one time, if we don't have vaccines, it's impossible. At the moment, first there were 12,870 doses, then 21,260, this Monday, 19,890, in this case of Pfizer; from Moderna we received 4,500 doses. And, as you know, since Monday, 11,100 AstraZeneca. Until the vaccines reach a steady and suitable pace for the population group that we need to vaccinate, it is clear that we cannot move forward at the desired pace by all of us; for all of us, because here I think there should be no difference. Surely you and we would like to be able to move forward as quickly as possible. Vaccination, no doubt, will help that the third wave, like the one we're living in, does not repeat itself. We'll reduce deaths, which is the most important, and we'll also reduce the care pressure of hospitals. Of course, I have to add to his words -- and I've already said it in the first intervention -- in that recognition to the relatives and close to those 2,016 victims; of course, that's our greatest concern. In addition to professionals, one of the most interested people in which this doesn't happen again is the health adviser. The third wave exceeded the peaks of almost all the parameters of the pandemic. Unfortunately, the number of hospitalizations, both in the plant and in the ICU, came to be more than last year, as we said earlier. However, what has been demonstrated is that we progress in the treatment that is given to patients. In fact, hospitalizations are longer, but we saved many more lives, although we regret, of course, each of the deaths. That's why we cannot forget, as you well said, all the deceased and all the families who had to suffer the loss of a family member at a time when even the farewell could not be a comfort. But we can't forget the effort of the professionals in the Italian healthcare field, who have allowed and allowed the lives of many Greeks to be saved. Vaccination, in that case, is regarded as the main ally of health care workers. So far, in the development of the Vaccination Plan, there was no problem about living with the third wave -- which was what you were asking -- beyond that in many cases the presence of a groum had prevented us from just vaccinating a residence at a given time. But in all cases where because of the absence of the person from the residence by a groove or by the arrival of new residents, as I suppose they know, these residents are incorporate. In Galicia we decided to count on primary care nurses, indeed. We believe -- and we say it from the very first moment -- that's the main bet for the vaccination campaign, because they've been vaccinating for a long time. This year, 840,000 people were vaccinated from the flu. Our biggest vaccination experts are primary care nurses. And being aware of that, we have taken a step that we have already told you here, which I have already told you in Parliament, which was told by the Director General of Public Health and that we will tell you again as often as necessary: it has taken the step of asking for volunteers among primary care nurses and we have located 200 nurses who took that step. We have formed these nurses, we have given them the necessary material and, most importantly, we have replaced them, because we have hired 200 nurses to occupy the posts of these nurses who have taken the step forward so that the ordinary care activity of primary care centers would not be affected, as it has been. So this was a 10% increase in primary nursing staff, which has been done since December 27, when the campaign started. We believe, moreover, that it was a good decision, because in this way we count on the best professionals for this vaccination process, unlike all we've seen so far, and health centers can continue to work as they came up to now. Regarding the subject of pettys and outposts, the bad picture isn't that; the bad picture is the people waiting outside the health center. We've been saying that health centers are safe centers, we have mechanisms for patients to enter the health center, we're insisting on presence care when it's necessary, and we think that's changing. We've been vaccinated as a first line to all primary care professionals, to 9,150 professionals: PSX, nurses, doctors... everyone is vaccinated, because we think this vaccination is important. And we insist that health centers have structure and requirements to be able to receive a patient who has appointments and, of course, to be able to do a test of antigens, but not in the street, which is what we say to primary care professionals and those of the hospital. We don't think that's the right place. So let's keep insisting: the place to do an antigen test isn't the street, under a tent or in a machine. Then I have to disagree with you. [[Applause]] For the following vaccination groups you were asking, you were told and you will of course count on the nurses of preventive medicine and occupational health, who are the ones who have been vaccinated, for example, by first-line professionals, and who are doing the second-line vaccination right now. And also, of course, we count on the 2,000 primary care nurses, if necessary, by the volume of doses received. For this reason, the Galician board designed this training, which began on December 22, in which more than 13,800 professionals participated and which serves as a repository for the provision of materials permanently. It is constantly updating, for example, with information on the new vaccines available and updating the National Vaccination Strategy. In addition, we organize a webinar. First, a specific for professionals who are part of the vaccination teams, and an already open one, available on YouTube, which has more than 21,300 downloads already. Explanatory videos of questions and even vaccine reconstruction tutorials --66 in total -- were also developed to those who can access the entire population. As for the doses that reach Galicia, we have not known until now what was the criterion used for the distribution of doses, as much as other people had been tired of repeating it. If I had met him, I wouldn't have asked him in the last four interterritorial councils, where I also asked Galicia to provide us with the corresponding doses by Danish population. We have 8.3% of the population over 80 years, so we demand that we be guaranteed in Galicia 8.3% of the vaccines destined for this group. It seems that the new minister has had sufficient consideration to adjust and understand our request, and it seems that the forecasts from early March will respond to that 8.2%. We have all the necessary human resources and infrastructure, but at the moment we are not miracle workers, so we can't move forward in vaccination at the rate desired by everyone, until those vaccines arrive that way. Galicia also counts, as we announced at the beginning of the vaccination process, with a strategic reserve that varies according to the needs in order to be able to shorten when we receive a smaller number of vaccines -- as it has happened twice in this short period -- and, of course, to ensure the administration of the second dose. Yesterday we finished vaccination in the residences and also for first-line health care workers, and today, as I said, we started to vaccinate first-line health care personnel and that, under circumstances such as IT or permits, it could not be incorporated; and between tomorrow and next Sunday 21 we started with the first dose of non-line health care workers, as well as the home care workers, who, as you well know, with the change of last Friday in the AstraZeneca vaccine, only oriented to under 55, we're going to use it in parallel. These groups, home help services, will be vaccinated in hospitals and, from Monday 22, we will vaccinate the older 80s and the larger dependents, who if they will be vaccinated in primary care centers, because, as I said, we believe primary care centers are the right places to vaccinate closely. We have more than one, in some cases, for every county, and it seems to us the right place to do that vaccination, in this case, at the age of 80. Our capacity -- and here I'm going to make a reference to what Mr. Torrado said earlier -- is actually the 2,000 primary care nurses, plus the 200 additional nurses we've reinforced, which is 2,200. At 45 vaccines a day, we know a total of nearly 100,000 vaccines a day, and that, with 2.5 million, is easy to count. It's good for us, Mr. Torrado. That's what we've always done since we made that decision for 200 nurses and 2,000 primary care. Logically, if primary care nurses are involved in vaccination all day long, you'll have to see what is done with the activity of other collectives. But we have something more than primary care nurses in health centers. And there's also the whole reinforcement of hospital care. I'm sure if we had 100,000 vaccines a day, you don't have any doubt that, with the health resources and the ones that needed them, we'd exhaust them all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u199	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. Allow me, first of all, to comment, without the courage of audacity, or to create a controversy, that the plan does have some fissures and that there are health professionals who carry out guards on the hidden plants, who did them throughout the month of January and what goes on February and who still received their first dose today. So I understand that the groups were well prioritized, but it is necessary to make a reflection, at least at a later date, of whether they could coerce themselves or make some mistakes about this. To continue, I would like to add that recognition to the professionals who took a step forward when volunteers were asked to form vaccination teams; professionals who, in addition, in many cases, are potential nurses who chain short-term contracts and who, contrary to the treatment given to them from the administration, from Sergas, did not hesitate to respond properly. And so let me say: are all these 200 nurses covered today? [[Applause]] However, as I said before, although there is a horizon that we can glimpse with the arrival of the vaccine, there is much to come. The problem is, now we have to get to him under the best possible conditions. I ask: how is Galician Union considering the protection of health professionals? And I'll explain why. We have a record that there are health centers where the FFP2 masks are not being given, or that, if they are given, it's a much lower amount than I was stipulated. The explanation given to them by the workers from the agencies is that the computer application does not allow to request any more. Which never ceases to be curious, interesting or peculiar, given that it is the very agency to which it stipulates which is the maximum number that can be demanded. So why are the branches marking a smaller number of FFP2 masks than it should be? Why are criteria changed and given, for example, for CAP professionals who perform shifts, in some cases, of seven or eight hours, but in others it is 17 or 24 hours, a single FFP2 mask? Relaxation in prevention measures can also bring us hand events like what is going on today in the press about Larouco's residence; a residence where all its residents or users had received the two doses of vaccination, but we have four cases of curfew. So I think it's important not to fall into relaxation, both by the Administration and also by the population, to assume that it's all done, because it's a long time to accomplish it. And as for the machine's anecdote, if you want, then we'll talk more deeply about it. It was a table, just as the professionals designed it... they took note that, although the health centers are safe, the health center in question was a center with a high demand, with a high attendance of patients, and that's why they got out of the tests, within the cars of the patients themselves, similar to the way autocovids work. So we also believe that not recognizing their ability to anticipate and overcome circumstances that are not being optimal and, on the other hand, that they receive admonitions, it's a bit of a mismanagement, a bad way to thank them for their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Iria Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u202	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Carreira, it's obvious that when a process of vaccination of the number of people who have been vaccinated in Galicia this short time -- we speak of more than 50,000 people, of the 22,000 residents scattered in 566 centers -- it seems that it's easy to go to residences and that the complicated thing is to go to health centers. No, the complicated thing is to go to residences, get the residents ready and try to do it as soon as possible. In those 22,000 residents, 17,000 workers of socio-sanitary residences, from cooking pins to specific residential caregivers, 21,000 first-line health workers, in that whole group of people, it's easy to make a mistake, and, in fact, we've already apologized for some specific ones; of course, we're not going to apologize for others who are not mistakes. And I'm going to nude. It was no mistake to vaccinate administrations in Pontevedra. Primary care administrators, for example, have been vaccinated and well vaccinated, and the ICU administrators or the well-vaccinated Pontevedra Hospital's emergencies are. I mean, in that sense, we think that that inclusive vaccination was well done. Obviously, the criterion set for first-line vaccination, as I explained a few weeks ago in this Parliament, was graphically the following: everyone behind a door that put "Covid, don't pass," was vaccinated. If someone wasn't behind that unit, even if he had promptly entered those units to do an interconsultation, that wasn't considered the first line. Because if those who keep guards in a medical service because they went one day to the covered plant are first line, great, we'd be delighted to be able to do it, but we have these vaccines and there are these people for the first line, with which, we adapt to a strict criterion. And a worker from a cardiology plant, for example, who goes on time to a cod unit, if he doesn't work in the cod unit, it's not the first line. It is questionable, but that was the criterion we adopted, and basically that was what we followed. In any case, it is also true that from January 13th, which began vaccination, until today, there are units that were not cowardly and that we had to hide them. So, we're aware that some people weren't in that first classification as first line and that we had to change that criterion, so yesterday all those people who were in that transitional situation, let's say. You ask me if all the squares are covered. That's the instruction we gave and we believe that, mostly, yes. All the nurse squares that took that step and are part of the covid teams are replaced. If not, we'd have to see it, but that's the idea, and it's basically like that. As far as the protection of health care is concerned, I think I just said it right now and that I have said it in these last interventions: there is no doubt. The Galician Board of Health has prioritized the safety of health care workers... well, before the health care professionals, it has prioritized the safety of residents of socio-sanitary homes, and that's why it has put forth effort to vaccinate them first, and without vaccinating anyone else. The only health workers who were vaccinated in those early weeks were the vaccination teams; the others did not get vaccinated. The priority was residences. Once the residences are finished, between the first and the second dose, we did the sanitary. To whom? The front-line ones we've already commented on and all primary care, I insist again on this. So the biggest commitment to primary care security is the determined vaccination and the way it's done. By the way, I didn't hear any criticism of any primary care center regarding vaccination. There's something certain there was, because we have many primary care centers and 9,150 professionals have been vaccinated, but no criticism has come, and you couldn't even say something about primary care, beyond a queue waiting for place. And with regard to the vaccination point, I think the vaccination point doesn't require it to be a vaulted room for now to vaccinate. We must have a distance, as is done with the evidence... so I insist that the security measures are all that can be put on. We have adopted, in addition, a short time ago -- they know -- the decision that everyone who pays direct attention to patients in the healthcare field will have access to an FFP2 mask. And we have enough mascarillas, both in the administrations and in the center of Black, to supply all the masks that we're asked for. There's no problem with that. So it will be a matter of supply that will have to be reviewed, but there is no instruction, of course, and on the contrary, all protection to health care. You were talking about Larouco's case. We know, unfortunately, that even if residents are vaccinated, the vaccine is not infallible. One is talking about a percentage of effectiveness, which, as we know, although very high, does not reach 100 percent; and then, still in that effectiveness, contagion cannot be avoided. That's why we keep doing every week, on Monday, a crab with antigens, and on Thursday, a spit with saliva tests at CRP. That allows us to detect the grobes as soon as possible and make isolation. One thing that's true -- we're noticing it, and we're going to do the corresponding objective studies -- is that this decision to prioritize socio-sanitary residences is causing -- as it was expected, but one might have doubts -- a decrease in the contagion in residences, incomes and gravity, which we're extremely glad about, and which confirms that vaccines work. That's why we're going to follow that bet. Then, if you like, we'll talk about the Bureau. In any case, if I want to insist that we bet on primary care. We gave you tools from the first moment of access to information, from PCR testing request -- I spoke before those 12 hours of average response we had in June -- we kept giving you access to evidence to do in the car wash, as well as antigen tests in primary care centers. Obviously, I say that innovation in the way of testing is totally welcome, but we also need to be careful with people so they don't wait at the door of health centers. That's why we're going to keep insisting because, in addition, we think we can do it. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u203	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u204	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session with agenda item 7, from questions to the Government. Question by Da Paloma Castro Rey and Fr. Pablo Arangéna Fernández, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the necessary recovery of social dialogue with the Adscribed Police Unit
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u205	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u206	Thank you, President. Our forces and bodies of security are composed of an extraordinary human team, men and women whose profession is synonymous with the vocation to serve a democratic society to face our rights and new freedoms. This work is also synonymous with a commitment, which takes them in no small way to take forward their safety and health, even endangering their lives to make our lives effective. From the beginning of this pandemic, they play a fundamental role. The bodies and security forces are developing in our community a vital task of maintaining order, ensuring the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks, ensuring compliance with health standards. And all of this they do is complement it with humanitarian work in hospitals, major centers, homes of people who live alone; ultimately, they help whenever they are required or required. But, surprisingly, all this work is not being considered by the Government of the Council of Galicia, which, for a few months, has been in constant contempt, questioning this professionalism and even refusing to receive them and to meet their demands, as is the case with the Adscript Police. Mr. Feijó was complaining he didn't have his security device in command. And those who have it don't receive them. The attitude the Government of Galicia is having with representatives of the Autonomic Police is a total contempt. As I said, you refuse to receive them, you don't meet your requirements and you ignore the legitimate requests that these are making. The Galician Union despises trade union organizations representing most of the officials and officials of the Under-Secretary of Police. From January 2020 until today, after many requests for meetings by application for registration, and even publicly, the Director General of the Interior received them only once, and to try to wash his face. Yes, I'm talking about a facial wash to carry out the procedure, because the only thing he passed on to them at that meeting was that he had no economic decision-making capacity, which is the same thing as saying nothing. But he used it to sell in the press that he had received them. Mr. Rueda, where are you, who is in front of the Interior Council and is therefore the highest autonomous authority in this area? Why are you showing that clear contempt and discrimination towards our autonomic police? You have spoken to the People's Party when they demand the most effective Central Government, when they publish the safety of the Way in this Xacobeo or the reinforcement plan for the safety of victims of gender-based violence. But then there are none of the professionals who have to run these plans, who are the officers of the Autonomic Police. And the worst thing is they ignore their claims. They are claims as fair as the need for individual anti-ball vests -- for acts on gender violence, because we all know the violence with which some abusers can act -- or even greater transparency, they demand more transparency in gratification for regular services and ask the Union for objective criteria and not mere taxation and friendship, as it is doing so far. A few months ago, we had a clear example of these friendshipisms with the Galician Union's proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Castro. Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Castro. You ask this question, which is obviously a question of charge. A union is responsible for asking this question, and you do it. And, of course, that charge prevents you from seeing what really are the problems facing the Assistant Police Unit and what might be the solutions -- which are in your hand --. So the first thing I'm going to ask you is that you don't confuse the prestige of the Adscript Police Unit. As for your members, you say, first, that I'm very good, but then you say I'm a disaster because of the Galician Union. Don't confuse the problem that some union representative might have with the problems of the unit. The problems the Assistant Police Unit has are much more serious, Mrs. Castro, and they have nothing to do with me when I meet a union representative or stop meeting others. Trade union representatives meet both with the commissioner and with the general director as well as with me; hence there is no problem. I guess you won't want to arrange my schedule with me, with whom I meet and with whom I don't. So, as I suppose the question won't go around, we're central in what really matters in my opinion and, by the way, in the opinion of the vast majority of the professionals who form the Adscript Police Unit. Look, Mrs. Castro, the problem with the unit is that it's losing power all the time. We've been complaining for a long time -- already with the previous government too, eh! President Rajoy's, and of course with this government. I wrote to Mr. Marlasca when he was appointed Minister of the Interior and told him that we had a serious problem that he didn't do but increase all this time. I got an answer -- which I thanked at the time -- and I said he was going to take care of the subject and I'd say something. Two years later we know absolutely nothing. We know the reality, that they're still lowering the troops of the Under-Secretary of Police, and we know we have no news of whether the troops will be strengthened towards Xacobeo. You, by the way -- your group -- voted against an initiative to strengthen precisely the Ministry of the Interior's terms of reference for security in Jacobo also through the Assistant Police Unit. [[Murmurs.]] We don't know anything about whether you're going to put yourself in the center of 112th Street; we don't know why the Ministry of the Interior has been denied PCR to members of the National Police that aren't an Assistant Police unit, he told us not -- the Civil Guard, yes, but the National Police, nothing -- ; we don't know why the vests that are in collective use -- that we're providing -- are already supplied and, on the other hand, from the individual use -- which is a matter of the Ministry of the Interior -- we don't know anything at all. In short, we don't know anything that really matters in the Assistant Police, but we know that doesn't matter to you. It matters to you that a specific representative of a union is not received. Those are all the problems you have with the Assistant Police Unit. Unfortunately they have many more, and they have to do with, above all, the loss of troops. But that doesn't matter to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u209	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u210	Thank you, President. I didn't distract the subject, because it wasn't. I asked him why he didn't recover social dialogue with union representatives of the Assistant Police. Because the way you act with the autonomic police is a level of friendship that breaks the decor. It's just that I'm suspending first of all democracy. And if it is true, it is true that it meets. But with the only union representative you're meeting with the Assistant Police, it's the one on the list of the People's Party to the Pontevedra Town Hall. It's the only one you've met with! [[Applause]] And it represents the minority union, not the majority union. So, friendship, follow-up and lack of answers is what they're doing. And they do ask for more individual vests to be able to carry out their work, as they are doing in other autonomous communities. You didn't ask the Central Government, you didn't lie, Mr. Rueda. I'm asking for transparency. Do you now undertake to act with transparency and meet objective criteria in the next contest of merits? Look, the attitude of contempt of what I'm talking about is not only limited to your attitude to the Adscript Police, but the attitude of the president of the board lately is Kafkiana. The contempt of the state's bodies and security forces questions their attitude, questions that they're enforcing the health safety rules. You don't even listen to them or count on them, and even above the President of the Board falls into continuous contempt for the attitude of the police. Please change your attitude because you're guaranteeing our security and doing a commendable job, especially at this time of pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Castro. Close the question by the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u212	Yes, Mrs. Castro, when you're given an order to bring a question here, that gives you the data, that gives you the data. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're talking about the majority union. I don't think it's the subject, honestly, but, since you're dealing with it, you get a good idea of the membership percentages in the Assistant Police Unit. Then maybe it would give the data well, because you gave a data that has nothing to do with it. Maybe they cheated on you, maybe they didn't want to tell you what's going on so you could ask this question -- that I know it's not the subject that I answered --. I know that's not the point, actually. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The point is that the Adscribed Police Unit, which performs a magnificent service and performs its duties perfectly, can do it a little less well every day because it's losing force. This is the great theme, this is what we all had to deal with, and more in a year like Jacob. That doesn't matter to you. If we bring it here and ask for it, you vote against it because no vote can be taken in favour of asking the Central Government what it really has to do, it will not be a nuisance. That's the way it is. There are things that are very important and there are things that are fundamental. This is fundamental, we need to complete the troops. I know that doesn't matter to you, he voted against you and your group of such elementary things. You'll tell me what explanation you have to deny us to complete the Assistant Police Unit, to deny that these magnificent functions of what you're talking about on your exhibition site later will be able to comply with how to fulfill them because they have fewer and fewer people to be able to do so. This is the fundamental thing, and from there there are many other consequences I've already told you: the theme of the vests, the theme of the headquarters, the theme of salary supplements, all that. Everything that depends on the Galician Union is being accomplished. Everything that depends on the Ministry of the Interior is not being accomplished. [[Murmurs.]] But this is what we always talk to union representatives when we meet with them. Of course, there's someone who might be upset because it's not my schedule like he'd like it to be. But I don't think that's the point, honestly. You, of course, can bring here what you need, what you think appropriate, and I have to answer you. But if you want to talk about priorities, talk about real priorities. The rest are charges they don't deserve any more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u213	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Ramón Fernández Alfonso and Da Noa Presas Bergantinos, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions being carried out in Galicia regarding the situation of the Bridges in connection with the closure of the thermal power plant
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u214	Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u215	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG brings back to the plenary a question concerning the situation of the Bridges. In spite of not answering our questions on previous occasions more than vaguely, such as with the workers or in favor of biofuels without further detail, we will insist on our demand for answers and realization on the plans and actions of the Board to resolve the industrial crisis caused by the closure of the thermal, if you have any plans. You tell me he's with the workers. What are you doing to avoid transfers from Endesa staff? What are you doing to avoid redundancies from auxiliary industry staff? What are you doing about the carriers? You say you're in favour of biofuels, but this, without further detail, is like being in favour of peace in the world. Such a project needs to be concrete and quantified. What plan or expectations does Galician Union manage with respect to biofuels? How many groups could you keep working? Would they work permanently or possibly? How do you plan to feed the installation?, with muds of the yellow cattle farms?, with muds of the town's debuggers?, would you bring the muds out of Galicia? What price of kilowatt do you want to be able to enter the system? And in the hypothetical case -- though likely -- that Endesa decides that burning biofuels is not your business, can you force Endesa to perform that activity? Do you have an alternative for that stage? We, Mr Vice-President, fear that the biofuel project, at best, is nothing more than a partial solution that does not compensate for the closure of the thermal groups, so it seems reasonable to have alternatives. And, above all, it seems to us an obligation of the German Government to be involved in a crisis that not only affects the employment of a village or region, but rather the energy model of a country. It seems reasonable in this situation to push once and for all the transition agreement, which in other territories, such as Asturias or Aragon, is already underway -- and already has planned investments --. It seems reasonable in this context of energy transition to bet decisively on technology, especially for those we know that they will be critical and that they can serve as impetus, incentive or complement to attract other industrial projects -- hence the BNG proposal to set up a technology center for R+D+i on energy storage in the village of the Bridges, which is a proposal, by the way, that goes in line with what the document says about the storage strategy that runs the Ministry and is being rejected by the People's Party --. Finally, Mr Vice-President, quantify the biofuel project to know what we're talking about, explain that other alternatives handle Galician Union and why it's against the technology centre for the Bridges. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u216	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. Mr. Vice-President's reply to the Economic, Business and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, the Galego Nationalist Block is unfortunately not a mere spectator of what is happening at the bridge center. And the truth is, I'm surprised at your intervention, because it seems that you come here to act as a chronicler when they are actually necessary co-operatives, along with Endesa, of the situation that unfortunately is crossing the bridge center today and which, therefore, can put their continuity at risk. You -- I remind you -- are government partners of Pedro Sánchez, and therefore the negative consequences of Galicia's state transition model have no doubt that they come under the terms of the Galician Nationalist Block. I remind you, Your Honor, that thanks to the intervention of the Galician Council, we managed to get Endesa to approve in 2016 an investment of EUR 217 million to reform this power plant and adapt it to the new EU Emissions Directive -- contrary to the BNG criterion --. I remind you that thanks to the statement made by the Galician Council, we made the commitment of the Transitional Ministry to be able to work on the development of evidence to see whether it was viable or not the use of fuel -- contrary to the BNG criterion --. I remind you that thanks to the intervention of the Galician board, we have managed Endesa to rectify and admit that the use of biofuels at the bridge centre is technically feasible and environmentally viable -- contrary to the BNG criterion --. And I remind you that at this time we are working together at the Galician Summit, the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Council of Bridges precisely to seek the economic viability of the continuity of the power plant and that, therefore, we can guarantee industrial continuity, Mr. Fernández, industrial continuity -- against, once again, the BNG criterion --. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, ladies, the question is, where is the BNG?, where is the BNG? Surely the BNG is next to those who defend the announcement of the closure of the bridge power station and now come here trying to be chronicists. But, look, Mr. Fernández, we're going to continue to work to ensure the continuity of the bridge plant, we're going to continue to work so that the auxiliary industry has continuity in its development and we're going to continue to work so that transporters can continue their work, and that's against the BNG criterion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u218	Thank you, Mr. Second Vice President. Mr. Fernández Alfonso's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u219	Mr. Vice-President, your lack of concretion, your balloons out there and your fear of questioning the opposition instead of fulfilling your obligation to be accountable to the total absence of your department in this serious industrial crisis. Their answers are always the same. It's true that there's no lack of good words either, what are missing are projects and money, projects with budget allocation. That's what measures the degree of commitment of a given target. But you'd rather live out of play. You and your government are putting themselves in the absolute irrelevance in everything that has to do with industry in this country, and they do it on their own will. It's the policy not to bother. Mr Vice-President, it exercises its powers, compromises itself with a solution for the Bridges that keeps it linked to the energy sector, pushes the transition agreement, quantifies and implements the biofuel project and compromises itself with the establishment of the technology centre for the storage of energy that is bursting with that role that we have historically seen, of mere energy suppliers, to give us a qualitative leap that consolidates in the Bridges a complementary, technologically advanced and high-value added industry. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u220	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. You close this question by the second vice president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, I sincerely tell you that the BNG should leave behind the sign and tell you once whether it's in favor or against the continuity of the bridges with biofuels. Because they haven't spoken yet, and the lack of pronunciation results in that you're not, in which you are against that the bridge power station can continue its activity with the use of biofuels. Well, we're in favor. And we're against the BNG criterion -- as I said before --. Unfortunately, that's the reality. Look, the BNG has a legislative agreement signed with the Socialist Party. I remind you that the Galego Nationalist Block does not ask for industrial continuity and the jobs that depend on the power station, it did not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So that you come here to try to defend the jobs of the Bridges is simply a political anachronism; therefore, you should review that legislative agreement with the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] And you tell me about the fair transition agreements. What do you think if we talk about the fair transition agreement that your government, your government partner, has signed with the companies, Mr. Fernández, and with the unions, and has left out the autonomous communities? What if you join this government to demand from your partner in Madrid that you admit to an allowance that the Galician Union participates in the fair transition agreement, in which, among other things, you decide on training in active employment policies in which the autonomous community has competence? Why not join Galicia and let that sectarianism from an energy point of view, which simply brings about industrial unemployment? Because you don't defend industrial continuity and tell me about a technology center, Mr. Fernández. What an irony! How about we talk to the bridge workers now about technology centers? You're going to tell them. I'm not, I'm going to defend industrial work, and logically also linked to knowledge and knowledge centers, to technological centers. But here we came to talk about industrial project. So, Mr. Fernández, your industrial curriculum is written -- unfortunately for Galicia -- and surely the Galician Nationalist Block should continue to entertain ideology, rallying with Otegi and Junqueras We, meanwhile, Mr. Fernández, will continue to act, we will continue to work, together with the company committee and the workers, defending their situation -- and, above all, defending industrial employment in the Bridges, against the BNG criterion --. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u222	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the increase in the budgetary share allocated to the trade sector for the year 2021 to ensure its liquidity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u223	Whenever you want, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u224	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President. The high incidence of covid-19, along with the measures that had to be taken to contain the spread of the virus, had a strong impact on trade and led to the suspension practically of all commercial activity for months, which, after reopening, is still limited by several restrictions. Prior to this crisis, the future of trade was becoming increasingly uncertain. Without a doubt, this sector is one of the great damage to the pandemic caused by the coward-19, but its delicate situation is not new. Before the virus arrived, trade had already closed in Galicia an average of six daily establishments for lack of generational change, over-supply supply, atomization of large chains, rise of electronic commerce and total neglect of Mr. Feijóo's government. In trade, 1,073 companies in Galicia disappeared in 2019. The Galician Trade Federation estimates that between 20 % and 25 % of businesses could close over this 2021. In 2020 1,384 self-employed businesses were closed in Galicia. And 2021 makes all bookmarks registered to date worse at the beginning of the year. Only in this January month have 836 businesses closed, an average of 25 closures a day, 25 closures a day! [[Applause]] Most of the activities that had to be closed in the special self-government regime are concentrated on two activities: hospitality and commerce, which are the companies most affected by the restrictions imposed by the Galician Union. The trade sector was not a priority sector for the Galician Union either before or after the crisis caused by the coronovirus, not before or after! Aid to minimize the impact of Covid-19 on trade has been scarce, remains scarce and will remain scarce if they continue without increasing the share of aid for trade. And, by the way, they came late, too late. That's why this sector is demanding a rescue plan for the autonomic executive. Vice-President, do you think it's reasonable that in 11,500 million you have budget -- by the way, thanks to the State's contribution -- they only increased trade by 7 million? Do you think it's reasonable for 11,500 million, which, in your opinion, is the highest budget in Galician history? Really? Seven million in 11,500?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u225	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u226	Mr Vice-President, will Junta increase the budget allocation for trade?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u227	Thank you. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u228	Your Honor, I regret this vision so partial and, above all, so partisan that you have the situation of commerce and hostel in Galicia in the face of a pandemic like the one we are suffering. And I'm sorry that you come here simply with the sole objective of justifying the absence of measures by the central government, that this is the only reading of your intervention. Because, look, Mrs. Gallego, the government has been from the very first moment with the economic sectors that most needed help from the Council of Galicia. We've been with the self-employed, we've been with the small and medium-sized companies, we've been with the trade sector and we've been with the hospitality sector with a reactivation plan that you don't want to recognize but that we've started in June with direct support -- and also providing funding for the needs of the productive sectors and, above all, trade and hospitality --. You want to deny here the qualitative and quantitative importance of the rescue plan that is launching the Galician Union, which has no kind of similarity in the rest of Spain, Your Honor, no kind of similarity! It's 160 million euros that we're going to mobilize in ninety days. It has no precedent, nor has it any type of situation that can be approved in the rest of the territory. That's right, you don't want to admit here is that Spain is in line, Your Honor. Spain, the Government of Spain, is in line for direct aid against the crisis. And it doesn't say so to the Galician Council, the European Central Bank, which is pointing out that Spain is actually giving the least response from the point of view not only direct aid but also aid to taxation from the point of view of trade and from the point of view of the hospitality. We will continue, Your Honor, supporting trade, we will continue to support the hospitality. You should know -- because I moved it to the last question -- that was 4,711 requests received from trade in the first rescue plan and that 82% were already paid with an budget close to 9 million euros -- that were not budgeted at the Economic Council, because this is a government, this is not segmented departments like the Government of Spain --. I understand you're used to the one I have to identify twenty-two boxes. But here, not here, there's a government that works together and, therefore, there's 9 million euros that since the Employment Council are working for the trade sector. And we will continue, Your Honor. We are going to meet with trade, we will continue to identify measures and we will continue to accompany the needs that both trade and hospitality as well as self-government and small and medium-sized enterprises have. And everything in spite of the Government of Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u229	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u230	Thank you, President. Of course, vice president, we don't talk to the same sectors of commerce, it seems. Because, let's go, I take a few meetings and they don't pass me on to anything you say. I'm telling you, please talk to the people of commerce. Because, of course, it's not the same thing they told me. Last week I was with a president of a Vigo trades federation and you know what he said to me? It was very clear: "We need direct help, direct assistance for basic expenses, such as rent, light, water, etc." -- basic expenses, direct support for basic expenses. It's seen that we don't talk to the same people, it's seen. We demand a true rescue plan for the trade sector. The Galician Union is the one with the resources, sufficient resources. And it must be remembered that the Galician Union received 224 million euros last year from the deeply lost state that people affected by the fall in economic activity had to be targeted. Where's that money? Why were they not used to rescue the trade sector or the hospitality sector? Where's that money? It's a shame! And more than that, this year you will receive another 441 million of the recovery aid funds for the cohesion of Europe's territories with the same objective. They use that money to help small and medium-sized commerce and hostage. They use that money. Why don't they? Why don't you do it, Mr. Second Vice President? The Galician Union is obliged to rescue the trade sector, because its competences are its own, not from the municipalities. Trade competitions are from Galician Union. And it is also you, Mr. Feijóo's government, who make health decisions, who close the institutions and are the ones who have the responsibility to save the Greek trade.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u231	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Close the question by the second vice president and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u232	Mrs. Gallego, look, I repeat to you that neither the Central Government nor the Deputies of Pontevedra and Lugo nor the Vigo Town Hall have direct help to hostage, trade and other businesses affected by the cowardice. Let me speak to you here about the Vigo Town Hall... Your Honor, the Vigo Town Hall is charging you with the IBI and the tax of economic activity to the shops that are closed today. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you agree that the Vigo Town Hall will cover the IBI at the hostel, which at the moment has to be closed by a pandemic situation? [[Murmurs.]] This government disagrees and seems regrettable about the behaviour the Vigo Council is having in this case. [[Applause]] From there on, Your Honor, we will continue to work with trade and we will continue to work with the most affected sectors. We have an investment greater than 160 million euros through this rescue plan. You tell me about the RACT. Do you agree that the Government is limiting us 100 million euros from the REACT fund? You know that the REACT fund is intended for different activities; among them, for health, health, lordship, social and educational needs. Or do you think that the action of the Galician Union is simply for what you consider appropriate? No, no, we're meeting the needs of the health pandemic, we're meeting the social needs, we're meeting the educational needs and, of course, we're also meeting the needs of trade and productive tissue. And, therefore, Your Honor, I think they should be a little more humble, and should, above all, defend the interests, in this case, of the Greeks. And, unfortunately, you are defending the performance of a government in Spain that is abandoning trade and hospitality, which is abandoning trade and hospitality. And you just come here to try to justify it. For it is regrettable, Your Honor, that the Government of Spain is currently not taking fiscal measures to defend trade and hospitality and that it is not adopting a package of direct aid measures as other countries are doing -- like Germany or France --. I repeat, Spain is declared as the country of all Europe that less direct aid is for the productive sectors. Your Honor, that is, unfortunately, a shame. I deeply regret your defense position of the Government of Spain in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u233	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Diego Calvo Pouso and six other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of Galicia on the rise, from 1 January this year, on the beaches of AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u234	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, last week it was an honour to be able to defend in Congress a joint request from this Parliament on the transfer of AP-9. We said at that time that it was a long process, that it had its procedures, but that, in parallel with that process that needs to be developed, we call on the Joint Transfer Commission to move forward in the negotiation between the Galician Union and the ministry, and above all that is fulfilled with the commitments made. We were specifically talking about the lifting of the peaxe of the Vigo-Redondela tranche and, above all, the reduction of the cost of the fees. In 2019 President Sánchez became president after promising to transfer AP-9 to Galicia and to promise to reduce the fees. In 2020, the general State budget was approved, including subsidies in the fees. And in February 2021, we don't know anything. Well, we know something better. We know that in January the rates rose in Galicia by 0.92%. So it's not that they didn't do anything, they did the opposite of what they had committed. It was Sánchez who shielded the rise of 1% annually for the next two decades. It's the world backwards, because it's the fourth consecutive year on which this AP-9 turns into the most uphill highway in Spain. We were saying in Congress the other day that the trip between La Coruña and Vigo is three euros more expensive than in December 2018, which was when that request for transfer was last discussed. And we said everything that happened in AP-9 affected thousands of families and businesses every day in Galicia. So this is the world backwards. It's not enough not to do what's promised, it's not enough to increase the fees, but it's also guaranteed the rise for two decades. But if that wasn't enough yet, now what the Ministry is asking of the Council of Galicia is that it will help pay the fees it had committed to. So we wanted to ask him a question. And that's what valuation makes the Government of Greece that the fees are going to increase again on January 1st and not all the expectations we've had are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u235	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u236	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Calvo, the story of AP-9 with a socialist government in Spain because it is the chronicle of an injury to the Greeks. As long as we see the motorways in Spain fall their beaches or disappear, as AP-9 in Galicia rises. He was seen coming. We warned him, and so we did. Pedro Sánchez's government has committed bonuses and has also committed to eliminating these extraordinary rises. They said their allies, their socialist disciples in Galicia, of course, yes, that it is a firm commitment that is in budgets. Well, that's how it happened. On January 1st, Pedro Sanchez's government authorized a new extraordinary rise of the beaches. And we regret that the Government of Spain has failed to repair itself in giving green light to that extraordinary rise in the fees and that that extraordinary rise has been included knowing for months -- months, I repeat again, because it is a tremendously important thing that they ignore -- that there is a report from the Advisory Council that says that these extraordinary subs are null and void, but no matter what! It goes up almost 1% -- it's the fourth consecutive rise --. And the current Government of Spain gives this sad honour to the AP-9 of being the most highway in all of Spain this year. So Pedro Sánchez said yes, without blushing himself to violate his given word. Because he has compromised the release of the toll in Roundla, and we don't know anything about the toll in Roundla for years. We don't know about these bonuses that were promised, nor do we know about the demands of the neighbors of Chapela, those broken roads that don't fix, those acoustic screens that don't stand. The teachers, who have to have the windows of the children open, have to teach the classes with microphones because there's no such acoustic screens. There's, therefore, a list of endless aggravations that's growing. And we see how the current government of Spain is because it's the defense attorney of Audasa. We see how the Government of Spain goes to Galicia asking for 15 million to give Audasa -- and also for the following years --. Then, what is -- I wonder --? It sounds like a joke, an impassioned request that Audasa also made. Audasa also asks the Galician Council to give him money, dancing at the same sound, with the same song, Audasa and the current government of Spain. The music, of Galician, nothing!, but dancing it at the same time, without smell and, of course, without memory. There is a 2018 agreement that exempts the Galician Board from paying those bonuses. The Council of State says there's an unfair enrichment in these extraordinary ups. We know that the Government of Spain does not like the reports of the Council of State, but we are not surprised that the Socialist Party also asks the Council of Galicia to grant the AP-9 fees. The necessary investments are not made and there are two clear things: the discredit of the Government of Spain -- unable to fulfill its promises -- and the need to achieve a fair transfer of AP-9.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u237	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u238	Thank you very much, Counselor. The truth is, as a parliamentary group -- our own -- and as Government of Galicia, we must have a strategy to try to pressure the government of the state to meet its commitments. Because, if you, at some point or out of strange circumstances, thought you'd be able to count on the support of the other groups that are not the People's Party, let me tell you that it won't be that way. The Socialist Party presented here last week in this Parliament an initiative where it was worth Mr. Tourinho's first to worry about AP-9. I think so! In 1994 he was, as Secretary of State, with Mr Borrell, the first to increase the duration of the AP-9 concession. I know that members of the Socialist Group probably don't know, but this makes sure that with the Socialist Group we won't be able to count. And unfortunately, I don't think we can count on the other groups who are used to being behind a sign and talking to their little mouth. If you really believed that you could lower those rates, if you wanted to lower the rates, you would put governments on the table in the deputies and in the councils to portray the Socialist Party. What happens is it's easier to talk to your little mouth and keep your chair. [[Applause]] That's what it's all about. That is why, Counsellor, who knows that you can count on this parliamentary group to carry out any claim before the Government of the State despite other groups that speak a lot but do little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u239	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Close this question by the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u240	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, many of the problems we have detected from AP-9 -- shortcomings, no bonuses or extraordinary increases -- would be solved or very close to the solution if the government that presides over Pedro Sánchez had called us to those follow-up commissions that we have in AP-9 and that do not care about us. Because the truth is that we have this committee that has been created, and we want to move concrete needs, dialogue, that we listen to the Greeks in that committee. And it wasn't due to lack of insistence. I have one, two, three, four... I have a rosary of applications here. Yes, it is tremendous that, of course, an administration is asked on repeated occasions and does not answer one. The Secretary of State does not answer any requests for attention from the AP-9 follow-up commission. It's unfortunate because we would have solved a lot. I hope that a new stage will be opened in Congress and that we can maintain that consensus on the transfer of AP-9. Mr. Calvo, you have already said in your speech in Madrid that the transfer of AP-9 is an act of justice and, with the law in hand, it is a demand that we have been making since the Unity of Galicia since 2009. And we have reached consensus here in parliamentary procedure, but there is a lot of work ahead, there are many steps left. And the truth is that the transfer is more necessary now than ever with all this rosary of non-compliances I've already reported in my first intervention. It's more necessary than ever because for more efficient management -- because we're stuck to the territory -- more effective to ensure the quality of the service and also to have a much more appropriate response. I'm sure the answer would be much more agile, much more appropriate and tailored to the needs of the Greeks. With that open negotiation in Madrid I hope Galicia assumes the competences and those functions as it should be and as it is basic, in the most just conditions for Galicia -- I hope that we all agree and that now you do not break the pact by a real defense of all the Greeks and to assume that control to give the best conditions to the Greeks and that AP-9 is at the service of the Greeks, not what we are seeing, which is all the opposite --. And, therefore, we have to work for the future of this highway, which connects five of the seven big cities -- they are 220 kilometers and it means a great effort that we want to take -- and for that transfer, of course, to be fair and accompanied -- as it has to come -- with the economic and technical resources needed to give it the best functionality. It's an opportunity to prove that we can do much better -- because we will do much better --. And I repeat again for the last time, with regard to this follow-up commission of AP-9 -- and to defend the Greeks -- that answer us so that the bonuses can be applied, that we can have a dialogue and defend the Greeks in that follow-up commission that does not want to meet the Government of Spain. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u241	Thank you, Counselor. Da Ana Pontón Mondelo's question and eighteen other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the interests that can move the Government of the Union to avoid the maintenance of the socio-economic fabric of the Folgoso do Courel council by convening a school transport contest that unifys the routes in lots that do not meet the needs of the municipality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u242	You have the floor to Mrs. Aira Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u243	The BNG is accompanying the educational community and the people of the Courel in their demands for care for their children and also for their social and economic fabric. All of this comes from a school transport contest that tenders the Education Council for the CPI Uxio Novoneira. He does it with bases that are insomumable for the maintenance of the socio-economic fabric of the Courel saw. It worsened the school transport services that were adequately satisfying the needs of children and children, and kept taxi services in the municipality for all the passage population that kept jobs. On the one hand, and with regard to the damage to creatures, it is behind the design of transport routes that were made by a company that we don't know about -- but that you appreciate -- with stops and measures of fictional times, which reduces the routes from six to four, which alienates the creatures from their homes and leaves them to the weather -- because they have no place to protect themselves --. You add to a time of immense travel with unnecessary risks for the distances to be travelled, the types of roads and vehicles that require -- which are just from a maximum of 9 square feet to a microbuses of up to 25 --. We wonder if you've seen the board of directors what the consequences will have for this girl to have to live this penosity sustained over time -- probably for the four years that the contest will last --. They can't violate the rights of the Courel girls and children, or of any other place on the mountain, by forcing them to make much more effort to study whether they actually lived in the town hall on the other side -- without going further --. This implies a principle of equality which should, in theory, guarantee us the law. On the other hand, with the excuse of the demands of the European Union and the rules of public sector contracts, they have made macro-lots to meet these needs, and they again violate the principle of equality when the current service providers are prevented from participating in the conditions imposed. We assume that you will have a job recovery plan for this area that mitigates this loss of jobs and we also assume that you will have a plan "b" to provide the municipality with services for the mobility of its inhabitants. It is clear that the BNG is not asking them to contract their fingers, we ask that reason, logic and legality be used to give an opportunity to the socio-economic and human fabric of the Courel saw and not leave the municipality losing population in free fall. - I have to look at time because I don't see it, and it's over. -- We call for European guidelines to be complied with, and for Feder funds to be used to promote mountain areas, not to harm them. We ask them, above all, not to enter into these funds for the profit of big companies, because there are some lots...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u244	Finish it, Mrs. Aira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u245	...they seem to have names and names.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u246	Thanks, you got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u247	And the question already has been asked by the counsellor. [[Applause]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, well, the truth is, if we agree on some basic principles, I'm sure we'll understand much better. The first, the first basic principle, is that we must comply with the law, we must comply with the law and the procedures. In this case, we must comply with the Public Procurement Act and also with European transport directives, which, as you said, cannot be excused. They're no excuses, and they can't be given in any case, as you said, finger contracts. The second is that, in the specific case of school transport, it is necessary to launch a competition to renew the service. It can't be automatically renewed unless you ask us to commit an illegal offence. The third question, the third question where it is important for us to agree, is that the defence of rural areas is not the exclusive heritage of any political party, of no political formation. All -- or at least the training I belong to -- we have the same interest that, for example, their political training in supporting and providing services to people living in rural areas. We won't have any more but we won't have less interest than their political formation. The fourth is that Galicia has the most significant network of services and educational facilities in rural areas -- they don't have the slightest doubt -- of the Spanish set, in the number of educational centres, in its geographic distribution, where we have 25% of the cost of school transport in the Spanish set with 6% of the student. Ultimately -- and it's the most important -- the results of rural education centers don't differ from any urban. It has to be like this. For example, in this school, in this public center, there are 33 students and there are 14 teachers. That's an example of the rural education effort. And fifthly, the responsibility of this board is to bid for a school transport system that gives students a solution, which gives children and children who have to go to the educational center. In this context, and with these basic principles, we bid a very powerful, very large contract. Data: 1,574 routes, 424 educational centres, 57 lots for the competition itself. How did it go? It was obviously done in line with the basic principles set out in the law, seeking to optimize resources, giving priority to the companies in the environment and making it possible to participate and compete also taxi drivers, also autonomous in UTE and subcontracting up to 20% of the vehicles. And you know very well what the current situation is. The current situation is that, after a round of contacts, the Motu councillor himself, on January 11, he proposed suspending the deadline for the submission of tenders. For what? To study, analyze and resolve claims. We are aware that there are deficiencies, that there is some mistake, that some stops may be missing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u249	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u250	...that there may be some impossibility of movement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u251	Thank you, thank you, you have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u252	But, in any case, these questions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u253	Thank you. Counselor, you have another shift later. That's it. Thank you, thank you. [[The Counselor utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Aira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u254	Mr. President, I ask you to listen to me for a second. If you can, give me the same margin as the counselor, because I have a lot of difficulty breathing with the mask on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u255	Sorry, sorry, I didn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u256	Let me, if you can, the same time margin too, because it costs me a lot to talk to the mask and breathe at the same time. I don't know how to live any other way than to do both. [[Applause]] Look, I thank the counselor for telling me something I can't believe anymore, because it's not credible. The council did paralyze its own motu deadlines, but by the instance of a court -- or Tacgal -- because in this court there were complaints filed by companies that felt affected, as well as associations and unions. This was not made by a question about the quality of life of the children and children of the Courel, but by matters of a competitive nature; with which, that first thing I don't believe the same is because I can't believe it, because it's incredible. Well, part two, if the good management and compliance of the regulations are meant to prejudge the life of the children and children of the Courel, we have bad regulation, it seems to me. And that your advice only deals with yours seems even worse, because education is for the population. [[Applause]] And the Courel well deserves that interest from his advice as well. And on the other hand, I'm going to tell you that the children and children of the Courel spend 15 whole days -- 24 hours -- by course put on a bus, according to their tender; that if we extend it over four years, two months, two months!, in which they lose to play, those who lose to live, those who lose to be with the families, those who go in danger on those roads of the Courel with extremely adverse climate. If that's not your advice, then, look, I think you might have to change counseling, because I think this is no way to defend the rights of childhood. And I think they deserve it. To finish, I ask you to remake the lots, because it's a unanimous cry, and to commit to Caarel, to the mountain areas, to the people who live in them, and that every day they overcome the difficulties that they are supposed to live there and that they still choose to stay there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u257	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aira. Close this question by the Culture, Education and University Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I told you, the process has been paralysed, not by a warrant from any court, Your Honor, you cannot lie at parliamentary headquarters. He stopped to study, stopped to study a series of allegations, a number of questions, identify deficiencies, identify errors... [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u259	Mrs. Aira, Mrs. Aira, please...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u260	...and from then on to consider the corrections to be made. I think childish arguments and easy demagogy don't help anything, it doesn't help anything. Look, what you can be sure of, Your Honor, is that once the allegations are examined, the tendering process will be resumed and the special conditions and circumstances in some areas will undoubtedly be taken into account; but, of course, by always complying with the laws and without distorting the basic principles of public procurement. Because if I don't, Your Honor, you sent me to jail if I do. You'll understand you don't want to. Anyway, look, we already told you this isn't a contract that's closed, not much less. I can't agree with what you're thinking here. Because, look, it makes you feel like we're trying to harm someone. No, no one, we don't want to harm anyone. We want to comply with the law and comply with basic recruitment standards. Do we need to comply with the law? Everything, all need! Do we have in our heart to find a solution and correct technical deficiencies? Absolutely! Now, we cannot assume your speech, which is full of common and unfounded places and criticisms. At no time or we'll assume!, in no case! You raise respect and support for rural life. Of course, we too, absolutely! In any case, Your Honor, we must be aware that the Courel families, that the Courel children, the Courel people, are looking at us. Some of them, possibly, read us tomorrow on social media or read us on newspapers. And, look, I'm sure you'd like me to cut any kind of hope or any sort of possibility of correcting the technical deficiencies of this nail, I'm absolutely sure, because I'd give it a break to follow your child's speech. But, look, you're going to be wrong, you're going to be wrong absolutely. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're in an evaluation process, we're designing solutions and we're looking for solutions that always, always -- respecting the law -- generate the lowest possible prejudice for the children and families of the Courel. [[Strong murmurers.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u261	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Ovidio Rodero Tato and six other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the virtual education plan to shield education in the event of partial or total confinement of a classroom or centre.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u262	Mr. Roder Tato has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, as you have already pointed out on many occasions in this House, the teaching of Greek has a comprehensive and detailed contingency program to help cope with the exceptional situation that is causing the pandemic. Through this instrument, the Galician Union shielded this course with an investment of 162 million euros to meet the various needs of the educational community as a whole. This course planning work and the investment momentum of the Galician Union aims to ensure health security in educational centres and to support and accompany the effort that, since the educational community as a whole, is being made to take this course forward in a situation, as I said, so exceptional. The budget focuses on strengthening 2,300 teachers, providing technological resources, strengthening security and hygiene measures in the centres and supporting complementary education services. In view of the probability that quarantines of classrooms, complete schools, or even a general confinement of the population -- as in the past month of March -- need to be anticipated and planned for the engineering of the education system to adapt it to this type of circumstances. For this anticipation it was very useful the experience we've had in Galicia for a few years by betting on new technologies applied to teaching. That's how the data from the existing digital classes certify it. From zero classes in 2009 to 6,000 digital classes in 2020, with 120,000 beneficiaries and 900 centres involved. Through the E-Dixgal Program today, 34,000 students work with the digital book in 470 educational centres; the implementation of the Avalar Program, which, despite the criticisms of some parties at the time, is being greatly influenced by families; the digital strategy has therefore encouraged the centres to become familiar with digital contours, and it has been very useful to continue to work on the contents of each course in the past confinement. But in the face of the current pandemic situation, it is necessary to regulate, structure and organize the educational system to improve the distance education benefits in the hypothetical case of partial or total confinement of the school population. In this line, the Galician Union developed the Virtual Education Plan, with the aim of having protocoled the educational system in case it had been required to move from face-to-face to distance education; a virtual plan that had already received criticism from some opposition party, which, at the same time as censoring semi-precessionality in education, called for a general confinement of the entire population. To find out more about the planning and protocols agreed on by the Education Committee, we would like to ask you, Counsellor, that you owe us a little bit more to the extent that this Virtual Education Plan is set in motion by the Galician Council. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u264	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, I believe that everyone knows that for about eleven months now we are absolutely in a pandemic crisis, an unprecedented health crisis, which has affected virtually everything, which has affected society as a whole and, of course, also in the education system and learning processes linked to it. The last trimester of the past course had to face an absolutely new situation, with many problems and many lights and many shadows. It was gradually, looking for solutions and providing them, and Galicia had a behavior, at the end of the past course, if we compare it to other autonomous communities, relatively positive thanks to the strong presence in the Greek education system, the digital book and digital teaching. At the beginning of the course we lived a very clear and very determined bet for promoting the presence of the education system. I think it was a very significant bet. In Galicia, except FP, presence is total in non-university education. We are of the few autonomous communities that we have done; in some of the others there is even semi-presitivity from the second of the ESO, which is really a very complex situation, and we have made a bet on the presence with measures of strong economic impact, of strong organizational impact. Let's think about the reinforcement of the templates, the biggest that ever happened in the history of this country. And really the first trimester, like everything we're going to develop, has been done with a relative normality within the enormous exceptionality in which we're put. Obviously, it was necessary to plan, it was necessary to work urgently to, in the hypothetical case, to carry out a general confinement or a closing of classes for reasons related to the pandemic, to be prepared and to take preventive action. That's why the Virtual Education Plan has been promoted, which has been carried out jointly within the Educational Committee and also with the work and contacts of the Autonomous Board of Directors. We basically work to have a tool that, if necessary, will be implemented in a preventive way. Training actions have been initiated for the teacher, a system has been put in place to distribute, in the people who needed it, precise equipment and technological supplies and, above all, affixed, by organisational measures, one of the most significant is the elaboration of the so-called mirror schedules, which, from the organizational perspective, made it possible to be prepared and that there were some routines; that is, to move to the virtual world the educational routines that exist in the present world. Ultimately, the goal was to be prepared, in advance, with planning and, fortunately, it didn't take. Let's wait...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u266	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. [[Mr. Culture, Education and University Counsellor, Rodríguez González, utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. To the replica, Mr. Roder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, we understand that one of the most important pillars of the Virtual Education Plan also has to do with the training of teachers in digital skills, so that a new process of teaching and learning can be achieved in a virtual way with all guarantees. Also another essential piar is the provision between the educational community of computer equipment, as I was saying, necessary to provide coverage for all this technological deployment. This situation requires an extraordinary effort to meet the needs of the system as a whole, also the various family realities, and to take account of the situations of families with limited resources. We have also talked about the complex process of adaptation by the centers to the new reality of the shelter, protocoling classes, schedules, evaluation and follow-up in distance mode; a laborious task that I have put into an exemplary effort by the entire educational community and that from this parliamentary group we also want to put into value. For all that and to finish, Counsellor, we would like you to explain to us what situation the educational centres are in within the framework of the Virtual Education Plan, and the centres are provided with the tools necessary to ensure the development of education in the event of partial or total confinement of a classroom or a centre. For my part, nothing else, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u268	Thank you, Mr. Roder. To close the question, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I said, this plan has a preventive vocation to prevent the pandemic crisis from occurring in an educational crisis. Obviously, for the plan that has been put in place it is necessary to have a follow-up and it is necessary to have an assessment of how it was. At the beginning of this year, we did an audit, we did an assessment of the current situation of the plan to see if we were really prepared, if necessary, in an undesirable hypothetical case, for a non-presental teaching. Fortunately -- and without any triumphalism -- I think the educational centers had a very good answer. In 100 percent of the centers there were virtual classes developed; a very small number didn't have them. A hundred percent of the centers had their mirror schedules worked out. There was a connection in those classrooms that were in a quarantine situation, during this very important time. In the first quarter there were 7.5 million connections to virtual classes, a contingency system was put in place to provide equipment and technological supplies for those families who needed it and fortunately responded to all the precisions without any problem. By the way, some countries, even today, are beginning to facilitate and promote the contribution of technology to families. There has been a lot of training, a lot of training for teachers; a huge effort of teacher training centres and teachers themselves: 1,700 training actions, and 30,231 teachers in the training process, of which 22,175 are already accredited. Without a doubt, this virtual teaching plan has been well-planned, well-developed and, when it has done and needs, it is giving a very successful answer; obviously, not perfect but tremendously achieved. Very recently we had to move from the special regime to the non-present form of education centres: conservatories and official language schools mainly. Approximately 30,000 students, and the experience of the application of the Virtual Education Plan, of everything that means mirror times, equipment, etc., are making me think with a much more than acceptable note. Obviously, it is not perfect, but tremendously acceptable, and with very good response from the users of this service, which allows them to be reasonably functioning well within an absolutely exceptional situation. Finally, educational centers have done a great job to adapt the Virtual Education Plan to their needs; when you played -- and you're playing -- you're applying it to special regime centers is working well and really the prevention and planning work before is giving results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u270	Thank you, Counselor. Accumulation of two questions for their joint formulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u271	We are now debating two questions in a cumulative way, one is Mr. Rivas Cruz and another is Mr. Pablo Aranguena. Question by D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the supposedly irregular vaccination against the Covid-19 of the mayor of Boimorto in the residence of major of that municipality Question by Mr Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Mr Julio Torrado Quintela, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the German Government in relation to information on alleged irregularities in the process of vaccination against coward 19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u272	Mr Rivas Cruz of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group begins by asking the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u273	They're not accumulated, Mr. President. On the agenda they do not appear accumulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u274	Yeah, yeah, they're piled up. They're piled up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u275	Yeah? All right. Thank you. The red roar was in people's mouths, although there was no evidence, but, as no matter of night is done that one doesn't know of day, the matter jumped to the press and the mayor of Boimorto, vaccinated. And the social alarm, the debate and indignation have jumped out the street. The first statements you make to the press are disturbing to the population: "I am vaccinated because I am a resident's staff. I was on the board list and didn't want to vaccinate. They told me that if they didn't put it on me, they'd have to throw it away. I have a working relationship, because I go around there every day." There were a few days when President Fexóo, in the face of the first cases of irregular vaccinations, categorically stated that all politicians who received the drug outside the protocols should resign. And if, in statements to the gallery, to get rid of the scandal and be well, the People's Party had advised the resignation of the mayor, and spoke of a file and possible expulsion, but this one would resist. And they came out, the usual one of the PP: she called for the fall in the party, but following the mayor; and no more fleas, they shook themselves with a blow. The municipal group of the Boimorto PP didn't know what to do, there was division of opinions: all of them to the Joint Group, or we stay in the PP and we support the mayor, now not affixed, who is what the book advises, the party's manual in similar cases. But in these days, Domus Vi's deputy advisor is going to be vaccinated. Now it wasn't a mayor of a small council of deep Galicia, it wasn't; it was now about weight relationships, money relationships, those that keep box B, addicted companies -- and I say well, addicted -- to the People's Party. And then he went out like a lightningman and put order and concert in this remix: now the new shift of course, the mayor of Boimorto also entered the lot to protect. But today, this morning, he changed his mind again in response to the opposition, so, hot, suddenly, and he left us alone. Of course, a president of a party who's been following these trots doesn't have to feel ashamed or hold a firm ethical stance; it depends on where the air comes from. At all this, Mr. Counselor, for his office, he's been Sergas's chief of staff, isn't he? You vaccinated? Don't be exquisite, you have to clean up when it's airy. That's the preferred saying of people addicted to PP in deep Galicia. And for home service workers, essential in a crowded population of old age and dependency, isn't there a dose left that's going to waste? And would the workers who have services in the residences and who go several times or sometimes once a week to comb and fix those and the elders not be well enough to get on the list and be vaccinated as well?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u276	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Now you ask the question of Pablo Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u277	Counsellor, we put this question to the thread of the irregular vaccinations that took place in Pontevedra, that Mr. Feijóo said it was 20, but the unions said it was 200, and of the allegedly irregular vaccinations of Burella also denounced by the unions. And also to the thread of the case of the mayor of Boimorto, who still hasn't resigned today. The only step you took was to open your file, which is as much as to say nothing, when Mr Feijóo said that politicians should not be the first to vaccinate, but the last, according to protocol. And he also said that the decision responsible for irregular vaccination is to resign. Beautiful words, but when the mayor of Boimorto was irregularly vaccinated, you didn't do anything, and the mayor of Boimorto is still mayor. We then know the wrong vaccination of the delegated advisor to the DomusVi general empire, a lady who is also a friend of Mr Feijóo and other officials of the Galician PP. An undue vaccination for which Gonzalo Caballero asked twice is tomorrow to Mr. Feijóo and to whom he didn't answer because he doesn't like to talk about his friend or Domus Vi. Whoever spoke on the subject was his spokesman in this Parliament, who supported Mrs Fernández's version and said his vaccination was correct, because in Galicia he immunized all directors of residences and because his contact with the users of the centres is permanent, according to the company. I have to say that this answer varies between manipulation and falsehood. Mrs. Fernández is not a director of residence, but the highest directive of a hierarchical empire in which there were 2,600 deceased in this pandemic, besides the millionaire shareholder of that empire, by the way, created and expanded under the umbrellas of the Galician Union. So it's not, as the PP says, a director of residence, nor an assistant or administrative staff who should be vaccinated according to the protocol. It is also completely false that your contact with the users of the centres is permanent, as the company says and you accept. In fact, it is neither permanent nor sporadic, as the statement that the Association of Galician Residential Workers issued a few days ago, in which they say it is not true that Mrs. Fernández has direct dealings with users, or with family members of users, or even with regular residences. And they also express their indignation and rejection for the favor treatment, skipping all the protocols. They also say that it seems rather that they used their position and influences to receive a vaccine, which is as much as making an accusation of prevarication and trafficking in influence in every rule. Counselor, you have something to say you have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u278	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u279	...a minimum of consistency in this respect?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u280	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Counsellor's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u281	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Aranguena and Mr Rivas, first of all, I would like to thank you for giving this grouping of answers, because, of course, the questions are very similar. As we were talking about this morning, at the beginning of the coronovirus vaccination we had a challenge that we had never faced with the Greek public health: vaccination as soon as possible of the most vulnerable people, those who suffered the pandemic the most, the users and workers of the oldest residences, with a vaccine of which even days before we received it we did not know, for example, their technical data sheet, with the logistical problems that I especially assumed regarding conservation and transfer. However, the Council had a complete plan and the staff and infrastructure needed to start this vaccination as soon as the doses of Pfizer arrived in Galicia on December 27. In this plan, several questions were raised, most of them ahead of this parliamentary headquarters at the Council's own request, by the Director General of Public Health, Dr Durán, last month and myself last week and also this very morning to obtain an appropriate organization of the process and the best and best traceability of vaccines. And it was available, as we said, from a specific team of primary care nurses to vaccinate, from equipment, both portable and mobile computers, so that you could do this vaccination, and from specific training. As I said before, the logistic challenge was also to reach the vaccination points and to manage as many vaccines as possible in each residence, with the lowest possible incidences. I want to remember that this is 566 residences. Together with the Social Policy Council, we established the system we were going to use to adjust and plan vaccination. Each point -- that's 566 I was commenting on before -- each residence -- then, for the second group, the health areas -- sent the Counsellor the list of users and workers to whom the vaccine was to be administered. I mean, every vaccination team has a list of people who will receive the vaccine on that day. And also, according to that list, the corresponding doses are forwarded from the central warehouse that we have prepared in Santiago de Compostela. Regarding this, I would like to comment on the pattern that marks the National Vaccination Strategy -- let me pass to the Spanish to read it literally. "As established in the Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy in Spain" -- refers to the document published or 2 December and updated or 18 -- "in the first stage, in which the number of vaccine doses will be limited, vaccination will be offered on a priority basis to persons included in the following population groups: Group I. Residents and health and socio-health personnel working in the homes of older persons and caring for large dependents." -- And then details: -- "Then a more detailed description of the individuals included in each of these population groups is included. Group I: residents and health and social and health workers working in residences of older persons and caring for large dependents; health and socio-health personnel in centres of older persons and of care to large dependents." - I'll stop here. --. "All persons working in these centres, including those performing other functions other than the provision of health services (administrative, cleaning, cooking, etc.).), are covered by this category. In addition, it also includes persons working in day-care centres linked to senior centres, i.e. with shared activities and staff. It is recommended that you be vaccinated in this first group of the first stage." From reading the Strategy, we conclude that the cases you refer to should be included in the vaccination lists, since, in addition, those people are responsible for preparing the lists. If, in fact, these people you're talking about are in the residences, they come to them regularly, I have to say that, in my opinion, they're well vaccinated, because the criterion for vaccination for this group is not the protection of users, it's not the protection of the person who is vaccinated, it's the protection of residents, the same way that has been vaccinated to all the residents' workers. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I think I remember that the first person who vaccinated in Galicia was Snow Cabo, in the residence of Road Door, and the second person was a cook in that residence. Why did the cook get vaccinated? Because he works in the residence and he enters the residence, because the goal is to protect residents by vaccinating those who enter the residence. So, I repeat, if these people enter the residence regulations, they're well vaccinated; if they don't regularly enter the residences, they're not well vaccinated. All right? [[Applause]] But, as I said, the underlying thing for us is that, despite the limitations on the arrival of the vaccine, these most vulnerable people who have suffered so much from the pandemic now count in most of them -- except for specific cases -- with the two doses of the vaccine. Today we have a total of 54,504 people with full vaccination pattern. That's the most important thing for us, and on that line we'll keep working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u282	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u283	They're, then, well vaccinated... And the mayor works in the residence? Go, go! Tell you what's going on. Is she a grower? What are you doing? Or, better said, what has to go in times of pandemic and risk? Aren't your control and management functions? Or is it going to something else? Is it on the residence chart? I'm telling you, no. Were you included in the list you left the residence for Sergas? I don't know. Look, the sad Mr. Counsellor, is that the visits of the lady mayor to the residence and the residences of her neighbours, taking errands, food or medicine from the pharmacy in the Town Hall's car, instead of sending workers or municipal workers, is part of the decimonic caciquism that you feed in an agony of the freedoms of all of us: "Nothing," "don't thank me," "you'll take it into account when it's appropriate." [[Murmurs.]] Because every time someone sells a favor as a favor, which is our right, it's violating our freedom. The dependency relationship has to do with accumulated fear and due silence, and they are not old age old age, no, they are realities of a country gripped by corruption: surpluses, continuous lies, vaccinations of privilege and fear... that's the big problem: fear! [[Applause]] And tell us: will they continue to enter Sergas' vaccination lists these staff heads, false generators, managers, you know, those, the usual ones, who make democracy fit well the time we're in? Tomorrow's Thursday, I think of comas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u284	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the reply, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u285	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u286	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u287	Counselor, either you and DomusVi lie or the residents workers lie. And even if it was true the lie that this lady has contact with the residents, she shouldn't have it, because she's not a resident's staff, but an entrepreneur who has his offices on García Barbon Avenue, 60, from Vigo, not in a residence. So you broke the protocol in a blatant way for the benefit of the business friend of the Galician PP. [[Applause]] And, Counselor, call me attention that you acted fulminously to cease a head of service at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, Vigo, in March, for asking for some masks -- and complain, of course-- and that is, however, so ineffective in explaining and investigating -- let's not say to investigate -- why a person was vaccinated from no point of view could be vaccinated and that casually directed a hierarchical empire close to Galician PP. My attention is drawn to the fact that the Galician Residential Workers' Association makes very serious accusations that fit perfectly into the field of prevarication and trafficking in influence, and you throw balloons out. [[Murmurs.]] But, Counselor, in any case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u288	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u289	...with the greatest respect, who would have to be answering here -- and there's the explanation, probably, of their ineffectiveness -- is Mr. Feijóo, who didn't reply to Gonzalo Caballero this morning, because you come here talking about a subject you can't know about because it's new in a government that's been privatizing up to maximum levels the Galician jeriatric system and delivering that system to friendly companies so unrecommenable as the DomusVi group, which is not by chance, but by causality is directed by a friend of Mr. Feijóo and other PP militants and who has on his ethical committee another prominent activist from the Galician People's Party, who is one of the only two... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u290	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena, your time is up. You don't have the word anymore. [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Replica. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena and Mr. Rivas. As I said, it's the Spanish Government's own strategy that defines which people should be included in the vaccination groups, and from then on we can question who should be included or not. I said it in the previous full: anyone who has to walk through a door where the passage is forbidden for being a hideous area has the right to vaccinate. It is moral obligation in the case of residences of older persons. And I'd like to have an impact on the work Galicia has done. The development of the listings has allowed us to plan and act in an orderly way, in addition to counting the reverse logistics, which has allowed us not to discard roads. And yes, in those lists there may be errors, of course, but what didn't happen in Galicia is that you vaccinated someone who was passing by. And yet, as I said, ethically it can be questionable, here nobody jumped the order randomly. You're asking me what she's going to do to Junta. Look, we'll keep working so we can vaccinate, as before, all the Greeks. Although it does not depend directly on the Union, we depend, of course, on the first term, on the Spanish Government and also on the European Union to receive the vaccines. We will continue to seek and claim the arrival of vaccines as soon as possible. And I want to show here two charts of the evolution of the situation in residences with vaccine and no vaccine. This is what happens to users over 65 who are in residences, this is the fall since we started vaccination, and this is what happens to those who are not in residences. [[Mr. Health Advisor, García Comesaña, shows a chart.]] Or a similar graph where we see income in residences, as they clearly fall from before the vaccine. [[Mr. Health Advisor, García Comesaña, shows another graph.]] This is important. We're not going to keep an eye on each other, dedicated to seeing who's going to be vaccinated and who's not. Surely some mayor, some conchler of some party, any party, may be vaccinated as well. [[Murmurs.]] We're going to keep insisting: for home help services, for lists coming from the municipalities, we're starting to vaccinate this week, and that's the important thing, vaccinate all the workers, vaccinate all the residents -- that's done -- and now we'll continue to vaccinate the home help staff. So that's what matters. We're making these changes in the incidence and contagion of residences, and that's why we're going to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u292	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Encarnación Amigo Díaz and eight other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, about the next steps planned regarding the actions announced at the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u293	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. If there is an infrastructure that in the last 20 years has been able to become a symbol of pride for the whole city of Santiago, for all neighbors, it is undoubtedly the Hospital Clínico, the CHUS, a symbol of pride especially for its human capital, for that health community that will become a reference year after year for the whole city. We cannot understand Santiago today without one of his fundamental characteristics, without one of its essences, such as this health community and, by extension, this hospital, which also does not close its functions within the administrative limits of the municipality, but serves or serves almost half a million Greeks and Greeks. This hospital is currently going through one of its most complicated moments, with important hospital pressure as a result of this third wave. We took advantage of the Popular Parliamentary Group to send a message of support to all these first-line health personnel who are saving lives; ultimately, risking their own. A framework of these dimensions must be constantly renovating, constantly adapting, for future challenges. The important expansion of the entire hospital complex was announced months ago. But the People's Parliamentary Group would like to ask you, Mr Counsellor, about specific investments, urgent investments, immediate investments which are, in addition, planned for this year 2021. We'd like to know the status of these investments. We'd also like to know -- more important -- the valuation you make of them. We're talking about pharmacy reform, emergency reform, the pending ICU reform, the new stroke area or the new technologies that have been incorporated, and from which we could see the announcement these days, for example, for the treatment of people with mobility problems or parkinson problems. Finally, Counsellor, would you be able to anticipate the situation of these investments and what is your assessment of them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u294	Thank you, Mr Verea. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u295	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Verea, the Santiago de Compostela Hospital is a reference center for a total of 450,000 people, so we have committed from the Government various actions to carry out it. In particular, as you said in the 2021 budget, we have included a EUR 10 million start for different compromised reforms, such as the reform and equipment of the stroke unit, the pharmacy, the incorporation of a new neurological treatment system for parkinson patients and the reform of the ICU. We started our investments last year with the expansion of the Emergency Service and an budget of 1.6 million euros. It allowed you to create a new space with 40 more observation beds, in addition to creating differentiated circuits for cod and non-cod patients. This work was executed with great diligence and allowed us to count on new facilities, as well as to have improved the organization of the service towards this third wave. This year, the procedure for the pharmacy reform is already under way, and five companies have already been offered. The budget for this action amounts to EUR 1.5 million and has a run-in period of four months, which must be added to the service's equipment budget, which will amount to EUR 1.5 million more to make a total of EUR 3 million in the pharmacy of Santiago Clinical Hospital. The works will consist of the creation of new storage spaces, wardrobes, rooms for the production of medicines and gene therapy and facilities for pharmacotechnics. In addition, a robot for preparation of intravenous mixtures and another for outpatient dispensation is included in that equipment supply, as well as an automated carousel-format warehouse. This performance also aims to improve the use of work, reflecting on the improvement of the conditions of professionals in this service and, of course, also in patient care. As you know, we also advance in the creation of an stroke unit. From the Council, we consider it essential to carry out this action, since the stroke is a pathology of wide incidence in our autonomous community. In Santiago, in particular, more than 720 patients entered the CHUS Neurology Service last year with the diagnosis of stroke. The stroke carries an important hospital pressure, so any improvement and the creation of this concrete unit will have a very positive impact on the care of the patients and also on the benefit of the workers of the service. As far as this is concerned, we have already helped the work, and we hope to begin immediately its execution, but not before the current pressure situation in the center dwindles. In addition, the process of adjudication of the various batch of equipment of the unit is already under way, to which 18 companies have been presented. The total investment of the work together with the equipment amounts to EUR 576,000. This new unit will create a specific room for these patients consisting of six beds and a nursing control, which will allow visual access to patients and monitoring their beds, so it will be an important improvement for people who are treated with stroke in the clinic and also for professionals, who will count on the best facilities and equipment. One of the most important issues in the field of investments in the CHUS and which will allow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u296	Counselor, you have another shift later. Thank you. For the reply, Mr. Borja Verea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u297	Thank you, Counselor. Very briefly. Thank you for explaining these investments very often. We would like it from the People's Parliamentary Group, if it could be, that the investments in the reform of the ICU area would be realized; an area that in recent weeks is generating uncertainty, is causing concern, in addition to especially among health workers; uncertainty and concern that it is also translating in some cases into mobilizations and some discomfort. So we'd like to know what the current state would be, what the situation of this investment, which is urgent, and what the valuation that Mr. Counsellor makes of it, too. And taking advantage of the fact that you're here, if you have also got minutes, even if you weren't on the registered question, if you could, we'd also like to make an update on the situation of that enlargement of the CHUS hospital. Other cities are already starting these expansion projects. I would also like this People's Parliamentary Group to know the situation of this future enlargement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u298	Thank you, Mr Verea. To close this question, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u299	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. I'll answer your question directly. The pending and long-awaited UCI works were auctioned, precisely today, and published in the Profile of the Alliance Contractor of Galicia so that in a few months we could start its execution. The reform, with an budget of 1.2 million euros, will create individualised boxes, improving patient hospitalization and also the conditions in which the professionals of this service perform their work. We believe that all these actions, the reform of the pharmacy service, the establishment of the Ictus Unit, the implementation of HICU and the reforms in the ICU, in addition to the already completed reform and expansion of emergencies, note the commitment of the Galician Union to the University Clinic Hospital of Santiago and, no doubt, are an example of the effort and investment that the Government of Greece is making in most of the Greek hospitals. In addition, as you asked, it is also planned that the basic project for the expansion of the Clinical Hospital, which had to be reformulated, should be defined by having carried out and planned this situation of which we were talking and converted the Clinic into a centre of the future adapted to the new and growing needs of the area. With an expected budget of EUR 50 million, new hospitalisation plants will be created, which will continue with current emergencies, and a new pediatric emergency zone will be located, leaving space available for future enlargements. And also, in the new space that leaves the current pediatric emergency, a new adult emergency space will be created. Even so, it'll have new surgeries, a wake-up area, a new area of digestive, urological and pneumological endoscopy, and it'll have six new hospital units, five multi-purpose and one hematological. In the second block of external consultations, with five plants and constructed the continuity of the current, plastic surgery, maxillofacial, pain unit, preoperative, pneumology and allergy will be held. This building will also host a new day-to-day hospital and other support, as well as staff day-to-day day care. In short, the next few months will be an important challenge for the hospital that will bring about an improvement in the attention of the citizens of Santiago and its area of influence. I want to finish with what I wanted to complete with before -- and I still have time -- with the incorporation of this technology to turn Santiago Hospital into a pioneer center. In this case it will be the first public center in Spain to count on HICU technology; a high-frequency and ultrasound system for neurological processes, besides being one of the first in Europe. A total amount of 2.4 million euros will complement Santiago, which is already a national reference centre for patients with movement disorder, and this technique will be expanded -- which, as I said, is a high-intensity ultrasound system and which allows for action in those cases where treatment for parkinson or essential earthquake does not yield results -- up to 50% of them, allowing an improvement in 80% of cases. Finally, as I said, it's an important bet for Santiago's Clinical Hospital, which puts it, on the other hand, where it deserves. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-10-DSPG024.u300	Thank you, Counselor. Finish the full here. Good afternoon.
