ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting with questions for the President's reply. Before I have to comment -- it has been accepted by the Bureau now -- that it justifies its inattentiveness, in accordance with Rule 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure and delegate its vote to this session by Mr Daniel Pérez López, and delegate the vote to Mrs Ana Pontón Mondelo. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that I got Daniel Pérez López, it's a mistake. All right, we're on the march, Daniel Castro. Well, the Presidency authorizes this. Daniel Castro López. We then begin with the question in this case of Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Union of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, about the forecasts of the President of the Union to encourage the economic reactivation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. "The board refuses to maintain the reinforcement of teaching hired for the pandemic. Galicia, per capita social expenditure queue according to the DEC 2020 index", or report two directors and managers of social services. Hundreds of people claim more staff and means for senior residences in Santiago. "Health alerts that presence appointments in primary school will not return to pre-pandamy level and calculates that it will take two years to highlight the waiting lists." He closed 600 hospital beds this summer with the pandemic in more complex situations. And like this, citizens know that today in Galicia to meet a primary care appointment have to wait, sometimes, until 15 days. Lists of waiting in primary care, the never seen in Galicia, which today has to wait 18 days longer than average according to the official data of the council in order to be able to enter surgery or eight days more for attention by a specialist. It's time, Mr. Feijóo, to bet on public services and on Galician reactivation. And over the past nine months, there has been a Commission on Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation in Galicia that you've been following. You, Mr Feijóo, did not attend the reactive commission, even yesterday you were not worthy to come to this Parliament to vote on the dictates of the reactive committee, and the destinations of the consensus fund. That EUR 115 million consensus fund to which you didn't give any destination until July; for six months this year, there were EUR 115 million stored in the Galician board accounts, in your mattress, Mr Feijóo. While the Greeks and the Greeks couldn't take a look at so many complex circumstances in the third wave of the pandemic, the Galician Union kept the money and didn't make it available to the citizenry or to the municipalities. And yesterday you missed that saying, it wasn't when you voted or discussed the resolutions of that reactivation committee. That is why, when we see that the Government of the United States lacks industrial policy, there is no important measure to boost our country's industry and for you, who have industrial competences, to solve the problems in the Navy, in Ferrolterra, in the Death Coast, in the naval, that when you have competences in economic policy, you don't know what to do with European funds and we're going on course. That there is no impulse for employment policy, which rejects the Youth Employment Plan, which we have proposed with ten million euros to give them more than 3,000 young men and young women in Greece this year. The money on Mr. Feijóo's mattress, the money on the Galician board, and the moneyless galleys when she received it this year over 1,100 million euros extraordinary. We hold your hand, Mr Feijóo, and we are disappointed that, in spite of the will of consensus and agreement that we show to be able to jump together in the face of the greatest crisis, the People's Party opts for unilateralism and that, today, you would prefer to come to this Parliament only at the control session, but not yesterday to agree, to wake up and encourage Galicia's reactivation. We can't lose six more months. The Government of Galicia can't leave the Greeks and the Greeks orphaned. They can't turn their backs on so many citizens who have so much difficulty. They recognize that they are incapable of making an economic policy to protect people. They admit they don't know what to do with so much money they've reached the Galician Union. They recognize that they lost six months without putting the funds in the reactivation, or in the hands of the Greeks and the Greeks. And they recognize that raising funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u3	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u4	...in the Galician Union, at the moment of the greatest economic, social and industrial crisis in our country in a pandemic situation, it is a failure for the Greeks and the Greeks who need those funds. And that's why we hold his hand again to reach agreements, to rebuild Galicia, it's not his responsibility to lose a historic opportunity, and they're going to look for country agreements to move forward to such a complex situation, we have an alternative project to the People's Party, but we have a responsibility to know that, in the face of the PP's inaction, which in the face of the lack of commitment to public services, it's necessary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u5	Finish, please, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u6	...reorient these policies and seek a line of action that protects the Greeks and the Greeks. And we say it because we think of a situation so complex that there can still be many curves over the next few quarters. And we want the Government of Galicia to succeed, because Galicia needs the best for the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u7	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, Mr. Caballero, you do not want to accept the reality of the facts at parliamentary level. Galicia is the autonomous community with more teachers by students from Spain. Galicia was congratulated by the Government of Spain for the management of the pandemic. And the oldest residences in Galicia were of the social systems with the lowest mortality in Spain. That's the reality of the facts. Your Honor, you didn't ask my audience to dictate, and that's why I didn't go, the BNG or the Socialist Party. I'm surprised he accused us of not spending the money, that we wanted it to be consensual. If we spend our funds before consensus, we'd be criticized by cynics, and you're using a cynical approach here to saying that we don't spend the funds we wanted to make up for you. Mr. Knight, the Socialist Party voted in favour of the five headings of a transaction with the People's Party and abstained from the rest of the headings of the document. And when they get to the final vote, they vote against it. To this kind of Pharisaic approach we are used to. Your Honor, coming here to the House and saying that we have a lot of money and we don't spend it is another pure pharisaism; 828 million euros has stopped transferring the Government of Spain to Galicia for ideological reasons and for party reasons, 828 million euros that corresponded to us at least according to the criteria of the adjusted population, which are the only criteria that are relevant, but you keep suggesting that I have to copy your model. What's your model? This week he made a year of the autonomous elections, his model was the last, the worst vote in the polls, and you ask me not only to renounce the model that was approved in the polls, but also to copy a non-existent model. A model where Galicia has less and for its partners, Catalonia and other autonomous communities, the money it corresponds to Galicia goes there. But, Your Honor, exactly what is your proposal? We don't know her. Of all those funds that you say arrive in Galicia, do you know how many they paid? EUR 31 million. These thousand and so many million -- another falsehood -- you pay 31 million euros and say we haven't executed the budget yet. It's, at least, surprising, Your Honor. Yesterday it became clear that we are the Public Administration of Galicia that best executes the budget. Your Honor, we have been the autonomous community in this pandemic that better paid the suppliers, in half time than in Spain. We reactivate our economy with a restructuring of our budget of EUR 3,000 million. We have passed three rescue plans and we have funded public health decisions with more than 500 million euros. Your Honor, we have established a Clinical Committee that continues to work and continues to protect the pandemic with professional, health and medical criteria. We have made an Economic Committee which has implemented the Next Generation projects and which are presented to the Central Government, we have promoted social dialogue, we have made this consensus fund to try to get you to join the economic reactivation. It's the first time in 40 years that a Government with an absolute majority proposes the opposition to consent to a expenditure of 115 million euros. They don't even agree with each other. But let's keep working, Your Honor; but don't ask me, please, to use the model that was rejected in the polls, the model of the Socialist Party of Galicia. Please ask me to buy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u10	...the dictates of Parliament and I accept. Ask me to keep working for Galicia and I will go on; what I can't, in any case, is to raise absolutely cynical and hypocritical questions, coming here saying you have your hand and since I am president you haven't held your hand for a minute. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u11	Thank you very much, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u12	Perplexing, I am puzzled by the level of argument of the president of the Galician Union. We are told by the President of the Galician Council that he does not come to Parliament to vote on the reactive committee or to be in debate because we do not call him; he has no legislative obligations, if he is not called, he does not come. The most important debate for reactivation and absence, the vote of the opinion that, according to him, gives such a solution and does not come. And what did the president of Galicia say to us? Don't worry; I, like Rita Barberá, like Camps, like Cifuentes, like Aguirre, like Ayuso, I win the elections and therefore can reduce 600 beds in hospitals, I can start the academic course by firing the teachers, I can cut the social services in Galicia, I can do whatever I want because for that I won the elections, by the way, with a voting level of 48% of the Greeks entitled to vote. Be respectful, Mr. Feijóo, with the reality of the country, don't turn your back on the Greeks and the Greeks who are so worried and don't try to tell them that, when you ask the chief care doctor for an appointment, and tell them that he has to be telephoned for ten days later, you will answer them: don't worry, that I have the greatest absolute, that if you have to wait for the waiting lists, they've voted for me. Don't tell us that, Mr. Feijóo; the policy is to respond to the citizens' problems, it is not to see in the People's Party mirror and say: what great results we have, because they have already had many other PP representatives in many places and time passes for everyone, Mr. Feijóo. And I mean with respect, of course, to a majority of the People's Party, but we tell him to put his funds in the hands of the Greeks and the Greeks, to put his hands in the background of the Town Councils, that he does not turn his back on the Councils of Galicia that were at first level responding to the pandemic next to the citizens. I know you don't like the Galician municipality, I know that you refuse the councils of Galicia, and I'm not surprised, because the last operation they've done in municipal politics was to return to the City Government of Ourense, because they said there was no hint of corruption, and the court just said yesterday that there are signs of misrepresentation, of crimes, and you are in that Government, explain your municipalism, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] The reality of the country is that you lost six months, that in these six months you haven't put in that amount of funds that are in the joint, more than 1,100 million euros extraordinary, which are distributed according to objective criteria, but you, who are the king of cynicism and pharisaism, you who are able to say that you have to remove the masks and then remove yourself and stand on the table protesting when you have to remove them. You said last October that the vaccines would not reach Galicia until the second quarter of 2021. You, Mr. Feijóo, we know that you are a master of this cynicism since the policies of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u14	And we want to tell you that the Greeks and the Greeks need a government that reactivates the country, have spent six months this year without economic policy for reactivation, without solving the industrial problems of Galicia in Ferrolterra, in the Navy, on the Death Coast, on the naval, without you making the funds available to the municipalities and to citizenship, without strengthening public services and having the tendon hand of the PSdG, even if they refuse it, because what will come forward may still be very complex and it is necessary to remove Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u15	Finish, please, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u16	...forward. We are a loyal opposition, but we cannot bless or complicate this People's Party that throughout the year has failed in its politics and cynicism and in the pharisaism of a President of the Union who can say a, b or c...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u17	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u18	...or save the money while the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u19	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u20	...they're orphans...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight, your time is up. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u22	Surely time passes very quickly, Mr. Knight; you will see the speed of the passage of time. What is clear is that I am surprised that you consider the results of the polls to be a remissable result, simply because you have become the last force in Parliament. It's amazing that you come here talking about budget execution. We received from the Central Government 629 million euros and spent 90 million euros more. That's the summary of what we received. Why do we spend 90 million more? Because we dedicate 43% of the 170 million euros to health care and because we dedicate more than 160 million euros to education. And you're simply not running the budget, when it turns out, unfortunately, we haven't received the money transferred by the Government of Spain to manage the money. I don't know how much money. But did you really not understand that you are not the delegate of the Government? But don't you realize that when this autonomous community receives EUR 828 million more, can't the Socialist Party suck by saying they send us a lot of money when it turns out that they send us EUR 828 million less than ours? Your Honor, it is surprising that you still lead the Socialist Party. But I don't have, I can assure you, no interest in you to stop doing it; but, man!, a little common sense, if not, you make it very easy for your opponents, who, of course, are not in this parliamentary group. The economy has not been reactivated, and it turns out Galicia is the autonomous community where unemployment has been reduced most in the last 12 months. The economy has not been reactivated, and it turns out that in terms of gross domestic product, Galicia has been reduced by 2.9 % in the last 12 months, and Spain by 4.2%. The economy has not been reactivated, and we are at the head of the country's exports. We haven't reactivated the economy, and we're improving 35,000 Social Security members. The economy has not reactivated, and we are in every record of overcoming the pandemic economic crisis. And you come to tell me about the problems we have in the naval, the problem we have in the naval is the problem of Ferrol, which doesn't have the frigates when it started in 2018 and we're in 2021. The problem with the ship is that Sepi doesn't put a euro on the Greek shipyards. [[Murmurs.]] The Marine problem, as if it were Alcoa, is a responsibility of the Joint Government, and says yes, of course, it doesn't matter. At 80 euros the megavatio and it turns out that the problem of Alcoa is the Galician Union and not its incapacity for a competitive energy policy. But, Mr. Knight, where do you live? Where do you live? On the Coruña road, there in Madrid or lives here between people and people. Listening to the Socialist Party talk about the naval and talk about the Navy shines, that's perplexing. But, Your Honor, if the money they command can't even be executed. The rescue plans of the Galician Union were applied for 80,000 people, 93% of the applicants, an average of 4,150 euros, and the 200 million people who sent the rescue plan to the Government, are presented 4,000 because they cannot meet the requirements. We just extended the deadline until September, to see if anyone can meet them. And why can't the requirements be met? Because to collect a euro from the central government, you have to believe you have debts; that is, those who have paid your debts with their pocket, they have no right to help. It's a galloping cynicism. Gentlemen, I deeply regret that you want to help Galicia, when really what you want is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u24	...help yourself. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u25	Thank you, President. Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the President of the Union to ensure a future worthy of youth
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a crisis of enormous proportions that affects all of us, but especially young people. The coward came to aggravate a point of departure that was already bad because there are too many generations of young people in this country that you, Mr. Feijóo, offer them only unemployment, precariousness or emigration. And data is powerful and shows that young people have worse life expectancy than their parents and mothers and that they have to keep taking their bags, as their grandparents and grandparents did. The youth unemployment rate is 27.3% according to EPA's latest figure, do you know how much it is in Germany, Mr Feijóo? Six percent. Affiliation to Social Security at the age of 29 has fallen 41%. Only 30% of the youth has a job. 56.8% have a temporary contract and a wage that in many cases is up to 63% lower than Galicia's average salary. Therefore, emancipation is an impossible mission for most new people in this country, and that's why we have the second lowest emancipation rate in the whole Spanish state. Since 2009, 325,000 Welsh and Galicians have emigrated, 42% are under 35 years of age, and this is in a country that has a population crisis that gets worse every day. We're less and older. Among other reasons, Mr. Feijóo, because his policies expel the youth of this country. And today thousands of Greeks and Greeks develop their vital projects outside, form families outside and have children and daughters outside. Precautionary, unemployment and emigration are not problems for young people, they are country problems and they have, of course, to be solved, because we need the vitality of new people to have a Galician future. And that we're like we're responsible for your 30 years of the People's Party, but you, instead of putting yourself on the batteries to give youth a future, we're already seeing what you're doing in this pandemic: zero measures to protect your employment. Yes, he dedicated himself to criminalizing them during the pandemic, even trying to blame them for the infections, an attack that was without any basis, as demonstrated by the massive crows that were made at the time. Then you also use the shortcut you have as President of the Board to treat and even engage in a campaign against exactly the young people and girls who are reporting unemployment, precariousness and emigration. Mr. Feijóo, the youth of this country deserves much more than poor jobs that do not allow them to arrive at the end of the month, deserve decent working conditions, deserve to be able to be emancipated and allow them to carry out their life plan here, so I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, what are the proposals of your Government to give you a future worthy of the young people of Greece. Because it's obvious that we need the boys and girls to have Galicia's future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón, that you compare with Germany, I am very grateful that you like the policies of the German CDU, of the People's Party, it would be good for the BNG to note this fantastic intervention, near the day of the Galician homeland, that you have dedicated Patria Galega to recall the policies of Germany in the field of labour, in the field of taxation, in the field of public services. It's true that the BNG sometimes says very surprising things. Look, Your Honor, our first goal with young people is to be a free, undoctrinate young people. [[Murmurs.]] No, I understand that that indoctrination bothers you, but it's true. A free education system, open and unideolized, that's the target number one; the second is looking for employment opportunities, and the third objective, of course, is to establish policies and strategies for youth. Indeed, we have Spain's most equitable educational system. When you were in government, the school failure was 25.6%, now it's half. We have 55 more vocational training squares, with 85% employability in these squares. 13,000 students when you were in government had classes in German, Spanish and English, today they're over 100,000. In digital education, we are the first autonomous community in primary education. And, indeed, I reiterate again: the autonomous community with more teachers per student and the most accessible autonomous community in university studies; 200 million euros saved the Greek families so their children could go to university. And the only autonomous community, by the way, where urban transport is free, with over 300,000 boys under 21 years of age who can go from Vigo to the Crown or from any other county heading to a free university. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, youth is the future of Galicia, and that's why we're going to keep working on top of it. You're talking about unemployment, in the last year unemployment among children under 30 has dropped by 31.7%, twice as much as in Spain. In Spain or unemployment was reduced by 16%, in Galicia by 31.7%. But since we arrived in the Government, from 2009 until now, unemployment in children under 30 has reduced by 65%, and you talk about unemployment. He even comes here again with another fallacy, the fallacy in which you keep insisting, which is that of Galicia; Your Honor, but why lie in Parliament? Why do you take it and say that Galician people have been 300 and peaked, but don't you say they're 419,800? Why don't you say that the total population of Galicia from 2009 to 2020 has increased, between outputs and entries, with a positive balance of 72,000? And why is it that he hides the young man from Greece who, between 16 and 34 years of age, left Galicia 144,000 boys, but entered at that same age 160,000? Why don't you say that the positive balance between exits and entry into Galicia is 72,000 on the overall balance and 16,000 between 16 and 39?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u30	Why do you want this grim approach from our country? Look, it's a free education and it's not ideologicalized. More opportunities for employment and concrete youth plans. Look, Your Honor, to bet on ideology first of all, to indoctrinate the young Welshman and even intoxicate him with data that are false is inappropriate from a party that represents a percentage no less from the Greek population. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u32	Mr. Feijóo, I think who needs to learn from the German right is you and your party, not me. Among other things, because it's precisely that right hand that isolates the extreme right in Germany, while you're here dealing with racism, xenophobia, machismo and those that are against Galicia. [[Applause]] Perhaps, Mr. Feijóo, it would be nice for you to take note and look a little further at those who are better and not at those who are worse. Because we've been with you for a long time, every time there's a problem, looking to see if there's anyone who's worse, and it's just that it's impossible to move forward, Mr. Feijó. [[Applause]] And with the manipulation of the data and the reality that is terrible, I didn't ask you about the education system, nor about the university, I asked you why unemployment is going on in our country. And she's afraid to tell us that young people don't emigrate. But, Mr. Feijóo, don't you realize that emigration is a very fat problem, but that we have a president who minimizes that becomes a hecatomb for Galicia, because he's not going to put any action to solve it? But how can you come here and tell us that we have better unemployment rates, do you know why we have less unemployment in Galicia? [[Applause]] Not because young people have more jobs, because with emigration it lowers the unemployment rate and that explains the situation we have. [[Applause]] And it's a shame that the president of the Union comes here to use emigration to want to make up for the economic problem, the social problem and the demographic problem of the future which means that new people in this country continue to emigrate. Thousands of people come, tell us, don't they? Yet there are fewer people in Galicia every time. It's just that it doesn't hold up in any way. And what is less sustained, Mr Feijóo, is that you always come to this Parliament not to answer the questions, to ignore what the logic of the democratic debate is and to want to go through what it means to account for in this Parliament. We asked him about a very serious problem, which is unemployment. A few days ago you dedicated yourself to attacking young men and women in this country who denounced precisely the precariousness, and did so with the only thing you can offer them, which is with manipulation. We, of course, defend the hospitality sector; who doesn't defend it is you, who took nine months to put even a single euro in the midst of a crisis. [[Applause]] Whoever does not defend the youth of this country, Mr. Feijóo, is you, who is unable to put any positive proposals on the table; comes here with the bronca, with the manipulation of always. And the youth of this country deserves respect, and we put forward proposals on the table, we put in place a youth employment plan, because I don't know if you're aware, Mr. Feijóo, that 15,000 jobs have been lost among young people, and that only 2 out of every 10 kids have recovered that job. Let's put in place a youth employment plan that gives them a future and gives Galicia a future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u34	We bet on IMNOGAL as a policy of capture and retention of talent, we put in place housing policies. Finally, Mr. Feijóo, we will receive a lot of funding from the Next Generation. Use those funds so a new generation of Galicians and Greeks don't have to emigrate; of course, it'll be much better than putting them in the pockets of multinationals, which seems to be what you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u36	It is clear that Mrs. Pontón likes Germany's policies, too, we've agreed on something. Be careful with the German Constitution, because in the German Constitution, independent parties cannot be in Parliament. Be careful with the German federal model, Your Honor, because the Länder have an indisputable question, which is the defence of the unity of the German nation. It would be good, Your Honor, if you're celebrating it now, too, to make that pronouncement, it would be much easier to understand. [[Applause]] You're talking about people coming out of Galicia, but you don't look at people entering the country, and you forget that when they came out younger than Galicia it was when you were ruling. In 2007, 14,000; in 2008, 13,274. This obviously doesn't interest them. They don't want to say that youth unemployment dropped by 65% from 2009 to 2020; that is, when you were ruling, there was much more youth unemployment than now, that doesn't interest them. They're not interested just because you're not interested in the country. He's interested in that minority country you represent. But I'm interested in the country as a whole. Youth does not respond to the BNG, nor does it respond to the Socialist Party, nor does it respond to the Galician People's Party, youth is free to choose, it is free to form, it is free to have an opinion and it is free to vote. And when people in the polls are asked, young people, as Galicia sees, because it's one of the population's sectors that sees it with more optimism. Probably, Mrs. Pontón, it's because youth thinks for itself. When you drop 65% of unemployment from 2009 to 2021, 16 to 34 years of age, you think this is a failure. After reviewing the electoral program of the BNG in its youth bloc, I drew three conclusions: first, expel Ence from the Ría de Pontevedra; second, insubmission to Lonce; and third, Spanishization of the educational system. These are BNG's proposals to the youth of the country. Look, Your Honor, it's changing your mind; the country's youth is much smarter, much more freer and much more independent in the formation of your personality than you suggest. Youth has eyes on issues far broader than nationalism. We're certainly living very hard times to be young, and that's why we bet on college, vocational training and work and jobs. We live, Your Honor, in a complex situation for youth. That's why we're not going to manipulate her or lie to her. If the 2019-2020 migration balance is the best in the last twelve years, let's celebrate it. If you're excited to see the drop to half of your school failure, let's celebrate. If we increase 55% of FP squares, let's do it. Your Honor, I'm excited to see how last year Galicia has been the community that has reduced unemployment in under 30 years. It's exciting to see how this country is able to finance 100 percent of the buses in urban areas so that people can move across Galicia without paying. But I don't know why it's embarrassing to rule us where they're charged 100% of the price to young people and young people. 40,000 people just picked up the young meat, why? Because it's interesting, because they use it. Incentives of more than 3,000 euros for recruitment of boys and girls. Your Honor, the country's problem is birth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u38	We made a commission against the demographic problems of the country and BNG rose. We brought a law to Parliament, Spain's first law against the demographic challenge and BNG voted against it. We planted the first Youth Law in 2012 and BNG voted against. But, Mrs. Pontón, at least in this control session, we've got something in favor. BNG is in favour of German CDU policies. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u39	Thank you, President. We continue with the agenda; in this case, we have already turned to non-law proposals, point seventh. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the Government of Galicia to the central government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on the shipyards of Navantia, in the Ferrol River A self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia was introduced. [[G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Additional amendment must be added as a second point of the resolution: "2.-Instant to the Galician Union to which it requests all public administrations, especially the Government of Spain, the signing of a State Covenant by Ferrol which gives a joint response to the problems of the region, protects employment and industrial fabric and guarantees a future for Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, sets out the following amendment to this non-law proposal:Additional amendmentAdd the following text to the resolution:"Parliament urges Galician Union, in relation to the workload in Navantia Ferrol's River, to demand the Government of the State:1. The Galician Board of Directors, as referred to in the Galician Autonomy Statute and the Galician Naval Sector Promotion Act.2. The creation of a technology centre in the shipbuilding sector.3. The establishment of a working table in conjunction with the government of the State, and trade union federations with representation in the sector, for the development and implementation of a plan for diversification and recovery of activities in the centre of Navantia Ferrol River, including the following aspects:3.1 Impress a specific plan to recover civil shipbuilding in Fene.3.2 Ensure the direct participation of Navantia Ferrol River and the Turbina Factory in marine wind projects.3.3. Impulse a specific plan to introduce the turbine factory into the technology sector for the decarbonization of maritime mobility.3.4. Build new infrastructures for new work and repairs: workshops, tips, lifting elements, etc.4. Guarantees that the floating marine wind projects in which Navantia participates will be carried out in the center of Fene, maintaining Navantia's majority participation in UTE with Windar or any other company, and immediately paralyzing Navantia's management plan to transfer Fene's facilities to the private company Windar."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u40	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Ferrol's going through a dramatic situation, a dantesque situation, but curiously, he seems to care less about the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. In recent months, ferrolans have witnessed a labor sanctuaries living the auxiliary industry of the naval sector, hundreds of workers have lost their jobs over the past few months, naval auxiliaries, but also auxiliary to the thermal power plant of the bridges, invoking, exactly to the same situation, to their dismissal and to a frankly complex, frankly difficult horizon. A situation that has a direct responsibility -- directly not, directly -- in the Government of Spain, the Government of Spain that holds the public yards of the Ferrol River, and the Government of Spain that is responsible for the last decision that causes the closure of the thermal power stations in our country. Just go out the street to check the situation of economic, industrial and labor decline in Ferrolterra, a reality before which this group, the Popular Parliamentary Group, will not, of course, fall into the resignation, we will not be indifferent as some people intend in this House. And that's why we go back to this House and denounce the situation of abandonment in which the Central Government has the Navantia shipyard in the Ferrol River and, in general, the whole territory of Ferrolterra. A conscious abandonment, a deliberate abandonment to end one of Galicia's most important industrial lungs. It's true that the crisis in the region is not something new, it's a cyclical crisis that we've seen dragging from the 1980s, from the first conversions of the naval sector driven by socialist governments as well. We've been dragging economic problems, labour problems, demographic problems for years, but while since the Galician Government and the Galician People's Party are doing their best to deal with these problems, what we've found is that the Spanish Government is not involved in the search for solutions, rather the opposite. In just three years' term of office, Pedro Sánchez closed the thermal power station of the Bridges, a gold mine for the Eume region in economic terms. He stopped the investments in the yard, lost millionaire contracts with the United States Navy or Greece and left the Navantia shipyards unloaded from work in Ferrol. It paralyzed the F-110 frigate project ready to start in 2018, when we approved some budgets that contemplated the necessary games to start this project, a project that could start in the summer of 2018 and today, in the summer of 2021, there is nothing on the table, nothing on the F-110 frigates in the yard's sheet cutting workshops. This attack on the naval, this attack also on the thermal of the bridges is not isolated, it is an attack that also has repercussions with this attack on the electrointensive industry, which also affects the district of Ferrolterra, which also affects the port of Ferrol-San Cibrao. We are aware of the enormous difficulty involved in the recovery of a region as weakened as Ferrolterra's. From the German Government and from this group, we understand that this is a collective task and that is why we proposed, a few months ago, the establishment of a state pact so that all administrations would work hand in hand to find solutions to the complex situation of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal comarcas. And there was a process of dialogue, dialogue with the main economic and social agents present in the district of Ferrolterra, seeking to compromise all administrations in the activation of measures, with specific deadlines and budgets, directed at the recovery and industrial transformation of the three districts. During the first round of contacts, which took place last May, the Union held meetings with mayors of the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal, the Union maintained contacts with the main unions of the district, with business associations, with R+D+i agents, and the result of all these meetings is this document: "Ferrolterra State Pact; 100 measures directed to the recovery of Ferrolterra", 100 measures involving the Central Administration, the Autonomous Government, the Provincial Government and the municipalities of the three districts. That's the goal, we're all working together on a state pact that has a roadmap agreed with mayors, agreed with unions, agreed with economic agents. And reaching this document, this state pact has been sent to the Central Government, it has been sent to the Central Government nothing more to be approved by the Council of Galicia, after intense work, that we must also thank the contributions of all mayors. The truth and all we have to say about this is that, two months after sending this document to the Government of Spain, of sending a letter to the President of the Government of Spain, to Pedro Sánchez, two months after the President of the Union had met with Vice President Nadia Calvin, and that between the matters dealt with at that meeting had included that pact of State for Ferrolterra, two months after the Government's response is absolute silence. And I ask the parties that make up the opposition in this House and that I am Government in Spain, at least the Socialist Party, because the BNG does not know very well what the relationship it has, it is a relationship of love/hate, it depends on the day, I ask the PSdG PSOE is to tell us what happens, why does the Government of Spain not get involved in this state pact that contains fundamental measures to recover the territory of Ferrolterra? There can't be a state pact without a state. There can be no recovery from the district of Ferrolterra unless the Government of Spain is involved, which is the owner of the public shipyards of the Ferrol River, who can take measures that affect the energy sector so present in the district of Ferrolterra. We're not going to surrender, Junta has done an important job and Junta is going to go ahead with the state pact, it's going ahead with the commitments outlined in this state pact and agreed with the mayors of the county, agreed with the economic agents. But what about the Government of Spain? why doesn't the Government of Spain even answer? Is it such indifference? Does the PSdG PSOE feel so little at the national PSOE set? Does it give them exactly as in Ferrol if hundreds of unemployed workers, who depend on these public yards? At this initiative we asked for the construction of a bridge ship, a ship that would allow the shipyards of the Ferrol River to be loaded with immediate work. And why? Because the engineering work is done. And, therefore, that the steel comes and that the cutting of sheetwork and the work in the workshops begin. And that would give immediate occupation to the entire auxiliary industry of Ferrolterra. We've been asking for years, years in this House. And here's the PSdG PSOE when we asked for the bridge boat. What did you do? To vote against it, because he said it wasn't... he first said the Navy didn't need it, the reality is that months later the Navy ordered that boat, but not on Ferrol yards, but on the southern shipyards. That is the permanent betrayal of the Government of Spain to the Italian public naval sector and that is the betrayal of the PSdG-PSOE, which, instead of defending the interests of Galicia before its own party, shut up and become accomplices of that absolute abandonment. What do we ask for in our initiative? The immediate construction, the immediate commission of that bridge ship. Does the Spanish Navy need that boat? Yes, if you can do it in Ferrol immediately around summer? Yes, yes. The BNG has fallen into the trap of the transformation of the Galician ship, I suppose today it won't tell us about it, because it was a terrible ridiculous, which represents and exemplifies perfectly how little BNG paints and how little PSOE respects the BNG. The PSOE addresses the BNG to ask him for his vows not to rule the People's Party everywhere. BNG accepts, fortunately, an act of conciliator, for example, of Economic Promotion in the Bridges and then becomes an accomplice to everything the Socialist Party does. But in truth, the BNG paints nothing; the PSdG PSOE laughs at it, rules with it for arithmetic issues but does not paint anything. BNG is only useful for members of BNG, but BNG is not useful for Galicia and BNG is not useful for workers in the naval sector who have lost their jobs over the past few months, that is what we're talking about. In our self-amended initiative, we propose to address the Government of Spain to demand the construction of that bridge ship and we also propose to urge the Government of Spain again to join this pact of State for Ferrol...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u42	...there can be no state pact without the state. And what we ask the Government of Spain is as basic as it responds to the correspondence received. If President Feijóo addresses the President of the Government of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u43	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u44	...and he transfers the situation of Ferrol, and the president of the Government of Spain doesn't even answer, what can we think of the ferrolans?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u46	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u47	Mr Fernández Alfonso has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. Fernández, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u48	Good morning. I'm sorry, I was fired. Well, the Graña Marine Biology Station, in the Ferrol River, belonging to the University of Santiago de Compostela, sent an budget to the administrations to carry out a recompilatory study, a documentary study prior to the completion of the integral study for the Ferrol River. The completion of this recompilatory study was agreed at a meeting held between all the administrations with competence in the river, the three confrries of the river and the Marine Biology Station itself. The budget is 3.569.50 Euro, 3.569.50 Euro, and it was sent months and a half ago. The port authority has accepted its share, the board doesn't answer. Together is today -- you have to say it clearly -- the main trap for the regeneration of the Ferrol River. It is the main responsibility as the holder of the competences, solely and therefore the principal responsible for the situation of the fall in production, delays and obstacles so that their previous studies can even be started. But this abandonment, this lack of commitment to the regeneration of the Ferrol River is not an exception, it is the norm, because we can say the same about the bridge situation, zero euros in the board budgets for the reactivation of the Bridges. [[Applause]] And the same with the situation in Navantia, zero euros in the budgets from Junta to Navantia. The People's Party still yesterday dared here to wave the flag of biofuels to the thermal power station of the Bridges; it must be worth it. The people in the razor's thread, already with letters of dismissal in hand or about to arrive, already with letters of transfer, which are going to be effective immediately, and you're still as if nothing happened, just like a year and a half ago, and without compromising a weight. That's the truth, you can blame whoever you want, but you can't hide that you are the Government, the Government of Wales, and that this Government, our Government, not only commits not only a euro of your budgets to the energy transition, but it's been a year and a half selling smoke, and now when the crisis starts to have names and surnames, when the staff concerned claims from their Government meetings and solutions, the only thing they give is silence by answer. The Fascist Government doesn't exist for the Bridges. As for Ferrol's problems, they will be solved according to you with a BAM, the loss of a third of the population, a situation that has not occurred anywhere else in the Spanish state, the worst ratios and ageing of active population, of unemployment in all the cities of Greece, will be resolved -- according to the People's Party of Fascination -- with a BAM. Another flag of convenience, such as biofuels. There's been a very particular situation in Ferrol. When you talk to people in the naval sector: companies, staff, technicians, managers, directives, everyone has two things clear. The first: we wish we could make boats, then come the buts, it's true, the handicaps, we have very high fixed costs to compete in the civil market, we have no product for the current market, we can't compete with Asian manufacturers, we don't have facilities, and so on. Everyone's got something real nuanced. But the coincidence is unanimous. I wish we could make ships. Because there is no comparison in jobs at technological level, in the variety of activities that compete in the construction of a ship, in the wealth that it produces in the area. There is no comparison to any other activity, hence the economic, social and demographic decline of the region since the restrictions were imposed was sung. That's why any pacts or proposals for Ferrol that are reintroduced or that mean keeping restrictions are not receiptable, it's smoke, cheap rhetoric. Ferrol's reactivation goes through Navantia's reactivation, and a government that doesn't get involved with Navantia is a government that doesn't get involved with Ferrol. In Ferrol we have seen what the restrictions on production mean: structural crisis and demographic decline. The military construction is not enough to reactivate the comarca, and it is not enough, even, to maintain the financial health of the company. The military market is a captive market, very limited and very competitive, even more than the civilian, where the negotiating capacities and the political influence of the states are decisive. Where more and more buyers demand that it be made in their territory, and, if it were little, two new competitors in the international market, which are difficult to surpass: China and the United States, which are going to be made with Greece's contracts. The future of the naval sector in Ferrol necessarily goes through diversification and competition in all markets without restrictions; the opposite is to maintain the agony until, definitely, there is absolutely nothing left. And that's what they've been doing PP and PSOE since the 1980s. Mr. Tellado deliberately concealed in all his speeches that was a PP Government which constituted the present Navantia, for example, and that was a PP Government which drafted the current business plan. And the way to be competitive is another question -- the second one -- about which everyone in the sector coincides: there has to be a determined political bet, just like in the other countries of the world that have shipbuilding; always, in all cases, they have the support, one way or another, of governments, in all cases. It all begins with the recognition of the sector as a strategic sector to be promoted. In our case it must also be this way, we need a bet decided by the sector, by Navantia, a bet to improve infrastructure, by changing the aid framework at European Union level, above all a bet on technology and high value added products. That's why our concern to make the Joint Navantia-University Research Unit of the Coruña a permanent technology centre with stable funding. It's incredible that, at the end of the current convention this year, 2021, the future of the insured IMU is not yet. This gives an idea of the low degree of commitment of the Galician Union to the sector and innovation. And none of this appears or is mentioned in his Ferrol pact. The proposal for the naval sector is that the State hires a BAM, nothing that the Government of Greece is involved in Navantia, nothing to recover activities, nothing to promote a permanent technology centre for the sector. As for the energy transition, the same: nothing to be involved in an urgent solution for the personnel affected by the closure of the thermal, no to be involved in the drive of industrial initiatives in the village of the Bridges, no to encourage a qualitative change in the role that Galicia has come to play as a mere producer of electricity to also provide technology, no to condition the installation of wind parks to which industrial projects bring together, no to regenerate Ferrol's stream, no to push at all the Eume Frague Management Plan, nothing to put into value the archaeological, ethnographic and cultural heritage of the neighborhood. Its covenant of State for Ferrol reduces the Union to play a residual role in the economic life of Galicia and the district of Ferrol, a role neither witness nor witness, merely residual. A proposal that, coming from the majority party, from the party that supports the Government of Greece, produces shame alla liea. We're not going to be indifferent -- says Mr. Tellado --. How much money did you put together for the Bridges? Zero. How much money did you have for Navantia? Zero. How much to rekindle the stream? Zero. If it's not indifference, it looks a lot. Its proposal is basically unilateral, unconsensual at the most basic, a basically self-comprehensive and self-justifiable proposal with the role they are playing. A proposal that exempts the Fexoo Government from any responsibility for the severe crisis of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal districts, when it is precisely 12 years, 12 years of Fexoo Government, the main cause of this situation. 12 years of a government without a country project, audited by a small group of companies where people are just collateral damage. [[Applause]] The loss of population and people expelled from the naval sector, from the energy sector, or from work in the creek, the closures of Siemens Gamesa, Poligal and so many others are the measure of their success as ruler. It does not contain with the BNG to conceal its responsibilities or to support trap pacts with flags of convenience so that everything will remain the same. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we're here again talking about the need to equip Navantia with the burden of work. Once again, you take advantage of this objective necessity to feed the story that there's an evil central government that conspires against Galicia and a PP meeting that defends Galicia against this evil conspiracy, a false but effective portrait, because it lit a basic instinct of that human animal of what Felix Rodríguez of the Source spoke of, the instinct of defense, of what any mammal -- and we're all mammals including you -- is highly gifted. But if Mr. Feijóo -- as a fellow of mine said years ago -- mind with the same nature as he breathes, as a grower seller, Mr. Tellado, you have very little credibility, starting with the fact that he's been lying right now saying that we oppose the construction of a BAM in Ferrol, which we haven't done, we have repeatedly voted in favour of the construction of a BAM in Ferrol. In any case, if you with your formidable propaganda machinery, paid with public money, repeat machaconically that there is an outside enemy trying to take away ours, and that the problems of Navantia Ferrol are so simple that they manage a pen in the next Council of Ministers -- as they do, too -- for look well! And what a world of good and bad they paint, in which you are very good and the rest of us are very bad. But things are very different and much more complex. And the attribution of all the evil that occurs in Galicia to an evil outside enemy that causes us free suffering because it would supposedly have some kind of fixation against us is an absolute falsehood, in addition to a nonsense and a contribution to the deterioration of institutions, of the political climate and, in short, of the state of which we are part, bad that some people care about. That fallacy that Spain has stolen us from where they have been installed for three years -- by chance for three years now -- is as lying and as destructive as Spain robs us of the Catalan separatists. And besides, by spreading that fallacy, you contribute to Galicia's staying alienated, alienated and not facing the cause of its problems, which are partly your own after 36 years of right-wing narco government; 34, sorry, it's not 36. And I'm not saying it for Martial Golden. We'll have narco governments on the right. The reality is that in Galicia there are important industrial problems with the production set, but also with the absolute lack of planning, and the reality is that you have full competence in industrial policy, even though you seem to be unaware of it unusually, that you don't exercise them. Barriers have very serious problems, because of Pedro Sánchez's government? Obviously not. Vulcan broke, because of the government of Pedro Sánchez, for obviously not. Hundreds of Galician companies, not tens, hundreds of Galician companies relocated north of Portugal in the years in which in Spain Mr. Rajoy and Feijóo ruled here. This is also the fault of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, for it is very clear that it is not. When Gamesa moves north of Portugal, doing the same thing that those hundreds of Greek companies did for years, is it the fault of the central government? Of course not. Pemex's fiasco, which was going to build 22 ships in Galicia and a logistics base in Punta Langosteira and reflect Barriers, all of them unmet targets, is it the fault of the Government of Pedro Sánchez? Obviously not. Is it the fault of the Government of Pedro Sánchez that Mr Aznar extended the concession of AP-9 25 years in the year 2000? Well, I don't think so. Is it the fault of the Government of Pedro Sánchez that Mr. Rajoy's Ministry of Government Development in the years 2016 and 2017 made a defeat in the works of the AVE causing overcosts and delays in some cases of more than two years, as a demolitioner report of the State Court of Auditors put white on black? Well, of course not. And some of these things I've just exposed -- and many more -- are the blame of the PP governments in the state and some are the blame of the PP governments in the Union, but many of them aren't just the fault of those governments, because reality is always more complex. And I'm not going to practice the evil sport of blaming all of you, as you do with us, childishing the level of politics, putting it to your level, Mr. Tellado. Degrading the level of our democracy and starting in that mud of anti-politics that allows the emergence of extremisms of all kinds, some of which are present in the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, in the so-called Vox section of which you are part. But it's obvious that the negative things that happen in a Galicia that is governed by you 34 out of the 40 years of autonomy are much more of your responsibility than a government that has been in Moncloa for three years with a precarious parliamentary majority and that it has and has had to deal with the biggest health and economic crisis of democracy. And do you know what that central government is doing in that crisis with this parliamentary precariousness in Galicia? Yesterday, to authorize the spending to compensate for the fees of AP-9, a historic bonus that will involve 2,300 million euros up to 2048, which corrects the gift that Aznar gave us to extend the concession nothing more and nothing less than 25 years, when the highways built at the same time as AP-9, have already finished their concession deadlines or will be completed in the coming years. That was an outrage, a real outrage to Galicia, and you applauded with your ears. You created the problem and we'll solve that problem. You could have done it for seven years with Mr. Rajoy, but you didn't even think of asking him for a discount on the fees that have been excessive for decades. Instead, it does it as a progressive government, a socialist government; this is a fact, it's not an opinion, it's a very positive historical fact for Galicia, achieved by a progressive government. And you know what that progressive government did in 2018? Approving the execution and liquidation of the F-110 frigate program, which you have not done. You know what that government did, too? To approve in November 2019 a loan to Navantia for 1,638 million euros to build these frigates, a program of 4,325 million involving the largest industrial investment in Galician history, which the current government has taken out of the drawer in which Rajoy's government had put it. The Rajoy Government, for a question of missiles, that El Correo Gallego -- which is not a social communist, nor Bolivarian medium, to set an example -- summed up in November 2018 as follows: "The Government admits that Morenés slowed down Ferrol's F-110 for personal interest." For personal interest, Mr. Tellado. He was subtitling that El Correo advanced him in 2013-2014 "the movements of the former minister to favor their companies with prejudice to Navantia". "I think you want to tell me something Mr. Tellado, see if he'll tell me more calmly." The post, Mr. Tellado, not a communist medium. And the truth is that Morenés' missiles are very ugly, very ugly, but you can deny it; what they can't deny are the numbers, because in front of their stories are the accounts of Navantia, which are public; and to you they will sound Mandarin Chinese, but, look, I have here those of 2011 and those of 2017. You can consult them, and those in the middle too. I insist: Chinese mandarin will sound, but they say a lot of things. Because they're talking about the net assets, the net assets are the accounting value of a company, it doesn't have to match the market value, but it reflects, in theory, the faithful image of a company's assets. And the heritage value of Navantia in 2011, that is, what left the Government of Zapatero, was 222 million euros. The net assets, on the other hand, in 2017 were negative, of -653 million euros. That is, an 800 million-euro hole, which after the years that Mr. Rajoy spent in Moncloa was put in Navantia, after having that year 2017 the biggest losses in history: 296 million euros. And during his term of office, multimillionaire losses were accumulated. In 2012: 43 million, in 2013: 106 million, 2014: 27 million, 2015: 166 million, 2016: 229, until reaching the 2017 record. That's what you left, a company broken with a record of losses and the new Central Government has reduced those losses to half in 2019 to 144 million euros, half that you did in 2017, but the pandemic and the economic crisis has come, and all countries see their financial capacities reduced as a result of the extraordinary costs they have to face. And those who have to disburse 20% of their GDP in one year to alleviate the effects of the pandemic are in enormous difficulties in building military ships, despite which the F-110 frigates program continues ahead. The reality is that what left seven years of PP governments in Spain for the Galician naval was a Navantia in a situation of insolvency, broken, artificially maintained by the state. And the so-called Pemex case, not to mention the missiles again of Mr. Morenés, the so-called Pemex case which is summarized in Mr. Feijóo announcing before the election that Pemex was going to build 22 ships in Galicia that were soon left in 2 and that was going to place a Pemex logistics base for all of Europe, in Punta Langosteira, of which I never knew again, if, by the way, that it is being investigated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u52	...in Mexico. And, I repeat, if it hadn't been -- and finished, Mr. President -- if it hadn't been for the Morenés missiles in Navantia, there'd be workload, Mr. Tellado. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u53	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, Mr. Aranguena shows that there is an inversely proportional relationship between sovereignty and shame. Look, you talked about anything but the state pact, and whether the Government of Spain is going to join or not. You spoke of everything but the workers of Ferrolterra who have lost their jobs for the last few months. Do you really feel like a representative of the Socialist Workers' and Spanish Party? The reality is that you only represent yourself and probably a little Mr. Knight, and nothing else. Look, I understand that this week you don't want to talk about the Bridges, because if we talk about the Bridges you're afraid that you're talking to him about that suspected pucheraz that promoted your partner Valentín González Formoso and that you have so badly denounced publicly. Look, you're ruling in Spain with the support of those you're critical of saying that Spain's speech is stealing from us. Don't come here to do demagogy. Look, Ferrol doesn't steal from anyone, but Ferrol did steal from him the future socialist governments that have approved ship conversions since the 1980s and that have unemployed a lot of people and destroyed thousands of jobs. And that slate will always weigh on the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. That's a reality. We see that you were made 10 minutes long because you talked about everything but the initiative, and the state pact you didn't say anything at all. Look, about the F-110 frigates, you've been ruling since June 2018, since June 2018. Do you know what happened a week before you came to the Government through a motion of censure? You know what happened? What happened was that Rajoi's Government approved general state budgets that provided EUR 250 million for those F-110 frigates. You've been ruling three years, three years, what have you spent on F-110 frigates? Nothing, nothing, that's reality. You're hiding yourself in Mr. Morenés' Missile fallacy, who, if you think there's a crime, go to trial, but don't use it as an alibi to do nothing for the last three years you've been in front of the government. Because the reality is that the shipyards in the Ferrol River are 100% public and depend on the Government of Spain, the PPE, the responsibility is 100% of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, that is an unquestionable reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Galego Nationalist Block, Mr. Fernández Alfonzo, you are accomplices, you are accomplices of what happens, because you have made it president of the Government, you have signed a pact of shame, that pact between Ana and Adriana, in what they were talking about the naval sector, but you are not painting anything, because you are a footwear party, who do what the Socialist Party sends you, they support the Socialist Party in exchange for nothing, party nationalist and Welsh footwear. Look, of course BAM is a short-term solution, and the F-110 frigates are a long-term solution. Of course, the BAM would solve the problem immediately. Of course, the BAM would solve the problem immediately, as much as it bothers you, because your alternative proposal was the transformation of the Galician ship, a proposal with which you made the ridiculously, because a month ago, when we discussed the same initiative and presented it to my colleague José Manuel Rey, you were still in this gallery defending the transformation of the Galician ship. And you know what happened that same day? That their partners that same day took the boat to the shipyards of Andalusia. You don't paint anything, I'm a party [calzonations] in the service of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and in the service of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by order of the President, under Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] Look, Ferrol was born in the 18th century in the service of the Spanish Navy, as much as bothering them, the Spanish Navy. And for what? As the seat of a military arsenal and as the seat of a shipyard in the service of the State, what do you know what they do? Warships. And that's what we know to do, and that's what we've been doing for centuries. What bothers me is that the Galego Nationalist Block is calm, calm, sometimes they go out to burn a couple of wheels around there to say that there is no workload, and that the dismissed workers feel represented by you, but in a situation far better than this, in the years of the Government of Mariano Rajoy, you burned Ferrol because there was no workload. There was more than now. And now where are you? You're hiding, silent, ruling with the Socialist Party wherever you can. They're hostages of the Socialist Party, they've become you're a soccer match. Our proposal -- and that's why we're not going to accept your amendment -- our proposal has two parts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u56	To ask for the construction of a BAM that would give immediate workload and ask the Government of Spain to join this state pact. Mr. Aranguena, talk to the... Well, if they still take their phone, they'll be careful because they can take it and stop it --...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u57	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u58	...you call me your party partners in Madrid and ask Mr. Pedro Sánchez to answer the letter sent by the president of the board urging you to participate in this state pact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u60	...which would solve a lot of problems in a region so dependent, so dependent on the Government of Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Let's turn to... Yes, tell me, Mrs. Rodil, why do you want to use the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u62	Yes, on the basis of Rule 76.3 of the Rules of Procedure, in alluding to the decoration and dignity of my parliamentary group. I'd ask Mr. Tellado to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the word or concept of party footwear. If anyone has no arguments to defend his position and he has to insult, his place is not the Parliament of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u63	Yeah, shut up. Quiet, quiet. Thank you. Mr. Tellado, I'd ask you... I suppose you meant it, but the truth is, it didn't look very good... I'm talking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want some, too? I'd ask him to remove the word "sports" as he referred to the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u64	I know at this point that the word "sweet" after all we have to listen to these gentlemen, if they consider it an insult, the truth is that the sensitivity of the skin of Greek nationalism powerfully attracts attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u65	I'm sure you find...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u66	President, not only withdrawing it, but retiring it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u67	How? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'm about to make the decisions, don't worry. Well, let's ask him to withdraw from the records and have a call... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're very nervous. It's true that skin is sometimes very thin. I'm talking, and I'm saying you withdraw and I'll call you in order. Let me finish talking, because it's true that skin is often very sensitive in some cases and not in others, and not in others. [[Murmurs.]] I'm asking Mr. Tellado to withdraw it, he didn't remove it, and I said I asked him not to be in the Journal of Sessions and I call on Mr. Tellado. But I'm doing it because it's who I belong to, it's who I belong to. All right? So when you've done what you have to do, you can have an opinion, but let me do my job. Because it's true that sometimes we seem to be very sensitive, okay? We continue. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal not by law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and five more, on the demands... Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Vega, would you like to talk outside? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, man, he's talking. But I'm asking for silence, please. I'm asking for silence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Council of Ministers of Galicia on the basis of the suggestions contained in the report of the Board of Auditors on their economic and budgetary management during the financial year 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u68	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal and Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u69	Thank you, President Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Today we're going to talk about the Deputy. When Mr. Tellado -- now away -- was talking about pucherazos, we don't know very well what he was referring to. Pucherazo was the case in the House of Ourense in 2010 when a hundred militants joined in order to vote and make president of the current tenant of that institution. [[Applause]] That's what it was, since it was also disabled as a result of that kind of action, former president José Luis Baltar. Well, we're going to talk about the report of the Council of Auditors of Ourense, a report of the Board of Auditors that made a selective monitoring of the accounts of the Council of Ourense of 2018. An absolutely demolition report, a report that shows that clientelism, nepotism, plugging and decocracy are the signs of identity of the Ourense MP. An institution that has been denounced since the Socialist Group in the House of Ourenses, from the PSdeG of Ourense for years -- sometimes in solitude, everything has to be said -- since this institution is no less than an instrument to the sole and exclusive service of the People's Party, an absolutely clienteleary institution, a political, institutional and economic institution than those that are solely and exclusively beneficial to this People's Party, far logically from being a democratic institution and the service of the whole of the province, as it would have to be its object. In 2020, a group of Socialist Members of the Provincial Parliament presented to the Board of Auditors an important set of documentation that showed what the Board of Auditors finally collected in its audit report. It is true that this opposition work that we have been doing since the Socialist Party for many years has not been easy, because it has been fought, fought with campaigns and campaigns by the People's Party in that province, using its media power, its institutional and political power to carry out defamation campaigns and campaigns of personal disqualification against the party's spokespersons in that province. However, the Socialist Party continues to denounce all the dismanshipments of the Ourense Provincial Deputies, which are collected in addition to this audit report of the Board of Auditors. A report that shows nothing other than an absolute lack of control over the management of public funds, by doing this province, or by causing this province, uniquely and exclusively to continue to experience this timeless caciquism that has been ruining and crushing the development of Ourense province for decades. A province that loses its population continuously, which in the last 50 years has lost 140,000 inhabitants, 50 years of which 40 years in the MP is hegemonized by the People's Party and by a single family. A province where there are currently 10,000 pensioners more than taxpayers, in a province where there is a huge wage gap between what are urban centers and municipalities from 1,000 to 5,000 inhabitants, 7,000 euros of difference the salary and average income of a citizen who lives in the capital over one who lives in a municipality of 1 to 5,000 inhabitants, which are the immensely majority councils in the province of Ourense. And a province that loses -- I insist -- population at fast steps. There is a projection of the IGE for the next 15 years that shows that in the province of Ourense you will lose almost 30% of the population in some regions: Caldelas Land, Trives Land, Low Limia, Ribeiro and Viana, which makes it clear that in this province the political action and policies developed by parliament over the past 40 years, far from helping their development, what they have done is drowning and ruining and expeling their citizens from the province itself due to lack of opportunities. A control report that sets out a way to do things outside of the law of course, says the Board of Auditors' own audit report. An account presenting the deputation before the Board of Auditors that is not estimated to be yielded because it has defects of such magnitude that prevent that account from being taken into account. An accounting report that appears to be nothing other than... at last an account that does not really obey the economic data of the Members themselves. A deputy who made credit changes in 2018 amounting to EUR 30 million; that is, that budget, that the chairman of the parliament constantly announces as the institution that first presented the budget in the Spanish state as a whole, is not worth anything at all because finally the executed does not match the budget. A report that contains serious anomalies and reflects serious anomalies concerning the payment of invoices, the lack of inventory of assets in parliament, the lack of provision of accounts for possible judicial costs. And a report -- and this is already the definitive -- which shows what we've all known for many years, which is nepotism in the adjudication of public money from the MP. 84% of the grants are awarded nominally, especially, as is logical, for the municipalities governed by the People's Party; 8 out of every 10 contracts, i.e. 80 percent of contracts, are awarded, they are minor contracts without competitive competition or advertising. Of these 70% are allocated to 5 companies linked to the People's Party, and of these some companies are chained through smaller contracts throughout 2018, in particular two companies, more than one million euros in recruitment. Contraction which is also put on trial by the report of the Board of Auditors, questions the recruitment tables because of the lack of impartiality, showing that there are no mandatory reports of the absence of conflicts of interest and a deputation that ultimately makes -- at last -- of that institution, a People's Party that makes that institution its own institution and the service of its own interests, as shown by the fact that the Board of Auditors itself reflects in its report: 71 per cent of the staff of the deputy, employees, therefore also hired the finger by the institution itself, basically linked the contractors -- as it is logical -- to families and to the People's Party. [[Applause]] In addition, a staff who is seen to be absolutely gratified in an extraordinary way according to the will of their presidency without the slightest regulation as to the incentives offered and without the slightest control over the existence of conflicts of interest. Well, this is the situation that exists and emanates from the 2018 Audit Report of the Board of Auditors. And in view of this situation, we understand that this Parliament has to speak about the model implemented in this Member State, since this Parliament handles public money, money basically from State transfers, but also from the autonomous community, and also from participation in State taxes and taxes such as VAT and IRPF. And an institution in respect of which the People's Party, and especially Mr. Núñez Feijóo, cannot from now on look elsewhere, considering that Mr. Núñez Feijóo himself on his day also tried to change this model in 2010 without achieving it, but also understanding that Mr. Núñez Feijóo at this moment is guilty of deputation, as it shows the fact of maintaining a lethal pact in the city of Ourense so that the Socialist Party does not rule on maintaining a client network and a caciquil network through the single and exclusive deputation to guarantee votes when it touches the elections. So, in the face of this model -- that we criticize over many years and that the report of the Board of Auditors comes to officially put and reveal -- the Socialist Group with this initiative basically wants to change the model. And to that end, what we ask is that this Parliament also approve -- or in this case -- of the MP the adoption of a single plan of cooperation with the municipalities, in the same way that exists in the provinces of Lugo, Pontevedra and La Coruña, where it devotes a third of its budget to investments to the municipalities, investments that the municipalities themselves can decide according to their needs. A single cooperation plan that exists in other provinces, where large amounts of budget are allocated to it. And, as soon as that doesn't happen, at least the Provincial Parliament of Ourense supplement the current provincial plan of work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u71	...to allow -- I'm done, half a minute now -- to supplement those ridiculous accounts that some municipalities receive throughout the year and that do not exceed the amount of 50,000 euros. In addition, we call on this initiative to establish objective criteria for the allocation of grants, equitable criteria for the allocation of grants, fair criteria for the allocation of grants and competitive competition criteria and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u72	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Thank you, your time is up. Look at the clock, please. Yes, thank you, all that, you understand, you know Members, you're in writing. [[Mr. Francis Rivera pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, thank you, Mr. Rivera, please, your time is over now. [[Mr. Francis Rivera pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But look at the clock, please don't want it, I don't want it, I don't like to cut anyone's word, but please be a little collaborators, look at the clock. [[Mr. Francis Rivera pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Man, look at the clock, like a minute! So I see wrong, I must go to the eyebrow, because I see there a minute multiplied by two. I'll have to go graduate, sure, I'm old. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Iago Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u73	You're done, Mr. President, don't paralyze the plenary because of me. We're ready. Well, the truth is, this one... is it? Ah!, okay, okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, the truth is that it's a good epilogue this last plenary session this year, because it's a good epilogue to talk about Ourense, and to talk about Ourense in terms that we have to talk about, in terms of this non-law proposition, because it's practically the terms that every time, three out of every four times that Ourense was celebrated in this Parliament, in this House, it was by a negative fact, by a fact of a PP fallout or some discrimination on the board of Galicia. So, for example, we're talking about the transfuguism of the People's Party, the violation of the anti-transfuguism pact, Ourense's cases of Viana do Bolo, of Castrelo do Mine. Ourense was also praised for another negative fact, as were the reprisals in the face of protests about cuts in public services, as is the case of the Parish. By the suppression of frequencies of the AVE, the abusive prices of the Ourense route, were of the few times in which Ourense was also celebrated; that, by the way, the AVE line is not finished, the line does not say that the project will start this 2021, because the AVE that surrounds the city of Ourense, which enters by half, is not the definitive AVE, that was what designed Manolo Heads and Beijó Cloud, but is not the finally approved one. So the AVE will be approved when the external variant is done, so let's not finish it before time. And we also talk about Ourense when we mentor public works more designed for other purposes than to meet the needs of citizenship. Or we've also talked about Ourense many times for his helmsmans with the Lethal Government of Ourense. That, by the way, I don't know if they've planned to return the honor to Jácome or return the dignity to the institution they're mancilling, simply to stay in parliament, to the deputy we'll talk about next. [[Applause]] Well, it's no exception today, we also support Ourense for negative facts. By the way, negatives are no longer new. Well, as you can imagine, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because it has already been the position in the Third Committee of the Nationalist Block of Wales because we will vote for this initiative. But I'd like, a little by initiative, also a little by intervention, to give you some consideration so that you may best correct an involuntary mistake in what they are incur and even being unfair to their own socialist companions. I, first of all, don't understand whether they're a little confused about political opponents, about the political alternative, but, well, I'm not going into it anymore. But, in any case, the fight against recruitment in the Ourense Provincial Deputies did not start in 2020 with Mr. Villarino, already began at the end of the last century in the Ourense Deputies with Alfredo Suárez Canal; then in the Parliament of Galicia, also with Alfredo Suárez Canal; and many others, even with socialist companions, as with, for example, Miguel Cortizo. No, that fight isn't recent, but it's old. And, on the campaigns, I also don't want to merit your comrades, in that case fellow, of a comarcal executive, but the most brutal campaign against a socialist, more unjust, more outraged, who sat on a bench, in particular of the Penal 2, was against Aurea Soto, against Aurea Soto, and against Paco Rodríguez, and also unjustly -- even in private they recognized those of the PP -- against some socialist militant, nationalist. And that wasn't from Baltar, neither the IGC, nor the CIA; that's what I think they have to look at the house, so I want to recognize you with that merit of defamatory, aggressive and outraged campaigns, in this case I think you have to recognize it from a fellow of yours. To God what is of God and to whom belongs. In any case, I can't, because it hurt me politically and it hurt me professionally too because of the injustice I appreciated in that criminal procedure, finally absolved at Ourense Provincial Audience. Well, as I said, we will vote in favour, not only for the breaches and the lack of transparency that the Board of Auditors detects, but also for the harsh evidence of arbitrariness and illegality. The accountability is so brutal, it's so demeaning, that the Board of Auditors considers the unrelenting account. The budgets you approve are a takeover of per year after year, as reflected by the Board of Auditors in this report and in other previous amendments, an approval of budgets is made which is then modified to 35% of the initial credits that are then not even executed, simply what is reserved is licensed to cash out. As the socialist fellow mentioned, 84% of the grants are fingered; 90, almost 90% of the grants are through a system other than the ordinary, which the law provides as ordinary. They follow a system in which the extraordinary converts it into a general rule. I mean, dedocracy without justification and without explaining the reason for those subsidies, for so many nominative subsidies. 80% of contracts are through smaller contracts with no control and no control, 80%. And how do they get to that? Very easy: either they either cut the contract or they even break the quantitative limit, all to skip the controls that mark the law. By the way, the result is that 24% of all labour contracts awarded by the Member of Parliament go to the same company. Casualty? Like the other one would say: I don't believe it. And the truth is that it's also bad luck, because, as the Board of Auditors itself says, the few times they make a tender contract, they have so little experience, that they also engage in arbitrary and illegalities, as you don't know why they're granting low fears. Over the past three years, they have doubled the cost, the amount, the wage mass of temporary labour contracts. And so is the lack of control in the recruitment of staff of the Ourense Provincial Deputies, that the number of workers who report to the Court of Auditors differs by 100 -- in number 100 -- from what they tell the Board of Auditors. I mean, the Court of Auditors gives a completely different number of staff in at least 100 people than they tell the Board of Auditors. But, look, with all this, the democratic problem that we understand more seriously is that this is not new, it's not new, and the president of the parliament -- that's why I had to know what rare things were going on -- it was condemned for continuing prevarication, for a crime of prevarication continued by hiring staff. So maybe what Fraga said was that the PPs approved the oppositions because they were better prepared, maybe not, if it wasn't for those prevaricative policies and those clientalist policies. Whoever was mayor of Ourense for 12 years is going to sit on the bench for prevarication and ill-treatment to answer a crime for seven years in prison, not for disability, for imprisonment. But there were more indications not only of consents that there are mayors who contract with their own companies, and still being mayors, and Nuñez Feijóo knows and spares it. There are investigations by OLAF, the European Union -- or there was -- that were not going ahead and that the parliament had to return 10 million euros simply by prescription; that is, that this misunderstanding, that clientelism was even denounced by institutions of the European Union, not by the Galician Nationalist Block. And there are even reports from the 1998 or 2005 Board of Auditors that virtually reproduce the same as it reproduces or which indicates this 2021 report on the 2018 account. I mean, they're tolerant and consenting, they're even promoting, defending and now negotiating with Jacome the maintenance of this corrupt system and, of course, absolutely illegal. And by the way, I think that perhaps now time has allowed them to examine the matter a little more, it is not worth the Commission's apology for municipal autonomy, because both the Self-Government Statute, which perhaps has already given it time to read, such as Galicia's Public Administration Act, such as the Local Regime Basics Act, give the autonomous community the financial protection of local entities. So what you're asked for is perfectly legal, possible and democratically demanding. By the way, the consequences of all of this, as the socialist fellow mentioned: we have lost population, about the last 20 years at a rate of five newspapers, and surely we must also correct an involuntary error by the president of the Union. Since his rule, Ourense has lost 23,500 boys and girls between 14 and 30 years of age. The truth is, you may actually have no reason for Castelao and the Greek doesn't protest, you emigrate, or you're not now, but you're right Manolo Rivas, you're right, but the Greek -- orrensan in this case -- you're not protesting, you're just not born. But the truth is we've lost over the last 20 years at the rate of five citizens and daily citizens. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u74	Thank you, Mr. Tabares. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. They tell Einstein when he met Chaplin, he said, "I admire you very much because, without saying one word, everyone understands you." And Chaplin replied, "Well, I think you're bigger because everyone admires you without understanding a single word you say." [[Applause]] This is simply to try to approach postures, especially on this subject so twisted, so spoken, so seen, both in Ourense and now in Santiago by what I see. I think we can approach postures or define ourselves clearly, at least. Let's see if we can make it today. By the way, Ourense's PP in 2010, and very badly should not have chosen when we still have the same president, in other parties the charges are more ephemeral. Look, as you well know, the Galician Union has no competence, Mr. Iago Tabares, it has no competence over recruitment processes and grants carried out by local authorities or provincial deputies. The competent bodies in the processing of the adjudication of procurement procedures and the granting of grants shall be the respective provincial deputies. The Galician Union has neither powers nor intervenes in this type of process nor in the U.S. Deputies nor in any of the other Greek provincial deputies. It is not the Council of Galicia but the vigouring legislation to cover the recruitment and grant processes of Members and Councils. In addition, provincial Members enjoy local autonomy recognised in the Spanish Constitution and in the 1985 European Charter of Local Self-Government. In fact, article 141 of the Constitution states that the province is a local entity whose government and administration corresponds to the deputies, but with a fundamental nuance, which is that they are recognised as autonomous. By their band, Law 7/1985 of 2 April, bases of the local regime, in developing the concrete Constitution, that autonomy adding that it will be for the management of their interests. And on the same lines as the 1985 European Charter of Local Self-Government, ratified by Spain in 1988, means by local autonomy "the right and effective capacity of local authorities to order and manage an important part of public affairs within the framework of the law under their responsibility and for the benefit of their inhabitants". As can be seen, local authorities, including provincial deputies, are protected by local autonomy for the management of their interests within the framework of their competences. And so when they carry out these procurement and grant processes within their powers, they act autonomously under the law of course and under their responsibility. Moreover, our legal system provides for control mechanisms for local authorities, irrespective of the control of those who have already been tried under the Constitution, because, logically, their autonomy is not unlimited and there are control mechanisms, internal mechanisms for judicial-economic control over the legality of their acts, which do the secretaries and the interveners of these institutions; and external mechanisms through the economic, financial and accounting control of the Council of Auditors, through the institution of the People's Valor in relation to the control of transparency and public information obligations. And, in addition to the previous one, provincial Members are also subject to control by politicians, Members and Members who are part of the Members themselves. Therefore -- I insist -- neither the applicable rules on public grants nor the applicable in public procurement gives the possibility to exercise more control than I have just indicated. The Union may only monitor acts which invade its powers and fulfil conditions and criteria in the case of grants or contracts which are convened and awarded from the autonomous administration itself. Therefore, the Union cannot assess or analyse how they are fulfilling or failing to comply with acts or processes adopted within the provincial parliaments and the rest of the local entities. This, as you know, would be an interference in local autonomy without any sense or foundation beyond an unacceptable interventionism in the democratic system that we have. Mr. Rivera, in his non-law proposal it is also clear that they are obsessed with having the House of Ourense do the same thing as the other Greek deputies. For you, the miracle of pancakes and fish is the only plan, so we solve everything. They're always comparing the four Greek MPs and they know perfectly well that they have no comparisons or similarities by extension, nor by inhabitants, nor by number of municipalities, nor even by budgets, and much less, and logically as they all know, or much less by their governments. The Greek MPs only seem to be one thing: their governments, their governments, the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, are ruling in the Lugo Deputies, the Pontevedra Deputies and the Crown Deputies. And they rule in their own way, in their own way, and it seems that the House of Ourenses, the House of Ourenses, cannot rule in that way. We are a legitimate government, legitimized by the orensans and, therefore, we understand cooperation with the municipalities, we understand what our province is, we do not ignore its peculiarities and singularities in our territory and we rule like this. Look, I'm going to tell you clearly to close this subject. We don't want your only plan, we don't. We want many plans, many plans for municipal cooperation with the municipalities, many plans for cooperation with the communities, the six that we have. Social action plans, plans for business development, business, tourism, technology... plans for the prevention and fight against forest fires. I reminded you yesterday, the Councillor of the Rural Middle East: the Parliamentary of Ourense, the only Greek MP who signed the agreement with the Rural Middle East to buy debating tractors. Cultural Action Plans, Drought Plans, Emergency Services Plans. Look, the House of Ourense listens to, analyzes and prioritizes its policies on the basis of its requests; the opposite is to share money and points. The House of Ourense, as you know, also bets on many services that other Members do not provide: garbage collection, management of provincial roads, direct management, funding of GHGs in the part that would have to approach the municipalities, the Contraincendiary Consortium, is the only management that cooperates in the management of the water cycle, beyond the provision of infrastructure. We offer employability programs, youth, birth aid, Ben Ourense, audience network and a long et cetera. It was also the only deputation that helped the autonomous in this pandemic situation, even though some wanted to avoid it. Look, you have to have a little boldness, not to say anything else, to come here to speak of the Ourense Deputy as a deputation of clientelism and nepotism, when Sánchez, our central government: "Sánchez will invest 20% less in Galicia, but will fire 52% of the money for Catalonia." And the holder below, or second holder: "The communities governed by the socialists, among the territories where the budget grows the most." But this isn't nepotism, this isn't dedocracy, this isn't any of it that has the House of Ourense. And, look, we're not going to talk about the contracts, Mr. Rivera, I don't want to come in and talk about the staff recruits either in the Ourense Deputies or in their Town Hall in Verín. Look, the Board of Auditors says a lot of things, but a lot of things, too, of other municipalities, not only of the House of Ourenses. We're not going to mention them. But it also says that Ourense's deputy has donated the necessary collaboration to carry out the fieldwork, has brought in the necessary documentation, has met the deadlines for requirements in form and time, and, as you said yesterday on the stage, a fellow of all of us, even though it's my party, the recommendations of the Board of Auditors must be seen as positive because we have to be forced to improve, which is our objective, to continue to improve. In addition, there are no legal repairs formulated by Intervention, we comply with the principle of budgetary stability, debt, expenditure rule, payment period to suppliers; all contracts are published in the Public Sector Procurement Platform, all without exception, all have favourable reports from the Secretariat and Intervention departments. And the nominative grants are perfectly legal, those of the House of Ourense and those of the other Greek Members. What is clear, ladies and gentlemen, with this NLP is that you always preach one thing when you're ruling and you're against it when you're in opposition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u76	Thank you, Mr. Iron. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u77	Thank you, President. Yes, good day again. Mr. Iron, I who have you, as you know, personal appreciation, have already told you in the commission that you made a paperboard and today you have just repeated it. I... finally, when he talks to me about hiring and he quotes me from the Town Hall of Verín, I don't know... You have to have a little bit of a smell, you have to have a little bit of a smell because I have 250 affiliated people here, linked to the People's Party that work or worked in the House of Ourense. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want me to start with names and surnames, because one of you likes to sit in this House? Maybe some of you sit in this House. [[Applause]] And I can make you an Excel table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u78	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u79	I don't know if Mrs Candia has anything to say, if she's in the debate. [[The President said not to be heard.]] We can make an Excel table, in particular by linking the grandchildren, children, cousins, nephews, sisters, sisters, noras, noros and other relatives of the People's Party to the Deputy of Ourense. It is therefore regrettable, it is regrettable that you come here with an absolutely fabulous, fabulous case, to establish some sort of comparison about it. [[Applause]] And as far as you're concerned, I'm not giving any data, because it's not at all the object of this initiative. With regard to the initiative, with the audit by the Board of Auditors of the 2018 Deputation, it is not an isolated fact, because recently the Official Journal of Galicia on July 5 published the list of grants granted in the Ourense Deputy this year, in the year 2021, in the first four months. And I guess you're guessing the Euro 1,200,000 that almost took 1,050,000: 18 Town Councils of the People's Party. 140,000 euros took us 4 municipalities where the People's Party does not rule. [[Applause]] But these 18 People's Party Councils make up 20,000 inhabitants and the 4 Town Councils, 18 People's Party Councils make up 20,000 inhabitants, and the 4 Town Councils that are not People's Party numbers 24,000 inhabitants. Therefore, what the Deputy is doing is assigning public money to the People's Party councils regardless of the needs of the whole of citizenship, logically from where it lives and who governs in that municipality. And that's what we report. That's why we bring these kinds of initiatives here, and you say they're all messed up and shredded. And more than they'll be, and more they'll be, and more they'll be, because we're going to keep insisting that it's necessary to democratize an institution like the House of Ourense, where money is allocated to the finger, in grants and in contracts. Contracts -- which I don't say, which is said by the Board of Auditors -- eight out of ten contracts are awarded without advertising or competitive competition. Of these 80% of contracts 70% go to five companies and, by chance, the five companies are linked to the People's Party! Just like a company of a son of a mayor of the People's Party. At the same time, companies with fewer than EUR 1 million in employment, which is absolutely illegal as the Board of Auditors report shows. [[Applause]] And, in the face of this situation, at last, a situation which is certainly not shared by all the mayors of the People's Party in Ourense, because there are also mayors of the People's Party who are seen to be nullified by their own MP in the allocation of public funds. I therefore call on this Parliament to reconsider and turn it, especially on the People's Group, in relation to what is happening in the province of Ourense. And if we have any chance that this will ultimately change for the sake of citizenship and of those we live there. Because, as this goes on, and the Member of the BNG and fellow, five inhabitants less each day for many years, and what the official institutes project, the IGE, is that in fifteen, twenty years, in some area, especially in some area of some Member who sits in this House too, no one will be left. At the same time, even though these districts are now filled with grants from the deputation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u80	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the reformulation to be carried out by the Greek Government of the primary care model There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of amendmentAt the introduction of point 1, replace the text ranging from "primary attention" to "in the report" with the following text: "including the conclusions set out in the report and those of the 15 committees of the Technical Council for Primary Care, "Replace the text of paragraph a1. by the following: "a1. The incorporation into the Primary Care Service Wallet of the essential categories to pay full attention and take off the waiting lists to begin with: clinical psychology staff, occupational therapists, logos, social workers, podologists..."Replace the text in paragraph c1. by the following: "c1. Put in place immediately the portfolio of services of all professional categories of Primary Care, Nursing, Matrons, Physicology, Psychologist@s clinic@s, worker@s social... as collected in Law 44/2003 of 21 November 2003 on the management of health care professions (LOPS), which enables them to have, as qualified and prepared staff, capacity and autonomy in decision-making, in the prescription and care and follow-up of the health processes of sick people, to contribute to a better quality of care and to disconnect family medicine schedules."]] And, to formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. You see, speaking of the House of Ourense wasn't as important as changing a vote yesterday, which nobody had to wait for. There was no one in the PP who wanted to talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u82	You come back on a subject that has already been explained enough. Don't go back on matters that don't have... let's go to primary, which is an interesting subject. Pull forward.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u83	It's interesting. Do you want to wait for someone to come to the debate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u84	You yourself, I leave the watch and, if it's worth it, we're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u85	No, no, you're here that's changing votes and passing Parliament through the hole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u86	I'm sorry, I didn't change any votes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u87	Yes. Mr. President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u88	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u89	We know what you are and what you do and why you do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u90	And you have a special polluter that every time you get out here, it's about you that I get into controversy with you and I have no interest in getting into controversy with you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u91	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u92	I've explained conveniently to those who had to explain yesterday the reasons why I did the voting. It's already explained.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u93	Yes, yes. No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u94	Don't worry, I won't tell you this minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u95	No, I can tell you I'd be right enough.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u96	Let's go to primary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u97	Thank you, Mr. Bal, Mr. Santalices, I'm sorry! I didn't mean it, really.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u98	Yeah, well, it's all unwanted, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u99	Don't worry, they're talking to the elders now. Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. President. We don't wait for anyone, do we? All right. May I? [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's a matter of respect, I'm waiting; you're talking and I hope. If you want to say anything else... we can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u100	Quiet, please! I think there's an important issue that's... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Primary care toilets in Galicia to the limit; I can't sleep at night anymore. They speak of more than 55 patients a day and that the pandemic, which is obviously a problem, unites the usual problems of lack of staff. We could quote this news last month, last week, last February, last November, last March, last 2019, 2018. If you look for similar words and news in Galicia, you'll find that this news is likely to be repeated systematically. The People's Party tends to deny this debate, like some others, and to say that this is not true and that they are anecdotes of the system. Well, the reality is, if you ask the professionals, which they probably do, they know this is reality, and while we're looking at this primary system that's going to sink deep, we're still here trying to crash into a wall that the only thing they're trying to say is that guilt is always someone else and that they're doing it very well. I raised the following question to you, moved it several times about some possibility of doing this kind of debate with health professionals. I've never received any answer; I'm not saying that I've received the negative, I've never received any answer. But what we've been thinking is pretty simple. We're not in time to study what to do. That time has passed. Everyone knows what to do, don't listen to what this party says, don't listen to what this Member says, which is not the relevant one, if what we want is to face a reality that we have before us. They listen to what the professionals say. But it is more, let us propose today through an initiative, very much like some that we proposed at the time, to listen to what the Galician Union itself says, because there is a peculiar curiosity: the Galician Union stated a few years ago that it was necessary to study what was the situation of primary and what were the avenues of solution. He commissioned some reports, he commissioned some studies, some of them strategically well thought out, and he never listened to them. He kept us in a drawer because they showed that human resources policy, the primary care policy of the Galician Union is being absolutely regrettable in the last 10 years, in general terms in the last decade. What do we think? The Socialist Party has been proposing for some time and reaffirms its intention to defend that it is necessary to agree on a primary care model for what needs to be put in resources and a reformulation model. And we don't intend to base ourselves on anything that isn't what the Galician Union itself defends, because the Galician Union says it defends what its reports issue, and so we say what we say is: if you have the analyses done, if you've asked the recognized specialists to do some analysis of the primary situation, why aren't we going to be able to agree to do what they told us to do right now? And this would be quite surprising, if not because the Union actually ends up voting against itself. Look at a well-known jade artist, the first half of the 20th century, said that the tactic is to do what it's about to do when you know what to do and the strategy is to do what to do when you don't know what to do. Well, we're not in time to study, we're in time to act; late, probably late. What do we need? We need to reverse a very clear strategy that the Greek health system is living in the last few years, which has to do with something basically like the following, which is a concentration of resources. You put together a concentration -- they tried to be civil, but they probably didn't measure that it was too obvious -- a concentration of services that has to do with the system, which basically aims to lose primary capillary, derive resources from primary, now in primary, 1,000 professionals less than ten years ago, and derive primary resources for hospitals. But not even for all hospitals, not even for all hospitals, because when we saw hospitals you did not derive resources for everyone, but only for those of the big cities, and the hospitals of the comarcas were abandoned. Some of them receding a little bit, like in Verín, after the unfortunate episode -- by the way, to see if they're able to understand that what happens in Verín is obvious to everyone, that there's a pursuit, to see if they're able to understand it --. From that, you are concentrating all the health resources on decapiliating primary, leaving the comarcas hospitals and focusing on some type of health care for hospitals in the big cities. It's good that we have a good system in some services, that we have, but it's essential that in this country we are not procyclical in terms of population loss, in terms of service loss, in terms of rural population fixing, in terms of public services where they are also very necessary. And so, with this primary problem, we have this situation, because the reality we're dealing with is, there's not a lot of primary professionals who have 50 appointments a day, which is six minutes per patient. Is this a reality or is there anyone who is able to defend that this is an anecdote? Because this is the truth that we have in health centers. We can also -- I made them the proposal -- to draw out ten health centers in Galicia, we've chosen among all of them, we've chosen ten, and we're going and we know what the reality of each of those ten is, and you'll see that it's impossible to defend what you're defending here, because it's unlikely, because it's not true that these problems don't exist, they're there. And we are in favour of a proposal that we believe is sensible, in concrete terms, certainly fine-tuned. We have the defense of this that we propose, but we understand that it would be possible to speak. In terms of staff, what do healthcare professionals need especially in primary care? Time, they can't attend every patient in six minutes, running, and then part of what would no longer be their work day, visiting patients in their homes, planning community health, trying to do some training or research. You guys stop asking for an extraordinary primary MIR now, and what form is that MIR if there are no tutors? We need to have a capacity to organize primary school, organize primary school doesn't mean that you come here saying that you're very well organized, that you have primary care agencies, but not agencies that are a wagon that puts somebody on, but you have resources to put some mechanisms on, because if it's not impossible. We need to inevitably give professionals the ability to develop all the training that they are, two and a half years old, two and a half years old, since the State Government reversed the People's Party decree and this State Government has allowed the prescription of nursing. You guys who like rankings, you know what the last autonomous community in Spain is about to recognize the nurses who haven't done it yet? Galicia. The nurses in this country, in Spain, can do many things that they can't do in Galicia, among them to prescribe some kind of medication; in Galicia they can't, why? because you refuse, you're blocking, don't you trust Galician nursing? We do, we defend that we have to. We defend that primary professionals don't have to walk for permission from anyone to do a test or to request a test and they have training to request it and interpret it. They're not second-rate doctors, as you treat them. We need to defend all these things and our professionals so that they don't repeat that professionals continue to say that they have 50, 55, 60 patients a day and you come here to say that this is the invention of the Socialist Party. It's not a debate to win the Socialist Party, nor is it a debate to win me, which is nothing important. It is a debate to move and to be able to change. And yet you probably -- and today I'm sorry to have you advance it already -- will be against it, because you finally talk a lot, you talk a lot, but when you vote you always vote the same thing: you have to do it, you have to study, we're going to see how you're going to talk about the commissions that are going on, and they've been three years, and you still don't know why, and at the end we're not going to have any reaction capacity. They'll say they've invested a lot and they'll probably say it's the government's fault, like almost everything. But in the end, the reality is that you really have to defend whether you're believing in this system or not because the truth is that for now it doesn't seem so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u102	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. There was a document left. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u103	Good morning. Without being a precedent, I will agree with the President of Parliament that the situation of primary care is a very important issue. And, said this, I also urge you to show it to your group and to take care of them, who are working from the Government of the Union to give it a solution. [[Applause]] Because, of course, at this point, the cry that primary care advances towards precipice is unstoppable is already widespread; professionals, population, in general, are seeing the collapse of public health care, which has to be primary care, and is not fulfilling that function at all. And the evidence of progressive decapitalization of primary care is multiple and obvious. It is also evident that before the pandemic came, there were many previous pathologies, and manifestal posts in this Parliament repeatedly and repeatedly we met the People's Party wall; and it was made manifest by the population, that there is nothing but to be looked at in the media and to see how one day yes and another are also multiple places in our country where neighborhoods are thrown into the street demanding a service of what they are deprived of. It is also evidence that it was among the areas most affected by the People's Party's budgetary policy, of 12 years of primary care cuts, and even this year 2021 has grown below the average of the Health Council, and obviously below the average of the budget. In Galicia, per capita investment in primary care is far below the average of other health systems outside the Spanish state, but below the average of the Spanish state. And the deficit of professionals in primary care is the result of this ideological position of deteriorating this health system and not having implemented measures or budgeting, we found ourselves with deficits of professionals in a blatant way. And we have to repeat again what is the situation, for example, of midwives, who themselves through their association have denounced that within five years 70% of those in active employment will retire, a real drama. Or in the case of nurses, who have the queue ratio across the Spanish state and we don't talk about the European Union or other comparative ones. And this is what's happening? That the response to the health demand situation is being made with the over effort of professionals who are paying attention to ordinary care, the chronics, the acutes, following up all the people who are going to hide in their homes and servants; and we are seeing how this new fifth wave is assuming an increase in exponential cases, which are being treated from primary care, in addition to being taking care of vaccines, not with the same staff, but with much less personal. I mean, a real situation that you are, actually in agreement with Mr. Torrado, that we can go to any media where we see that you're saying we can't stand it anymore, we can't stand it anymore, that primary attention is on the edge of the collapse. This larger hospital, which is currently saying that there is no risk of hospital collapse, but if there is a risk and a lot of collapse of primary care in our country. And if some lesson has left us the situation before and now sighted with all cruelty during the pandemic, during the cave, it was the need to have a basic health system, such as primary care, well-equipped and with sufficient professionals, and it has been shown that we do not have it, it has been shown that we do not have it and that the staff have been suffering these years of precariousness, of temporality, saturation and that it is tired of, the professionals are fed up that they are blowing themselves up of the important, recognitions, medals or prizes, but that nothing is done to improve their working conditions or by providing them with more resources or more professional resources. So the sighs are very good, but what we have to do is provide them with resources and increase the number of professionals to stop being exhausted and for the population to have the health care they demand and that they also need. And, of course, the staff situation has consequences for the health care of the population. I mean, consequences for the conditions in which the professionals do their work, and it has consequences for the health care that the population is receiving. First of all: difficulty accessing centers; the lack of professionals is that there is a difficulty accessing health centres. Difficult to apply for appointment: 15 days, 20 days to have an appointment in primary care is totally against what has to be primary care, which is proximity and immediateness, which is what has primary care. And of course at this moment it's blown up in the air. Weeks of delay to have an appointment in many telephone cases so they can tell you to see if you can get a visual attention. What's the result? That there is no continuity in attendance, that there are times that there are Welsh and Welsh people in our country who see it for the same health process 4, 5, 6 and up to 8 different professionals, because every day it's a different one and so, of course, there's no way to have health care with a minimum of quality. And while this happens, what's going on? That people who may be hiring health insurance, they're going to private health, which is the roadmap that the People's Party has behind these actions that are leading to deterioration of public health. Professionals who apply for suspension of calls on the waiting list, because they offer them better conditions in private or other health systems in the Spanish State or outside the Spanish State, because they are giving them no solution. Of course, at the BNG we clearly agree that measures must be taken to provide professionals with resources and the ability to make decisions to meet all the demands of the population and to have primary quality care. We tabled an amendment to this non-legislative proposal presented by the Socialist Party in the first aspect, which is that it goes to another primary care model and measures are taken, but including those envisaged in that report for primary vertebrate health care of the health system, but also the conclusions of the Technical Council for Primary Care, also created since the Galician Council, since the Health Council, more than two years ago, where more than 200 professionals have been and are working on 15 technical committees, which, according to the publication in the CEO, has as its mission to assess the human resources needs, the resolution capacity and portfolio of primary care services, the management of care processes, related to primary and hospital care. Of course, we think we have to take very seriously the work of all these professionals, which, in addition, in an unselfish way and without charge, because today we don't know whether the 16 experts in the other report have done it before or after, but what is clear is that these over 200 professionals are doing it in an altruistic way, just thinking about improving primary care. The second aspect of the amendment presented by the BNG is in the direction of what we believe, the other two amendments and that it is time to make concrete decisions that are possible and necessary. And the first one is that there's no need to delay, nor do it progressively and evaluate the incorporation of other professionals, but we believe that incorporation into the portfolio of primary care services of other professional categories is necessary now. And start with what we put in the amendment, which is for psychology personnel, and I say here that it's more than proven by many studies that 30% of primary care consultations have to do with mental health, so if we incorporate clinical psychologists into primary care, we're taking out 30% of the demands of family doctors. With which a mechanism, an alternative that can be done immediately, because there are clinical psychologists enough to be able to hire, and which gives an immediate response. Just like occupational therapists, speech therapists, social workers or podologists, which are necessary to take off -- I insist -- these waiting lists in family doctors, but also to give better quality care. And the other amendment we tabled is to replace one of the sections of the initiative, which says that we encourage the expansion of functions and capacities. We also believe that it is not the time to be in the process of promoting, but that we must immediately put in place the service portfolios of all these professional categories that are determined by law, that they have that ability to do so, qualification, preparation, capacity and autonomy to make decisions in the prescription and care and follow-up of people's health processes, without having to be sidelined for their first passing by the family doctor. With these measures as soon as possible, it is possible to give an answer that means taking the professionals off and taking the attention to the population, with which we believe, of course, that it is possible to do so, that only political will is obviously lacking, and that political will is that the People's Party has shown that it does not have, has shown that it has no political will to implement measures as envisaged in the initiative and that, of course, we believe that with the BNG proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u104	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u105	...they would improve and, of course, they go that way so that primary care is really that spinal axis that is needed and not just that it's on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u107	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. I wanted to begin by saying that for days now we have known the fact that tomorrow morning, on July 15, the Director General of Health Planning and Reform, the request itself, to report on the reforms initiated by the Board in primary care and on what is planned to be undertaken based on the conclusions adopted by the Technical Council for Primary Care. Public health has to be a priority for any government, and that's what it is, and so it's been demonstrated over the past 12 years by the Government of Galician Union. Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that has made more fundamental progress in the development of its health. Primary care is a fundamental priority for the Government of the People's Party, aware that it is the gateway to the health system and its fundamental axis. Mr. Torrado, the People's Party does not tend to hold any debate about health, so that no one can see you as the first minute of your intervention in this LNP. You said we had 1,000 professionals less. We have 594 professionals more in primary than in 2009. We count on professionals who have excellent training, who are increasingly equipped with more tools that make their ability to resolve more and more. And I can understand that you, who are in the opposition, want to form a algorithm, but allow me not to share your claims and your assertions that you so freely do disparaging Greek health and missing the truth. I don't know exactly, Mr. Torrado, what is the purpose of your GNP by asking for proposals that are already being made since the Government of Galicia. We have recently been used to presenting initiatives that are going to tug the actions of the German Government itself. And, look, since the Health Council, great efforts have been made to ensure that Galicia's primary care has not been left behind and has been able to evolve and be that vertebrate axis of the health system and can be positioned in a prominent way as a clear reference in the national and even international context. The current model of primary care, despite the crisis that has been living in recent years and that the Government of Greece has been aware of, has contributed to the system's proximity, accessibility, social justice, professionalism and order to the entire health system. You at your first point urge the Galician Union to start in 2021 -- we're in the middle of July -- a real and determined formulation of primary care. Do they not know that since the Galego Health Service they are worried about and are dealing with the pressing problems that occur in such a dimensional service? And that's why, by not escaping the problems that comes with primary care in recent years, the primary primary care plan 2019-2021 has been implemented for some time now. Because the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is always to make an early diagnosis, a good diagnosis, and so on from the Health Council. And so, not now, which is also, but years ago since the council, aware that it was with excellent, accessible and decisive primary care, equipped with competent professionals, but it is not alien to those who suffer from tensions arising from the lack of professionals to cover absences with schedules often oversized, with a generational rebound, with biases and retirements of optionals, and all this combined with the lack of new professionals to be able to contract, and, in addition, immersed in a sociodemographic change towards chronicity and multiple pathologies peculiar to the ageing of the population. This made it necessary for the successful model with which it had been told to evolve and change to continue to enjoy an excellent health system. And again, in the face of this difficult situation, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Council has decided to act and initiate a more participatory process of primary care, with no background in our community, and possibly in any other, to develop proposals for solutions to the problems identified. There were professionals working day by day at health centers to propose improvement measures for primary school, and over 21 meetings in groups of 10 and 12 people, 123 professionals from different categories worked for more than 150 hours to prepare half a thousand proposals, specifically 525. A plan of proposals and more than 200 actions, with shared dialogue and decisions. And so one group of health experts managed the strategy and management document for primary vertebrate health care of the health system, whose objective is to establish the vision for the strengthening of primary care in Galicia over the next few years. By the way, we and since the Health Council pay attention to reports, and precisely one of the editors is now responsible for planning future primary care, which is, as I told you at the beginning of the intervention, that he will appear tomorrow in Commission 5a to explain to us how often what he is doing from this general direction and that good insurance will provide us with important information. By the way, this general direction of new creation I imagine that I would advise you to raise awareness, as I previously pointed out, of the necessary changes that today's society demands. A society that is increasingly walking towards a more proactive medicine. Look, yesterday we voted for the dictatorship issued by the Galician Commission for Social and Cultural Reactivation -- by the way, they voted against both the BNG and the PSOE -- and we saw that one of the key elements for economic, social and cultural recovery is to support public health services as much as necessary. Precisely, one of the conclusions of this dictatorship proposes the renewal of the regulations governing primary care and the improvement in the provision of squares, two aspects that had already been included in the document "For primary vertebrate care of the health system", and, of course, the commission calls for progress in strengthening human resources. And, as you know, the repositioning rate makes it impossible for thousands of squares to be summoned who are in an interim situation and who could go through this property adjudication. We also call for training, this realization of an extraordinary call for MIR evidence to have more doctors who can meet all those demands. I would ask you, Mr. Torrado, if you have planned from the Socialist Party of Galicia to force the central government -- of your own party, together with the support of the BNG -- to which I am fulfilling these proposals. And another important fact that I want to remind you to keep in mind is that you just passed a real decree to reduce timeliness in the public sector, but it is curiously not that this rule applies in two of the areas where greater temporality is registered, that is, in health and education. This can be seen at the BOE on July 7, 2021. If they really want to be useful, they have in their hands to correct this situation and urge their government party partners in Madrid to avoid the exclusion of health and education staff. Look, I'm done, they talk about clippings, but the data dismisses us. The health budget has increased by 21% compared to 2009, we have 473 million more than last year. The resources for health personnel have increased by 154 million, 8.5% compared to last year. They use the figures you use, the reality is teimuda and the health expenditure has increased with the People's Party governments. But, of course, his memory is selective; in fact, I haven't heard any criticism about what the Government of Spain invests in 104 million euros less in Galicia. But they still talk about cuts. And I remember again that this year's budget has more than 150 million for reinforcement contracts, for new markets, for careers and for continuity contracts. Nor did I hear you talk about the stabilization measures with the annual OPEs or annual transfer invitation to tender. They haven't talked about the increase in health-area squares, with more than 700 created in two years. They also forget about wage improvements in maternity. They also don't talk about the creation of new categories, such as the ADO system or diet and nutrition technician; and other categories in which they are working, as well as the definition of new service portfolios in primary care. They also forgot to talk about the Welsh Mental Health Plan 2020-2024, 121 psychiatrists in 2008, to 195 in 2019 and 249 in 2024. As for research, the collective agreement that will regulate the work of its workers with significant improvements in the payroll has already been commented on in this Chamber, and that in addition the parties to the unions have agreed that these effects have been applied since January 1st this year. And they come back with the mantra of privatization, even though the accounts council data show that Sergas devoted more of his spending to private concerts when you ruled, 6%, and ruling the PP never passed by 5%. And with regard to the point where they ask the health counsel to attend, you know there's no problem. In fact, apart from last November's appearance, as it goes on year, he appeared in this full three times. And he's willing, of course, to come in as many times as you require. Look, the truth is, in front of a central government that hides itself, we have a board that gives a face...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u109	... -- I'm done now -- and, in view of a position that makes proposals without criteria, we have a stable government that governs with guarantees. The dismantled health you're talking about wouldn't have resisted in any way a pandemic of this virulence and did so. We are the autonomous community with a lower death rate of the peninsula and that, of course, is not by chance. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u110	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u111	Thank you, President. I want to thank you for the tone of the debate, despite the discrepancies. On the proposals of the Galician Nationalist Block, I think what Mrs. Prado is basically moving is that she had to do more or she didn't like formulation. We understand that it is basically formulated as we say. I mean, we interpret that our proposal is more concrete than it moves. We are not going to accept the amendments, not because we do not agree, because they have been debated and if they have voted and we have voted in favour of those texts, but because they replace things that we consider important; on the BNG proposals we have already voted them when they are presented by the BNG, but we do not want those proposals to replace our own, which we believe are important. But, in any case, I believe that the wording of the debate indicates that we obviously agree mostly, despite the discrepancies of some positions, but in general we have seen the usual coincidence. I think yes, allow me, I think the report of what we're talking about today about primary care, done in 2018, I think it's actually paid; it's true that you don't know how, because the Health Counsellor, the budgets that you have, as the Board of Auditors says, are quite opaque and cannot be monitored. But, come on, I understand that the people who do that kind of work collect them and I suppose I'd charge them, I want to suppose, I don't have any information, but I think so. On Mrs. Friend's position, I think it's not a question of always discussing the same things. I'm going to try to change the way I have to do this debate, try to get into everything, I'm going to centralize it on a matter, I'm not going to say I make your proposals without criteria. All we're proposing today is in the report you ordered, so if it's unreasonably tell the report, but we don't... In any case, in order to try to move a parliamentary debate and not make this a succession of monologues, or by interpreting what we believe to be a parliamentary debate, I'm going to focus on a question of personnel, data, personnel data, and replacement rate to try to transfer it. Look, you say here it's a lie, it's a lie that there's 1,000 professionals less in primary care for ten years ago, there -- I wrote -- 594 more -- I don't know if it was the exact data you said --. Let's see if we're able to clarify at least where we disagree. 2009 budget, primary care, 9,610; 2021 budget, primary care, 8,535. You can say what you want, but the budgets say this: 9,610/8,535, we do one more, and that's it. Because it's important not to come here to say anything, because today it says 594 more and tomorrow it can say 17,000 more and another day it can say 37 million less. But that's what the budgets say. Then one may have a position of standing in favor of what one document says, another in favor of a strategy or another, but one cannot lie, because that's what budgets say. Of course, what interpretation do I make of that? That you're making a trap, I suppose knowing what it does, that it's telling the stable staff of any time you're interested in and now comparing it with any staff. I mean, you're comparing ten years ago's staff with someone who has a day's contract today, and it's not comparable, or is it comparable, Mrs. Friend? It's not comparable. If today -- you can't, you can't, you can't and there's probably no operational way to do it -- we'll suddenly withdraw all the staff that's not Sergas' statuarial, how much would we stay? Less than ten years ago. But it's done that it's normal, by the replacement rate, because it's not possible to say that the replacement rate prevents hiring more and then to say that there's more people hired, because if there's more people hired in a stable way now legally it's illegal, working, that's what I'm telling you, working. But working means, and that's what we always defend, that they're often working on hourly and dayly contracts, and it can't be, because those hourly and dayly contracts don't have to touch anything at the replenishment rate, and now I'm going to that, they can be instead of days, it can be a year or a year and a half. It would be possible, but it's not the same chance one year as one day, and you account for one day's contracts and equip them with professionals who have been in the system for 40 years, and that's cheating, that gives him the rounds he wants, he gets me whatever he wants, that's cheating. There's no other way to do this. The replenishment rate, you guys, that they kept and increased the replacement rate to the point that it never increased in this country, and they kept it there for years and now they're asking you to retire, and we're in favour of you withdrawing. You know it's not easy, but you know we're defending him. I also tell you, the replacement rate has already been put to the vote in the reconstruction committee in the Congress of Members and you voted against it. And you know that, Mrs. Friend, you voted against, and you know that in the general government budget debate they may have amended. Did they make any amendments about this? No, no, no, no. So don't cheat. You come here to say some things to blame, but then you don't work in that sense, they didn't present those amendments, they didn't vote in favor, they didn't put it down, they didn't eliminate it when you ruled; it's more, it's increased than nobody.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u113	So don't cheat, because if we cheat, the debates are useless, and we don't want that, just like you do. So we're going to try to debate things, even if it's to try to argue that we disagree for another day, but don't cheat, because you know you're cheating, and it's a little sad to argue with someone who knows you're lying, especially not because of the debate that impoverishes you, but because you're probably also making sense that you're doing a depleting debate and you don't deserve it either the House or you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the demand from the Galician Government to the central government for the public intervention of the Alcoa factory, in San Cibrao
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u115	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of her colleague Patricia Otero Rodríguez, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of amendmentThe decisive part of the initiative should be replaced by the following text:"The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to join the Ministry of Industry, the Alcohol Business Committee and the trade unions to formulate a unified roadmap towards the meeting which the Minister of Industry will hold in close proximity with officials of the aluminium multinationals in Pittsburg to unlock the process of selling the factory."]] Mr. Fernandez Alfonso has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u116	Good day again. In June 2020, over a year ago, Alcoa confirmed what we all had in mind: formally summoning the company committee from the San Cibrao plant to inform them of its intention to carry out an ERE. From that moment on, from minute one, both the BNG and the entire region of the Navy, we had made it clear that the solution was going through a public intervention. Very clear. There were three weight reasons, three very obvious reasons. The first one, because, as is said in the financial argot, Alcoa San Cibrao was too big to drop it. The region of the Navy and the province of Lugo cannot afford to disappear from this factory with everything it represents in direct, indirect, induced jobs and all the economic flows it feeds. The second, because it's a strategic production -- that is, there's not only demand for its product, but it's fundamental to the whole economy to ensure that that demand is met. Today it's in the press that three big Greek companies in the Alcoa aluminium industry expand their business and their facilities. And third, the example of the Crown and Gijón. No one wanted, neither the unions, nor the staff, no one in the Navy was willing to shut down a conflict that could mean the survival of a whole territory. Three weight reasons, three unanimously shared reasons. The solution for the Alcoa plant in the Navy had to guarantee the future of activity, the future of employment and, therefore, the future of the entire region. And the only way to ensure that security, to clear out the unknowns and fears, is to involve real governments. Not only on the negotiating table as mediators or facilitators, but as participants and guarantors of the future. Sepi's entry is the only viable solution, the only real, the only one that doesn't fake the conflict, the only one that doesn't leave in the air the future of the region. Inexplicably, 400 days later we still have no solution for The Navy. The Government of the State, which has the leadership of Sepi, does not want to take the step. Some voices aim to defend the government's inaction by cariculating the organizations and the people we bet on by Sepi's intervention: that if we are communists, which is very easy to ask, but very difficult to govern and things like that. Arguments that everyone -- don't fool themselves -- everybody recognizes as arguments of bad payer, arguments of what they want to escape the problem. Or why? It's not so clear, at least in the Navy. Surely in Madrid there will be serious and profound reasons for state, very evident to those who live in the ministries, but here we remember perfectly that in Italy the Government intervened Alcoa plant in Portovesme to save it and put in place an industrial plan, and we know it is working today, and it was not a communist government. And we also remember perfectly that, when a company has the consideration of strategy, when it's too big to fall, even a minister so unsuspecting of being communist like Luis de Guindos is able to order an intervention and put a new direction forward. Here's Bankia's case. And that's what we need here: political will, clear decisions and solutions. Alcoa San Cibrao is a factory that depends on the entire region of the Navy and that exceeds any consideration of strategy, it's much more than that. It is the right of citizens and citizens to secure their future through their governments and institutions. This is the consideration that we all must do, whether we have the right or not to have public instruments, it's called government, it's called SEPI, for times of crisis like this to solve people's problems. We still remember how much money the governments committed to Alcoa in their day when they sold them factories. There's a lot of investment in these factories, there's a lot of stake in their future. And in the BNG we have clear rights, that we are not willing to be treated as second-class citizens, we have to make ourselves stand up and be respected. Since that first day, since that announcement from Alcoa, many initiatives have been promoted in favour of the public intervention of the factory. In this same Parliament, in the Congress of Members, in the Lugo Parliament and in all the municipalities of the region, the unanimous votes are always in favour. That's why it is even more inexplicable that the Government of the State may have decided to refuse an intervention by Sepi which is being claimed unanimously. Even more so when the events that have taken place in the Coruña and Gijón factories, they only confirm the worst predictions. Right now, in the light of these events, when this public intervention seems most necessary to scare ghosts and fears, the state government's refusal is like a cry of cold water. We don't deserve this. The factory staff and the Marines don't deserve this deal. The government should have been very aware, more than anyone, that, if it were not for the brave and supportive position of the factory staff and the people of the Navy, today the factory would be closed. The conviction and unity that they have shown and maintained for 400 days is not seen every day. Such is the evidence that your struggle is necessary, such is the evidence that the future of the factory and the region go hand in hand. The factory staff and the neighbors and neighbors of the Navy have been and are aware of the circumstances. We cannot now allow the Government of the State to take over the solution and leave a whole region. The Government must be giving solutions, not tying up, it must be ensuring the future of activity, the future of employment and the future of the region. The labour reform approved by the People's Party and the current government keeps vigouring an ERE against a large company like Alcoa is an even more disproportionate struggle than David's against Goliath. The Navy won the first battle thanks to their self-responsibility for their future, setting an example of dignity and courage. This is not the first time that the Greek people have to self-responsibility and self-responsibility of their problems alone. They're in the memory of everyone and all the images of people taking their hats with their hands when the black tide of the Prestige, or the images of people shutting down the fires that surrounded their houses with everything they had at hand. There are still battles to give, perhaps the most complex; ensuring the future of the factory, the jobs and the region is a struggle in which we must have the governments on our side, it's not an option, it's their obligation. That is why the BNG calls for a new manifestation of political will in favour of a definitive and unequivocal solution to the San Cibrao factory, a solution that must be taken by the intervention of SEPI. We hope to have the support of all the House's groups. Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Alfonzo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u118	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I'm very sorry and I'm deeply sorry -- believe me, spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block --, I'm deeply sorry that BNG bought the speech to Alcoa, and well, it's just that BNG matches the People's Party, and it matches exactly those letters that send Álvaro Dorado. They're doing both the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Party, the dirty work of Alcoa. Because of course what can't be obvious is that, when I referred to the spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block, the unity of these workers and that village had, of course, first managed to defeat Alcoa in that employment regulation file, I agree that the unit of the workers was fundamental, that the role of the legal representatives of the workers was fundamental, but from then on to take down an ERE were also fundamental the roles of the administrations, and I say that of the Galician Board and that of the Ministry of Industry itself, with those legal reports also in order to be able to take down the ERE. That's why I say it's essential now to keep that unit between the company committee, between the different administrations, the Galician Union and the central government. Of course, as it came out of last week's meeting, right? That's when we said we're marking a roadmap so that the minister at that meeting that he's going to have next in Pittsburgh -- because if it was worth Rajoy's meeting in Pittsburgh earlier, it's also worth that King Maroto meets too -- and that he has to deal with that position, that he has to be consensual, as he can't be otherwise, with the company committee and, of course, with the Board of Galicia and with the Ministry of Industry, because I think that right now is the fundamental thing. And I am deeply sorry that they are all uniquely and exclusively for an intervention. Now I am also greatly surprised at the position of the People's Party, which in some cases even against the criteria or the position of the Galician Union itself, adopting pros Soviet positions, adopt the position of a total interventionism of the economy. But incredible, incredible that in our region, there were other companies that also closed, that there were other companies that are also going through difficulties, at the moment there is no demand for the intervention of these companies. And I've been talking about Ecar in Mondoñedo for years, I can talk about Hermida Furniture in Lourenzá or the Coasts in Alfoz. So there are first-class workers and second-class workers for the People's Party itself. So I think now is the time to re-show that unit to soon overthrow Alcoa. It is true that the Government made the offer via SEPI in September 2020, but it must also be said that at that time there was a negotiation with Alcoa that is not there, at that time there was only one buyer and now there are six. So the question is very different and it was the central government itself that offered the intervention of SEPI. So the situation is very different because, of course, you who now buy the argument completely from Alcoa, I want to raise a question. Do you have the security -- lnzoa to the BNG and the People's Party -- are you sure that Alcoa wants to sell right now? I'm asking, because you're getting big profits. Do you want to sell Alcoa right now? You believe with your feet what Álvaro Dorado says in his letters and I deeply regret that both the BNG and the People's Party do their dirty work to the multinational Alcoa. The truth is that it gives me a lot more pity on the Galego Nationalist Block; we already know that the People's Party is an expert in political opportunism, they defend the position of multinational Alcoa, and they soon give their backs to the workers and workers of Alcoa, and of course to the neighbors and neighbors of the Navy and, therefore, to those of the whole province of Lugo. Because I find it unusual that Alcoa, who didn't want to sell in September, now asks for intervention via Sepi and both the People's Party and the Nationalist Block Galego buys him that speech. I say we don't have to stick everything to one possibility, we're sticking everything together to the possibility of saving Alcoa to the intervention, we're putting... you put everything... you put all... you put all the money on that one solution, I say you have to explore different possibilities and so it also left the meeting that was held last week. Of course, the People's Party and the People's Party in the province of Lugo are used to us, is that he's more concerned about the interests of Alcoa, Alcoa, than about the workers and his family. And, of course, the People's Party in Galicia, and particularly in Lugo, are giving these workers their backs. It's true, the PSOE government, the Minister of Industry has since been leading these negotiations, that's the one that's convening the last multilateral tables and that's the one that's going to Pittsburgh, let's wait with that consensual roadmap to try to unlock the sale of Alcoa. And we from the Socialist Party have always been with the workers, not since June 2018, before in the Navy there have been many demonstrations -- which, by the way, the People's Party doesn't see them -- and it's true that other political parties were there. So, I think it's time to put partisan interests aside, it's time to leave political opportunism aside and work together to find that it will be guaranteed from the very beginning the maintenance of those jobs. It's the moment of politics with capital letters, commitment and facts, not of the people who have become used to us by the People's Party. They didn't do anything when they were ruling in Madrid, now they're all in a hurry, now it's all giving lessons from the future of industry in Galicia. Well, you might as well begin, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party's bench, urging the Galician Union, of course, to assume its competences in industrial policy, as our Statute of Self-Government recognizes, which you seem to have no knowledge or interest in reading it. So we tabled this amendment in the sense that it also came out at last week's meeting between the works council, between trade unions, between the Gounta de Galicia and between the central government itself where the Minister of Industry was. And the amendment says: "The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Council, together with the Ministry of Industry, the Alcoa Business Committee and trade unions, to formulate a unified roadmap towards the meeting that the Minister of Industry will hold in close proximity with representatives of the aluminium multinational in Pittsburgh to unlock the sale process." I think that's what we should focus our efforts on, believe me, and so I'm sure that the Central Government will not soon abandon the workers and the workers of Alcoa, and that, if that intervention is necessary, that triangulation via SEPI, then the mechanism will be sought so that this intervention or that triangulation will be done in the legal way. I think it's time to set a common position, and I say it's best to fix a common position, because we've seen that when we go together it's the only way to defeat Alcoa, which is the enemy, because he doesn't want to sell. He's turning the tortilla around, but he doesn't want to sell. You bought him the argument that they're determined to sell, and we see that every time Alcoa invents an excuse, we've been at least for many years with this problem, but at least since they presented the employment regulation file. At that time, in September 2020, he was offered an offer and Alcoa didn't want it. Now that there are six possible buyers, it's when Alcoa makes this demand that I regret, I insist again, deep enough that the Galician Nationalist Block buy that speech. It was also said that the Government had committed itself to entering Sepi, that is what it offered in September 2020, but that is why it is circulating a document which is not true that it has assigned the Central Government. We respect logically what the company committee signed with Alcoa, but that document is not signed by the Central Government. So, I repeat, we must not do the dirty work of Alcoa. Alcoa has to negotiate seriously because now I want to sell, then I don't want to sell, first I don't care about SEPI, now I want to see SEPI, and that's turning the tortilla around, that's putting sticks on the wheels, because it's not clear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u120	...that Alcoa wants to sell. So -- and finished, Mr. President -- let's go back to the unit, look for that roadmap to mark the minister in that negotiation, in that conversation he's going to have in Pittsburgh, to unlock the future of Alcoa, to unlock the maintenance, the sale to make it easier for those jobs to be kept because, of course, those we are from the Navy know we're playing a lot. For my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Candia López has the floor:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u122	Thank you. Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. It is my responsibility to defend the pronouncement and defence of this matter by representing the Group of the People's Party, who only seeks to maintain jobs in the Navy and who continues to manufacture private aluminum in this region. I have already announced to the proponent our favourable vote, not only in the form, as could be today's debate, but especially at the bottom, which is in that work to conquer the two objectives I have cited. I'll try to be constructive throughout the debate because, you'll agree with me, those of us living in the Navy, I think we know, that the Alcoa workers are quite tired of many headlines, that there are facts, boring of many debates, that, as we said here, they end up with unanimous agreements, but that then they don't comply. I am going to reproduce, if I may, because I was there, I was still a provincial Member, because in a demonstration that took place, in particular on February 26, 2020, because there may be, although I very much agree with the arguments put forward by the BNG spokesman, there are certain dates and facts that I would like to point out. I'm going to circumscribe on that date, a very massive competition, quantitatively; they went into the Lugo Deputy, addressing the president of the Socialist Party of Lugo to the cry of socialists of pacotilla; Elena Candia didn't say so, nor did the Popular Group say so. But after listening to Mrs. Otero, besides having a negative and sad impact on me, I have only feelings of disbelief. You have to have, of course, a lot of courage to go back to your Town Hall, the Lugo Burela, and say what you said here today. I don't contextualize in the summer of 2020, I don't contextualise in the summer of 2020 because we all know why we got here, because we didn't have a price of competitive energy, because the megawatt between 13 and 17 was about 35 euros because from the 18 it started to fire, as the president did well in the morning intervention, reaching 80 euros. I mean, aluminium manufacturing wasn't sustainable. Manufacture of aluminium which, in line with all the circumstances of the vault and therefore also in the publication in the Official Gazette of the State, has ended up, as we all agree and defend, an essential activity, because then I will also clarify some companies that have mentioned Mrs Otero. We needed a stable legislative framework. What happened with the adoption of the Statute by the Socialist Party is an insult to democracy, people's intelligence and undoubtedly caused some prejudices that led us to this situation. Look, the People's Party doesn't say it, the Socialist Party said it, in fact, it's gone into itself. A draft of the Statute shall be submitted: "The PSOE shall include claims from the Alcoa Committee in the Electrointensive Statute". He included the allegations, but then he didn't listen. "Adriana Lastra assures that the Electrointensive Statute will give stability to Alcoa", April 17, 2019, with photo, visit Asturias. Well, we don't have to quote what happened to Coruña and Avilés. Reyes Maroto confirms that: "The Electrointensive Statute will arrive in time to save Alcoa", May 25, 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u123	Mrs. Otero, be quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u124	I'd rather read so they don't interpret that I'm changing reality. If there too, allow me the spokesman of the BNG, even though I agree in his defense, which I believe the Nationalist Block Galego here, and perhaps do it in the second round, it would be good to have really explained that you did business at his time to support President Sánchez, and I say it without accuracy, and I tell him why I really care, because his very loud voice on December 10, 2019 warns Sanchez: "If you want our vote, you have to give a solution to the electrointensives." Neither does Elena Candia. This is the context in a situation where, as I say, workers are frankly tired of political debates and tired of headlines. And now, indeed, they need to act. There's really an agreement and there's a solution that was worth everybody. Mrs. Otero says it's worth the Nationalist Block Galego and the People's Party. The Socialist Group in this House, in all the councils where these motions are discussed, votes in favour of that solution. I'm not going to go in and analyze whether they're asking for full nationalization, whether in the end with everyone's effort and work that once again and every time I have the opportunity to talk about this topic, I put into value the work and the surrender of the workers' representatives, of the families, who are in a struggle, in line with the BNG spokesman, with great generosity, really thinking about employment, the maintenance of employment in the Navy, and not exclusively in an account or a figure negotiated in a layoff. And that's the fruit of a great generosity, that they've suffered a lot of pressure and that, undoubtedly, we can't give up on them. Now, in theory, it was easy, there are companies interested in buying, and Mrs. Otero said, "What if Rajoy went to the United States, to Pittsburgh, why can't he be worth going to the ministry?" Mrs. Otero, I say, how was it before? As it hasn't happened before, if we have taken this situation since 2018 and Alcoa has announced that it will close and there has not been a member of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who I also say to you, it is important enough to have the president himself, as at his own time did Rajoy, assume the responsibility of giving a solution to a region, because, undoubtedly, it is not the thousand jobs or the 500 direct jobs and those that may be indirect, it is a region of a job, in addition, with a good level of purchasing and that generates a lot of wealth in the region. Look, in theory, I was focused, as I said. The solution was an interim intervention; Sepi, I'm not going to remind you here, because now as Abbalos is not, you pass through, you cut heads and it seems that the thing hasn't happened, but Sepi has had a role in recent times not very clear nor of course not anything to put into the Sánchez government curriculum in recent times. I don't know what the story's gonna end, but it's definitely there. I mean, Sepi knew how to act when it was needed. Well, I know that perhaps the airline was much more important than Alcoa, but you, the mayors of the Socialist Party in the Navy and the voters of the Socialist Party in the Navy have an obligation to transfer Pedro Sánchez that for the Alcoa Navy it is as important as that airline that concerns Abalos. I honestly think it's a lot more. We had this centered, and now it turns out that one morning, as it usually informs us, because I think it would be very important, and that confirms it in a very recurring way, because you say: lead the minister... If you still know that last week for some meetings to be convened, they had to convene a demonstration, and the protest coup announced the minister called the meeting. That was recurrent throughout this process. Looks like he's going to travel to Pittsburgh and the committee tells him: put together with the committee a written roadmap. Why don't you? Lack of transparency. And, of course, with everything that's going on, that you yourselves went to Alcoa and met with the workers and they said, don't worry, soon the status will come out, when they knew that, in addition, the status as it was going to work out nothing. So it's only natural that people don't trust the word, that the facts turn us in constantly, that's why they ask for documentation. Why don't you share with the whole unit of action that you quote? That I agree that it is the only way out of this crisis, so important that it is with unity, but to have unity there has to be loyalty among the people who sit on the same table, there has to be information. I can't be saying something on the table and out against it. Why is Sepi now where I say now says Diego? Why -- and I'm sending myself to this June 17, where in a surprising way, as I said, and from then on he was sad and worried even more -- announces he's retired from this process. You now say that Alcoa doesn't want to sell. I don't know, perhaps you have much more information, I don't undervalue it; man, of course, I don't agree with many of the barbarities he said and, honestly, believe me, I don't think you don't think them either. I think you're gonna step on Burela tomorrow and with some worker, if he reproduces his previous intervention, he won't defend her, he can't undoubtedly defend her. But, well, you do your role here, it's normal and I recognize it, in addition, that at this particular point it has a very complicated role. But let's go, let's get out what unites us, as they say. We are constantly looping, moving forward and taking a step back, moving forward and taking a step back. At the minute result, SEPI seems to have not confirmed that it will intervene, that when it was an agreement, that is what we bring here today, and that we reiterate here today. I transferred the favorable vote from my colleagues. I think we should do it and I think it's a guarantee. Obviously, to control Alcoa... and don't take offense -- you know -- who wants, but who can, to me in that respect will understand that you don't offend me. But there's no doubt that we need to control Alcoa -- Sepi, eh! --. Besides, we need to avoid making the same mistakes that were made in Coruña and Avilés.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u126	And entering Sepi for us is a guarantee. And I'm asking you these two requests: to continue Sepi, which is practically what makes the agreement. And a reflection that certainly moves me to worry: why have the workers left at the last concentrations? Why is there no member of the Socialist Party? I was at the 12th protest. Yes, I was... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u128	...in the manifestations of the 12 and don't miss the truth, because you said it several times and don't miss the truth, because that's much more serious than I was saying, but good. Why does the Socialist Party abandon demonstrations? It's a request to those mayors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u130	Look, in less than two years we're going to ask for the trust of neighbours and neighbours, I think a mayor of the Socialist Party has a lot of power... well, also the Block, of course, that tomorrow announces to the president of the MP who leaves confidence in the Deputy of Place, because undoubtedly everyone would all get very nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u131	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u132	So we use all the mechanisms that we have within our reach, we continue to build the unit and leave much theatre, Mrs. Otero,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u133	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u134	...that the Navy deserves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u135	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u136	Very good again. We must have the courage to come and defend a government-like flyer and accuse the rest of us of buying Alcoa's speech. Starting around, it's hard to drive. [[Applause]] Very briefly, ladies and gentlemen. We are not going to accept the Socialist Party's amendment because, as I said, what we want with this initiative is an unequivocal statement in favour of intervention. And we have no guarantee, but none of us have just heard here, that the position that the minister takes to Pittsburgh is this. A unanimous position expressed again and again in all representative institutions: councils, MEPs, the German Parliament and the Congress of Members. And a position still ratified at the workers' and workers' meeting on Monday. We honestly believe that a new demonstration in this regard in favour of intervention is very necessary and will be the best evidence, the best proof of what is the position in Galicia and the Navy and what the position of the Government of the State in this respect. We're due to intervention, yes, although it's temporary to avoid problems caused by intermediate and bankrupt solutions already tested at the factories of the Coruña and Gijón. We're talking about this because it's the solution that is producing fruit in Italy in the face of a problem that is exactly the same company. We are under intervention because it is the government's obligation to protect the investment and public resources delivered to the various companies that have been owned by the marine factories and that today legitimately the factory staff and the neighbors and neighbors of the Navy consider themselves. We're through the intervention because it's a strategic company and because a whole region depends on it. And finally, we're through the intervention because the Greeks and the Greeks also have the right to governments being involved in solving our problems. With our money we rescue banks and highways, with our money we will pay the funds that come from the European Union, so we believe that we have every right in the world, at least as much as possible, to which governments use public instruments and resources in solving our problems. [[Applause]] It doesn't sound good that the minister and the PSOE in this House now do as if I didn't know what the unanimous position -- I insist -- of all the representative institutions and the factory staff. It doesn't sound good that the minister and you now in this House call to consensualize a roadmap as if it wasn't already clear what that roadmap should be. That is why we feel that this unanimous demonstration of the German Parliament is very necessary. The arguments are known, we took care that we shared; 400 days give a lot, especially to clarify concepts and to place each one where it belongs. We call on the Government of the State to carry out the unanimous and democratically expressed will in favour of intervention. We call the Government of the State where it belongs. And it ended by urging the Galician Union to promote a new competitive framework for Galicia. The position of Junta in this case, as in others, is read Barreras, Endesa or Navantia, read Law from back, read distribution of funds, is to complain about what it does or ceases to do the Government of the State, especially when it governs the PSOE, but never under any concept claims with all the consequences of solving that lack of competence. Never a demand to improve the field of competence and funding rules. That's why, because of this acryptically assume what comes, what they tell us, that the Galician Bee has no political weight to be valued and respected on the state stage. A lack, a surrender always safe and always predictable that we all pay and all, Welsh and Welsh. So we call the minister to meet our demands, those of the Navy and those of the factory staff; and we also call all the political forces and the Greek people to note how a minister can boot up for Pittsburgh carrying an unconsensual errand with no one here in Galicia. We need political power in Galicia to mark our own roadmap and to execute it without interference by our own voice. And we need new funding rules that provide us with the ability to push those policies and decisions that we consider strategic or critical. Sovereignty goes from these things, we need sovereignty to face what comes as best suited to us. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Let's move on to the next initiative. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Union of Galicia to condition the new port concession of the facilities of the former Vulcan to its use for shipbuilding or ship repair
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u138	There were no amendments to this initiative and, in order to formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs González Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u139	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all and to all. 5,700. These are the industrial jobs that according to the survey of active population were destroyed in Vigo in the last year; 7,000 workers and workers less since 2009. Vigo is going through a deep industrial crisis with activities, such as the naval sector, at a point limit. In this situation it is totally unjustifiable the passivity and inaction of the German Government. In 12 years of the People's Party's Government was unable -- we don't want to think that he didn't want to put in place an industrial plan either for Galicia, for Vigo, or for the naval sector. As a result, we have a naval sector that has lost weight in the world market and in the state. In 2020 we lost the leadership of the naval activity in the state in favour of Asturias, which exceeded us both in signed contracts and in weighted activity. In Vigo this crisis of the naval sector has two main protagonists, Barreras and Vulcano, and many secondary players: auxiliary industry, workers and workers, the country's own naval sector, etc. We knew yesterday that Sepi denied the funding it had requested Barreras. Likely, if you do what Mr. Conde told us, the councillor, in this Parliament, will not receive help from the Galician Council, since he was conditional on granting that state aid. Today we continue with news in the press about very worrisome barriers, some news that makes all the alarms jump. They talk about winding up, pre-competition, ERTE and dismissal from the board of directors of the yard. But the counsellor's statements still worry more. It's still going to get profiled, it's still not facing the problems and it's just going to repeat the same litany as ever, the only way out is for Barreras to put on the table a plan of viability, without providing any solution for a strategic company for Vigo and its county. BNG has been asking for months to face this crisis. The solution for Barreras is not to continue to fill the pockets of private shareholders with public money, without control over the use of money and without guarantees that it is invested and managed well. BNG has been demanding the public intervention of Barreras for months to guarantee the future of the shipyard and shipbuilding in the Vigo River. Because the disappearance of Barreras will drag many auxiliary companies and destroy many jobs and jobs. Active policies to support the sector are needed to stabilize the workload and maintain employment. Policies that must come from the hands of the German Government which has competence in industry. Is President Feijóo and Counsellor Francisco Conde expecting a miracle to occur that solves the Barreras crisis and the naval sector? At the BNG we don't believe much in miracles, we believe in work and in the defense of the interests of Galician and Greek. It is time for courageous and determined policies that aim at a strategic sector for Galicia and Vigo. The Galician Union has to take the lead in the industrial strategy for the Vigue and the Galician naval sector, it has to convene the naval table and design a roadmap to recover the weight that the Welsh naval construction has had on the world market until a very short time ago. In the case of Vulcan, the ball is on the roof of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. The future of this centenary yard depends on the representatives who have both parties on the Board of Directors of the Port of Vigo. Vulcan has crossed, as we have often spoken in this Parliament, a competitive liquidation procedure that ended with the purchase of the yard by South Marina, becoming known as San Enrique. During the entire competitive process of the production unit, the Harbour Authority of Vigo, then chaired by Enrique López Veiga, developed an intense administrative and legal offensive with the objective of avoiding the continuation of the shipbuilding and repair activity on the Teis lands, and destined them, as stated on some occasion, to other uses, specifically those referred to in the container logistics. Throughout the process in Vigo, trade union organizations, business organizations and civil society have shown their refusal to use anything other than naval activity in Vulcan installations, since this yard, along with Barriers, is fundamental to the Vigilian naval industry. Vulcan had the concession of the port domain by the year 2027, which is essential for the development of the work of the yard, since it represents 40 % of the facilities and includes access to the water sheet. The appointment of Jesus Vázquez Almuínña as president of the Harbour Authority opens a new opportunity to prevent the disappearance of the yard, but the first decisions made by the new president are not very reassuring. At the end of April, the record of the former Vulcan's administrative termination, which was finally approved by the Board of Directors of the Port on 25 June, was still able to maintain the concession until 2027 and thus facilitate the viability of the new owners' project. Moreover, although Vázquez Almuína declared in April not to rule out the possibility of a temporary authorisation allowing the continuation of the yard's activity, the reality is that it is paralyzing this activity by preventing the use of the water sheet. On June 18 the Harbour Authority of Vigo did not allow the entry of the Sanco Sea, the NGO Open Arms, into the Teis yard for its repair even though the Maritime Captain had already granted permission. The yard may hardly be able to recover its activity and they can hardly return to work the people who are in their home without income, in a precarious situation, because they have exhausted their unemployment benefits, if the use of the facilities is not allowed, even if it is temporary until the new concession. The situation of the yard is critical, the workers are asking for the support of all political parties, institutions, the Government of the State, the board of Galicia and the Vigo Council and the collectives and the civil society of Vigo to save the yard. But the solution is in their hands, in the hands of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. You're the ones who have representatives on the Vigo Port Board of Directors, you are the ones who vote on the Vigo Port of Directors Board, you are the ones who make the decisions in Vigo Port. They allow the grades of Teis to have ships again and the families that depend on the work of the yard have their future guaranteed. Vigo is much more than lights and shelters. Vigo is much more than propaganda and inauguration policies. Vigo is an industrial city that wants to make cars and build boats, which wants to work for our youth that prevents them from having to emigrate. The vicars and the vicars need the Vigo Council and the Galician Union to leave their partisan struggles in which Vigo is the only one who loses and works hand over the city and the vicars and the vicars. The People's Party and the Socialist Party have the opportunity to stand on the side of the city of Vigo, industry and employment. They support this initiative and position themselves, and vote on the Vigo Harbour Board of Directors so that the competition for the harbour concession of the former Vulcan shipyard is conditional on the use for the construction and repair of ships, and that the use of the water sheet is permitted, while this contest is not resolved, to the San Enrique yard so that it can continue its activity and that the staff who are unemployed can re-enter their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. González. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the floor of Mrs Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u141	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all of you. The truth is that it costs and it's worth saving, it really hurts to talk about Vulcano in the past, a yard like Vulcano. That first, because here today is about putting names and names, and regretting that this morning the president of the Galician Union, when they were asking him about the industrial crisis, the naval sector, particularly by Vigo and Vulcan and Barreras, as they have been doing in recent years, it seems that Vigo's naval sector no longer exists. When we speak in the debate of the Naval state of autonomy, we always throw balloons out, we don't talk about our competences, and for years now it's not obviously interesting to talk about Barreras or talk about this Vulcan case. Because there's news every day, even today, said the comrade, we have these concerns about the cessation of the entire Barrier Management Board. Now that great injected capital that brought in the hand with red carpet the Mexican investors of Pemex; I remember going to that post at the scene, as it also comes out in the press that is among the nine most indebted companies in the world, in addition to the corruption cases we all know. And he said we have to talk about names and surnames, because to talk about the naval sector of this country, at the state level and even internationally, is to talk about the vicar sector, and it's to talk about Vulcano and it's to talk about Barreras as well. And today we're going to talk about Vulcan and really with all the respect for the people, the 70 families that are at home right now, after receiving the deceptions, when it was said that maybe it was a controlled liquidation because there were investors. I told Junta that there were several investors and they were left with nothing, they're at home right now. So I encourage all of us to talk about Vulcan today. And he said by names and names, when we talk about the naval sector and the competences of the Galician Union in industry in this Statute of autonomy. And speaking of names and surnames, and of a yard, he said, centenary, we spoke of 1919 when today's name is San Enrique again, but that was a man named Enrique, who, together with a person, a Belgian engineer who was very well known in Vigo, although he was Belgian, called the Frenchman, set up a first workshop, and why is it important that first workshop? Because it was a repair and construction workshop of steam boilers for the railway industry and for the Welsh fishing fleet, which from there was all that good to do and that trajectory made still today the best professional boilers internationally because they are the Calderiers of Vigo metal. Many unfortunately had to emigrate these years. Well it's only ten years after they create that construction workshop, these steam boilers, because they grow so much the business that it's when they reach that concession on the beach of Espineiro, in Teis, where they build a much bigger workshop and a locker, which has more than 750 direct workers, so until the 1980s. And, Mrs. Egerique, I'm not going to make a story, but why? Because just like Mr. López Veiga, who you put in front of the Harbour Authority, they would have to remind you, or the Galician Union, when you encourage a controlled settlement, the 100 years of Vulcan history, because today we have to talk about Vulcan history in the past. [[Applause]] A yard that in the year 86, as you know, we can also tell Mr. López Veiga, the U.S., in this case, Fernando Santodomingo, the ship engineer, with a credit of 1 billion pesetas for their viability linked to taking surpluses from other companies, such as the old Ascon. Well, in all this time Vulcan overcomes a civil war, the naval conversion, various creditors' contests, I will also appoint the fee read, of course, yes, in honor of the truth, but because you every time you talk about Vulcan will speak of the tax read today too, but it overcomes the civil war, a war, naval conversion, creditors' contests, the purchase and then the break of a yard like that of Juliana, various contests, employment regulation files. But do you know what workers and workers have never done? -- and let's talk in masculine because it's a masculinized fundamentalist sector -- : they never stopped giving up and not finishing an order. Never, even now when they're encouraged to go to a controlled settlement and Junta tells them that there are investors, even with mistrust after the months they've suffered, the last ship is over. And now where are they? At your house. And what are they asking? Indeed, guarantees and no more lies, because you really need to have a coldness to maintain the belligerence that Mr. Enrique López Veiga had against the naval repair and construction activity, against the old Vulcan and his workers, the remaining 70, it must be very cold to be be be betting after these hundred years that he was reviewing history because it's important to put containers there. We must have a cold and meaningful coldness from this Government of the Unity of Galicia which has set itself from the first place not only of profile, as I said, but at the end of the day by deceiving the workers. [[Applause]] A belligerence that even leads on a legal level. There were several investors not one, said the Galician Board, tell the company committee that everyone is calm. He gets into Vulcan liquidation and there's none. It deals with and it's up to KPMG to find investors as well, but they don't show up, but when one appears, not by the hand of the Galician Union, of course, you have to come to the court of the Pontevedra Mercantil telling Mr. López Veiga that the productive unit has to be linked to the concession to keep the activity and the jobs there. A judge has to come and tell us this. And now it seems that we lower the tone, the new president of the Harbour Authority, Mr. Vázquez Almuña, lowers the tone, but a few days ago the Southern Navy company has a meeting in the Harbour Authority, everything is very nice and what you find is also a small letter, because what you are proposing now is talking to you in that temporary concession is reducing space and with less space than Vulcan had to charge more fees than Vulcan paid. That's the bet we have on the naval sector with Vigo's name and surnames. Put containers and make an estimated fill of between 80 million square meters and 250 million square meters, and containers where more than 1,000 workers have worked. That's the bet the Galician Union has. So today they tell those 70 families, but also the dozens that are stopped in the auxiliary industry, what are the plans. Obviously, the Socialist Party is committed to a long-term concession that blinds shipbuilding and ship repair like all life on those lands, on that ancient beach of Espineiro. Of course I do, of course I do, and if you do, in addition, quickly. Here we have to put the cards on the table, but let's talk about the tax read and Pedro Sánchez; as we say to them, the 70 families, as we say to them, Mrs. Egerique. So, as we said, they're more than 5,000 workers, the truth is they're dancing the numbers because it's difficult, but he also said Mr. Tellado that he had to go out the street for a walk. To finish, I want to encourage you to go around and not through a neighborhood, but I'm going to say two neighborhoods, through Bouzas and Teis, because Guixar, because a few years ago he was really impressed, he was impressed to go through there at seven o'clock or three o'clock; and I say at three o'clock or seven o'clock because historically metal and naval workers worked eight hours in the morning and three o'clock in the evening, they went out at seven o'clock, with their dirty backs, the broken Fridays; but those extra hives that were better paid did good lack, good account of them were given to the families of the shipbuilding sector, and I know what I'm talking about, at the end of month. And trade too, trade lived when the naval was, unfortunately, what it was and what it is no longer. The truth is, he was impressed to put himself in Guixar and see all those workers out and now see Vulcan closed, he was saying and talking in the past is something that hurts, it has to hurt. So, let's talk about the naval, let's talk about the Vigue and I encourage the advisor of Industry and the president of Junta Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who hasn't wanted to say that name for years, it seems, of the shipyard of Barreras and Vulcano, who comes here and talks about the naval sector, namely, because to speak about the naval sector, allow me, as we speak about the naval sector at European or Spanish level, is to talk about the naval sector of Vigo and talk about Vulcano and talk about Barreras. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u143	Good morning. Thank you, President. I will begin by making notes to Mrs. Otero's intervention, which is the only one who spoke in the past of Vulcan, Mrs. González Iglesias, I intend to speak of the future in Vulcan. History is written, of course, we all know the attachment and nostalgia that Vulcan gives us in the Teis Quarter and in Bichita the importance for all families, we all know it at all. I think Enrique López Veiga was much better than the two of us, because he was a fishing advisor, a vibe who worked a lot for the ship. There is none, I think, any factor, any question that put on the table that the People's Parliamentary Group had not worked for and in favour of the naval sector; that the chairman of the board Alberto Núñez Feijó had not worked for the naval sector; and that you remember, that you will certainly know also very well because he was there at Vigo, when the grades were empty in 2012, when a policy of the Galician Union was true and true and with millions of euros on top of the table was that there was a load of work on the steps of the Vigo naval. Like the policy of the Galician Group of the People's Party, both the People's Party at the national level and the People's Party of Galicia, it is in favour of the naval, the private sector and the public sector of the naval, because we must also think of Navantia, do not forget that we are in the defense of all the Greeks and, like the three of us, we must defend the naval sector here and not talk about nostalgia and history, because we are Members and we have a responsibility, and we are trying to find a solution for Vulcan that now has some light at the end of the tunnel, Mrs. Otero. [[Applause]] Actually, going to the intervention, because this comes to the thread of some of the debates we've already had, you say that I'm always talking about the tax lease, I didn't mean to talk about the tax lease today. Because today's tax lease doesn't come to mind, you took out the collation really because it was Almunia, a socialist, which put the tax lease in Vigo and made a very big zannadilla to the naval sector and a lot of damage, and thanks also to the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, the tax lease was exempt from the taxes and payments of the naval sector. In November 2020, we discussed in Commission 6.a, Mrs González Iglesias, a PNL on Vulcan, which you presented yourself, with a number of points that we could not approve. So I explained why I didn't do it and then I explained it, so do I now. We explained our argument, which is always the same, has always been the same, and time gives us some reason, because you were asking the Board for a series of dubious legal acts at that time. A little more than an intervention to the Vigo Harbour Board of Directors, which has its independence and legitimacy to make decisions. They asked to comply with the decision of the Provincial Court and to withdraw or give up the procedure imposed on the Court of Conflict, skipping the State Counsel's own reports. As you will understand, we wouldn't support that because it's always about the law. And I myself in the debate told you to support the shipbuilding and employment sector, especially employment, yes, but not interventionism. And you know the policy of supporting the naval sector of the People's Party and the Galician Union. Work is fundamental in all companies. Mrs. Otero spoke earlier and questioned workers or other workers, whether interventionism or not. I think the Socialist Party, as always, is lost and depending on which company you talk about or has another speech. We always have the same thing. So, in November, the PSdeG was sailing and still sailing, as always, I saw that Mrs. Otero now has no solution for Vulcan. You also have a commitment as a member of the Socialist Party, and the Government of Spain has a commitment that is not in any case fulfilling the naval sector in Vigo. Look, I was saying one thing in every place. The then government delegate, then Javier Losada, said yes, that he had to respect what the Harbour Authority said. The members of the committee doubted it, they did not know very well what to say. The mayor of Vigo and the delegate of the Free Zone did not attend the Board of Directors because they did not want to get wet on this subject. So, a show, a spook and a lack of commitment by the Socialist Party to the naval sector and, as you have just checked, lately with SEPI. We and the Galician Union, and the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party at Vigo, which I think there is no doubt, have always been in the same place, we've always been supporting the workers. And then we had a position that was: defense of the naval sector always, without simplifying or reducing the debate to one or two yards, although it's true that Barreras and Vulcan are fundamental in Vigo, he didn't appoint Armón, Rodman, Cardama, Freire... they work, they're private shipyards that work. I'd also like to put all companies in the shipbuilding industry that work, because the management of a yard is also a complicated fact and we as a People's Party and how we're not going to intervene. Now, help has always lent itself, both to the shipyards and to the auxiliaries, liquidally so that they always keep the jobs aside from those who are in front of every yard. And then we also said that we had to wait for the ruling of the Jurisdiction Court of Conflict to determine the procedure to be followed in relation to the granting of the land of the extinct Vulcan. And we had that debate in November, I remember a debate vehemently and also to expose the arguments on the table. And if it's true that sometimes it's hard to vote against some things, but we say no to intervention and respect legal times. What happened next? In April, the press headlines report in the newspapers and say, "The Court of Conflicts is to grant Vulcan and gives the reason to the Port of Vigo, which is like giving reason to the state lawyer." I'm not going to say here neither parties nor parties, so he was President Enrique López Veiga and what he did was follow the reports of the State Counsel and the votes of the Board of Directors, which has legitimacy and independence to make decisions. Today in this LNP you do the same thing again, but in the situation we are now in. On the one hand, they call for the granting of the Vigo Port to blind its activity to naval action and naval activity, totally in agreement, and besides that is already underway; we agree within the law that there is naval activity in Vulcano and that Vulcano is always Vulcano, of course, with these times and before the Civil War and after the Civil War and in the twentieth century as well. I wish there could be work there in many years! And, on the other hand, you ask to interfere again with the actions of the Harbour Authority without knowing the depth, which is a little of the doubt we have here, how it should act according to the law. The intention, the will on our part is that you continue to work, but you need to know how it is done, if you can afford it without more, because you put it in the text: "To ask the Harbour Authority to allow the use of the water sheet until the contest is resolved." But that has a series of nuances and a series of demands that I think it's also appropriate to clarify. The most important thing -- I insist -- and you know it, Mrs. González Iglesias, she told you because she talked about the future of Vulcan; the Socialist Party lady, Mrs. Otero, spoke about the past and nostalgia, but she didn't put any solution on the table. I insist that the most important thing, aside from one company or another, is to keep the job. Together has always bet on keeping the job, and when a yard is missing, as I said before, it has always been to help auxiliary companies, to keep the jobs in Vigo and its territory, which at the bottom and the end is that. Because the vigue reality and the nostalgia we can have with Vulcan is that really around the naval sector has grown the city. And we certainly have that character too because that naval sector gave character to the city, and we need people to devote themselves to the work and industry that has to do with the sea. And the naval is a fundamental point in Galicia and Vigo, and you don't doubt that this parliamentary group is always supporting that sector. That's unquestionable. Where are we now and where are we going with reference to Vulcan? A series of precisions, as I said. First of all, the Board of Directors of the Port Authority of Vigo approved at your last meeting, as you said on June 25, the final extinction of Vulcan, which was in 2009. He's currently working on drafting the set of conditions that will refuse the competition for the new concession. Third, within an approximate period of two months, the new plea will be removed. And that new contest will value a solid project oriented to shipbuilding and repair, which generates employment and reactivates Vigo's economy and its metropolitan area. That's why point 1 is unquestionable, because that's already armoured by the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority. What then? Until the new concession can be assessed, which could take effect within 6 or 8 months, current owners of the San Enrique shipyard may submit an application for provisional authorization to continue using the public harbour area, both the water sheet and the land area. And so, in that case, when the request is made, since Mr Vázquez Almuña, the current president of the port is in contact with both the owners of the yard and the workers, that authorization will be studied and, if the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority assesses it and meets the necessary requirements, that work will be done. That's why I say it's the punctuation and the nuance of the second point, because at the bottom of the matter we agree. We are the People's Parliamentary Group, you are the Galician Nationalist Block and the Governing Council itself and the Port President. Now, we have to point out that for them to use that water sheet and that port area right now, they have to submit that application and they have to be validated by the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority. Look, I told you in November and I'll tell you here in all sincerity, with a letter of services full of truth and results, Mrs. Otero, with a Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, industrial advisors who brought work and oxygen to Vigo filling the grades. With a mayor of Vigo who went completely profiled the naval sector, who only did well to declare a person not grateful to Almunia in a municipal plenary, because he put the tax read on the table and realized the damage he had done. So with future projects of the Galician Research-oriented Union, the R & D+i, the new technologies, really by the Union to the naval sector. I said I'm very important Vulcan right now and I told you in November, it's important that we all work in the same direction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u144	You have to finish, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u145	So today it's the same thing, it's an important thing, to avoid unnecessary noise and friction; we can have debate, but here are already steps given that there were not in November, Mrs González Churches. We're going to support this initiative and Vulcan, if we follow the policies that have to be done, if the deadlines are met, if we all intend to have naval work in Vulcan, there will be work again in Vulcan. Now I ask you, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u147	...González Churches, which avoid unnecessary noise and friction. And, Mrs. Otero, I think you should talk about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u149	...future Vulcan and not from the past as he spoke in all his intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u150	By the Galego Nationalist Block, author of the non-law proposition, Mrs. González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u151	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Egerique, nothing further than the intention of the BNG than to interfere, whenever something is done, eh! And I always hear about the industrial policies of the Vigo Town Hall, I who, like many of us here, are mothers and parents of teenage children, come to my head -- in addition I have three, I have everything -- this poor student son who comes up with a suspension at home always because of the teacher's anger. Oh, or he ate the dog's notes and couldn't study enough for the exam. We're going to see... the People's Party is doing patch politics and fixing the problems they're already facing... i.e., what I was saying before, putting money when companies are in a crisis situation. [[Applause]] There is no industrial plan for the naval sector of Vigo or Galicia for 12 years that has been complaining and that has claimed the cluster that the People's Party is ruling. And that's what BNG demands, which feels with the cluster because you also said there are more yards. But who says Vulcan and Barriers are fundamental for the naval industry to have a future in the Vigo River is not the BNG, eh! It's the naval cluster, it's those very entrepreneurs you're talking about who say Barreras and Vulcan are fundamental and strategic for the Vigo River naval industry, it's not us. The Galician Union can't be -- I said it before and I repeat it again -- so that the ship in Vigo and in the country has a future, it can't be next to... supporting... it has to be pulling out of the car. We who are from rural countries and who know what it's like to get out of the car, if we don't pull out and draw out a plan for the future for the naval sector, we're going to keep patching every time the problems arise and that's not the future. I'm also talking about the future, Mrs. Egerique, like you. I think it's fundamental and that we can get ahead of our country's naval sector, but for that we need decisive and courageous policies, and that's what the Galician Union has to do. And that's what they're demanding not only the workers and the workers in the sector, but also the cluster. And I repeat again, it is that the vicars and the vicars give us a lot of disgust with this fight that specifically has the Vigo Town Hall and Galician Union. Someone, and I repeat again, this is what I plan on my children's mother, someone has to stop this. Someone has to sit down and say we have to work together. Because we've been seeing Vigo's politics for years -- and here's a former mayor, eh! - We know Vigo won't make any progress if we don't work by hand. And by blaming each other, which besides, you do, I think it's not casual, I think it works very well for either of the parties that pim, pam, pom and that "it's not my fault, it's the other's fault," this is the Junta thing and this is the Town Hall. So we're all on our own and Vigo loses, as he said. Anyway, the president of the Galician Union has to sit down and clean up all those asperities and work for Vigo. We are from Vigo and we are from Vigo we see how Vigo is losing with those struggles, and the naval is one of the sectors that is losing with those struggles. I agree that the mayor isn't doing what he has to do, he's not pulling out of the country industry. He refers to those who are not his competences, who are from the Union; he is also true, but a mayor who sees for the good future of his citizens takes away from anyone who needs to have a job in his city. But Junta has to take the first step and sit down and make Vigo work. Anyway, I'm glad you finally see that Vulcan is fundamental, that the grades of Teis have to be, the lands of Teis have to continue to be for the shipbuilding. Let's hope there's no change in the last hour, because we're quite used to things happening all of a sudden and things change. But it is also essential that in these eight months, at least, it will take time for the new concession to be granted to work, and it will have to be with request, as the entrepreneur has already said he would do, but there must be the commitment of the Harbour Authority and the Board of Directors, which I repeat again, in which both parties are in, because the President of the Port does not decide unilaterally, is the council that votes and decides, those who support that initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u152	Thank you, Mrs. González. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga, on the request of the Council of Galicia to the Central Government of the withdrawal of the appeal brought before the Constitutional Court concerning the reform of the Law 8/2008, of 10 July, of health of Galicia There is an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal: Amendment of amendment must be replaced by the resolution of the non-legislative proposal by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Gounta de Galicia to reform the amendment of Law 8/2008, of July 10, of Galicia's health legislation, which was processed by the plenary session of the Galicia Parliament, to accurately compare it to the amendment of the Public Health Act 16/2010 of the Balearic Islands, whenever the Government itself has publicly considered that they are similar laws and thus, with this pairing, to be able to overcome the possible problem of unconstitutionality of the Galician legislation that is being considered in the Constitutional Court."]] To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u153	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, good afternoon, gentlemen. We are, as you know, living in Spain what we all call the fifth wave of the pandemic, a wave that certainly differs from the previous ones, given that much of the population, especially the most at risk, is vaccinated, and therefore its incidence is in young people, which fortunately does not carry such an important hospital occupation. However, it is a wave that reminds us that the pandemic continues here, that the authorities have to continue to fight against the pandemic, and that the effects of the pandemic, though less serious in the field of health, in the specific field of hospitalization and access to ICUs, are still very serious for the hospitality, for tourism, or even for the performance of officials in charge of public security. And that's why I think it's convenient to talk about how we're fighting the pandemic once again from a legal point of view. Well, as you know, since the state of alarm was lifted, that allowed the autonomous authorities to take the relevant health measures in a delegated way, measures that affected them, and this is natural by the nature of a pandemic that demands the confinement and treatment and the non-coherence of people who can transmit the virus to each other, because they certainly carry with them some restrictions on fundamental freedoms and rights, with greater or less intensity throughout the pandemic. But the fact is that at present, in this fifth wave, we are in a new environment where the health authority, basically the autonomous communities that have competence transferred to internal health, have to combat the single pandemic and exclusively with health laws, i.e., with organic law 3/1986, with special public health measures; also with the extraordinary Law 14 of 1986 on health; and more the autonomous health laws that provide for actions in defence of public health. The organic framework, that is, organic law 3/1986, as we have already said in many debates, is a park framework, inconcrete and insufficient. I recall that Article 3 literally states that: "In order to control communicable diseases, the health authority, in addition to carrying out general preventive actions, may take appropriate measures for the control of the sick, of persons who are or are in contact with the same sick and the immediate environment, as well as those deemed necessary in case of communicable risk." That is to say, you are talking about appropriate measures, of those that are considered necessary in case of a transmissible risk, which is obviously the same as saying virtually nothing. That's why several autonomous communities, highlighting Galicia in time, already before the summer, i.e., well over a year ago, which is calling for a reform of organic law, asked in different ways, at the Conference of Presidents, by letter to the President, through the parliamentary groups in Congress, to reform that organic law to give instruments to the health authorities, to the autonomous authorities, to regulate instruments that limit the actions of the public authorities, but in turn allow the public authorities to fight the pandemic. And as you know, this request, although it was first said that yes, the president said it, the vice president said it, said it to the Congressional Reconstruction Commission, and even there are commitments made by the former Health Minister himself, it finally hasn't changed the Health Act. The immediate consequence was that the Courts, we can formally understand that they already understand that organic law already marks the content of what must be the struggle against the pandemic and therefore autonomous communities, since that is the common framework and autonomous communities have the capacity of legislative development of state legislation, because they could act and adopt specific rules that would develop this parity of organic law. In fact, I think it is a mistake, the mistake is not that I say it, if we go to what the Council of State says, that: "Organic Law 3/1986 could be insufficient to address, in accordance with the constitutional principles of administrative efficiency and legal certainty, the needs of the relevant health authorities." And so did the Supreme Court, one of the times that it had to be decided on decisions by the autonomous communities. He said: "The legal difficulties would be much smaller, both for the Health Administration and for the litigation-administrative chambers, if there was sufficient articulated regulation of the conditions and limits in which fundamental rights can be restricted or restricted in emergencies or disasters such as the current one." As I said, in the face of this parity and this legitimate inaction of the Government of Spain and most of it that governs, that it commands or has a majority in Congress, the fact is that many autonomous communities, and not only the Galician, have taken advantage of this competition in the field of internal health, which is recognised in Article 33.1 of the Autonomy Statute, to develop their own reform of the health law and to adjust it to the needs of fighting a pandemic. In Galicia we did it through the group; as you know, we registered on November 19 of last year a bill, which was finally passed on February 23. But, as I said, it was not the only one; Aragon has similar rules, the Basque Country has promoted a similar standard and, finally, Balearics has passed a real decree, this one no longer similar, but basically identical. All of them, by the way, communities governed by the Socialist Party that what they do is the same thing that Galicia did, to develop the Organic Health Law to cover this legal vacuum denounced by the Supreme Court and the Council of State. Finally, to avoid what many constitutionalist doctrine has denounced as the Government of Judges, which has been established in Spain with not always positive consequences, as we have just seen in the case of boys infected on the final travel to the Balearic Islands itself. And also as we see with certain inconsistencies between the decisions taken by the various higher courts of justice. The reform of the Greek Health Law had a debate, legitimate. Some agree with the proposal and some may object to its content. But it's a matter of whether it's constitutional or not. I would like to remind you that in the parliamentary procedure there was no objection, nor logically from those who have the obligation to do so, who are the lawyers of the House, nor from the Government of Spain itself, that in other legislative procedures it has warned of the possibility that there would be unconstitutionality through the corresponding letter of cooperation, in accordance with what is envisaged in the legislation of administrative cooperation. What the Government does once published is to request information from the Council of the State on three reasons: the Council completely rejects two, opens the door to an appeal, exclusively for the Constitutional Court to delimit the scope and competence of the legislative development of the autonomous communities, although only, despite the Government's first intention to apply virtually the whole law, if it restricts to an article, 38.2, on which the Council of State said that it did not appear that the measures provided for in Article 38.2 of Law 8/2008 were different from those which were being applied by all state and autonomous health authorities under organic law 3/1986. Finally, the Government, without contacting the autonomous community, as provided for by the Law of the Constitutional Court to negotiate the interpretation or possible amendment of the law in its possible aspect of unconstitutionality, presents an appeal of unconstitutionality by requesting and applying article 161.2 of the Constitution the immediate suspension of the law. And he basically does it with two arguments: developmental capacity, which doesn't question either Aragon or Balearics; and the specific content of the law. So the surprise that when we see a decree passed -- decree, not law -- in Balearics, basically article 32 is copied. I'm going to leave the President of the Chamber with a distribution petition to all groups of the comparison of the two articles. For example, there is one who says that the following preventive measures can be taken in particular. "Subjection of sick people to adequate treatment." Article 49a(2)(b) of the whale decree states: "Subjection of sick persons to appropriate treatment". It's literal. The next one, which provides for confinement, differs in two words, is a long paragraph. In Galicia, he says, "That people can be confined to a place suitable for such a purpose." The whale says, "For this purpose." Welsh says, "It will separate from other people." Whaling says, "It'll separate other people." Those are the only differences in these articles. And what does the unconstitutional resource say? It says that "These measures of control of sick persons, such as isolation at home, hospitalization at the hospital, or isolation or detention in another place suitable for that purpose...", which are literally identical in the two legislative texts, in the law of Galicia and not the decree of Balearics, it turns out that they are in accordance with the Government's appeal, "which affects Article 19 of the Constitution as it establishes in a binding manner limitations on the freedom of movement of citizens in the circumstances cited without having the capacity to do so. In addition to article 17 of the Spanish Constitution. This without the coverage of organic law." What is said of the law of Galicia is not said of the law of whales, and it turns out that the law of Galicia has resorted within an immediate period practically and has done nothing to the law of whales. On the other hand, the Government of Spain says that it is "that it is trying to maintain the general coordination of health care, reducing the dysfunctions that, if it survives, would prevent or hinder the reality of the Spanish health system respectively". Well, what we understand is that precisely this resource of unconstitutionality against the Greek law, which is not against any autonomous norm, and particularly against one that is identical because it has been copied from Galicia, is what causes dysfunctions and contradictions in the public health system. Because the reality is that Balearics has the law in force and Galicia has been suspended, when they say the same thing, as I just explained. The resource is the main contradiction and dysfunction of the system, and that is why we ask for this non-legislation proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u154	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u155	...we ask that the appeal be withdrawn or, at least, the application for suspension of the appeal be withdrawn, and with that, beyond the content of the law itself and the measures provided for in the law, which we are defending the powers and dignity of this House, which is so much like saying that of the country that this House represents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Puy. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u157	Thank you, President. Good morning, almost late. Good afternoon, Counselor, I thank you for being in the debate. As they sometimes say in some interviews, I'm glad you ask me this question, which is said jokeously, because that's how we can debate. [[Laughter]] Because, frankly, the other day there was a question in this Parliament that you, Mr. Puy, have asked about the counselor who, allow me to be disappointed, was probably the most boisterous spectacle I've seen since I've been here. It is true that yesterday you won them the disgusting manipulation of Parliament, they are already going for seconds, but in any case it was quite creepy. The truth is that it disappoints me because I have a very high regard, I continue to have in fact, of course, for you two, because the parliamentary debates that you play must recognize, beyond the discrepancies, that they have... it is always a joy to observe them, even sometimes to participate. But in this case it's a false debate, built for that war account, not the solution, because you're in it, building a war account, war against the state. They don't mind being at war with the state anymore than solving the problem. That fallacy is based on three questions. First, you're lying to; second, you're being hypocritical; but there's a third which is that we still have a chance to build something and we're going to be in that part. And I'll try to detail why. The first is that you lie, you lie when you say, as if it were something that was measured by the weight, which are identical laws. You're lying. Already the comparison in numerical terms almost as if it were with an Excel sheet or with an autocite system is already complicated. A juridical expert, Mr. Puy, as you are, knows that in addition to many words can match, but there are some, the nuances, the details that are what leads to the matter. You know what all boys are boys, but not all boys are barons. You notice that even the difference is only spelling. But in any case, they lie clearly. We could explain a number of questions, a lot of questions about the need that includes believing a negative PCR or a negative evidence, that in the German law it is unclear for some possibilities, such as we would now be solving the question of leisure as the situation is different. But, look, I'm going to stop in two. One of them because it was notoriously more mediatic, and the other one, allow me, because I find it very interesting from the point of view of how a law, as it does make the whale and did not make the Welsh, confronts the question that they also have to do with something more than an ethereal debate that ultimately does not solve the pandemic. First, vaccination. You think this is the same, one law or another. And we're going to go to that difference. It is not identical to suggesting, as you do in the law of Greece, that it is possible to vaccinate or force all the population to do as the law of whales does, to pose the possibility that certain groups at a given time may be forced. For example, what if all public health professionals are required to be vaccinated? Like France does, it would seem reasonable. Or forcing him not to enter a residence of older people who are not already vaccinated, it would seem reasonable. Or even, if possible, that I don't know, but it may be an interesting debate, to suggest that children who are not vaccinated may not go to a nursery; even not only about the vault, but with any other element, with any other disease. Question that Mr. Feijó posed a while ago about another kind of pathologies and that may be reasonable, but not to all the population, because people have a right, and I think who is not vaccinated is irresponsible, he is an insolidary, but he has a right even to be mistaken. Our job as politicians is to convince them, but they have the right not to get vaccinated. And individual freedoms must also be respected for those who are wrong. That's why we can't force everyone to vaccinate, and that's a very serious difference that makes law not identical. Second question. Since they're identical, Mr. Puy, you sure know the law and I handed it over here, I certainly also had the opportunity to read it with less legal rigour. Where is the price limitation of the PCRs in the Welsh law? Because I didn't find her. I'm sure there's someone here who at some point did at some point this whole year and half a PCR or antigen test, sure. How much did it cost them if they did it private way? Maybe not, but there might have been someone. How much did it cost them? I'm sure they know about someone who did. Whaling law prevents speculation and limits the price of PCRs, limits the price of PCRs and antigens. Ah, this thing of limiting someone to fit into the pandemic in the Greek law isn't, eh! Or is it? He's not. They're not that identical anymore. Come on, Mr. Puy. They don't look that much anymore. So there's an obvious lie and a fallacy, which are identical. They're not, they're similar. Of course, they're not going to deal with the credits of cooperatives, are they not, they're going to deal with how to deal with a pandemic, but see how they're not identical? But I'm going to come back to this in the end with respect to our amendment that I think we can include something. Second, you do an exercise of hypocrisy and for that you will not speak the Socialist Party, will speak Mr. Lafuente Mir, about how you are regulating this; Mr. Lafuente Mir is your spokesperson of the People's Party in Balearic Islands. He says about constitutionality, that's why you're defending so much, that's whale law. It says: "It must be remembered that the rights and duties and freedoms of citizens in Title I of the Constitution can only be regulated by organic laws." And he qualifies that whale rule as unconstitutional. On the need for legislation: "The measures to continue combating the covid currently have perfectly legal coverage in State Law 2/2021, of urgent preventive measures". They tell you in Balearics that there is no need for a new legislative framework, you say in Balearics. I don't say it, you say it. "The most obvious proof that this decree does not have the necessary justification for urgency and necessity is that the Public Health Act 2010 should not be urgently changed." You guys. "They make confinements, provide perimeter confinements, confiscate property without defining exactly..." Moreover, one of the things they say is: "We don't define the procedure specifically" that tells the law to whale; it expresses -- to violate fundamental rights is not exactly defined the procedure, ironic requirement is a report from the Directorate-General for Health." Allow me another difference: in the German law or that. Not at all. "I think it has no legal basis of any kind for such powerful interventions that are affecting people's fundamental rights and freedoms." You say what you now want to use to build an account. And I don't read any more because I'm not very aggressive, and I don't want to hurt them very much. "So, it's just that they don't leave us any choice but to vote for them a no." And he adds: "A huge non-categorical, an enormous non-categorical in defending the rights and freedoms of citizens because you since 9 May -- which came into force or decree in Balearics -- until last Wednesday were violating the rights and freedoms of citizens of the autonomous community." Added in the Journal of Sessions: Applause from the People's Party. Why do they need to fall so low? What you're going to Balearics to say is unconstitutional, it's unworthy, it violates rights, it's not necessary, they come here to say in order to mount an account that if the Government of the State pursues them, they'll end up being you Nelson Mandela. Why so much hypocrisy? Why is such a lie necessary? And finally, let's see if we can make a deal. We're going to propose an agreement to the Socialist Party. They like whale law because they say it's identical to Welsh, they like it. [[Murmurs.]] Let's do the same. We take the law of Galicia and we change that, which is nothing, which is detail, which doesn't matter because it's practically the same weight, right? Let's change it, if they're nothing, if that's nothing, that must be done very quickly, right? Let's change it. They have all our support, everything. And that regulation for us that goes to the limit of what is possible, and so it's very hard, but it goes to the limit, within the limit -- which is an important difference in nuance -- that regulation that goes to the limit of what is within has all of our support. I am personally convinced, we will see it politically, but I am convinced that, if that change exists, there will be no recourse to unconstitutionality. I'm fully convinced because it would be the same law. Sure, what's going on? That in order to do so, you have to change the law of Greece because it's not the same, it's not the same thing. And if you refuse this amendment, which is to use the whale law to approve the law of Galicia, if you refuse, you will be acknowledging that you do not want to change it because it is not the same. So now you have the chance to choose, if it's the same, let's use that one, because if it's the same and okay, let's use that one. If we don't use that one, it's not the same, and then what they care about is war. Because the solution is ahead. You think it's identical to whale law, we take that law; you think it's even good; well, to you, because your spokesperson at Balearics says there's unconstitutionality and all that. We keep the same criterion in Balearics and here, go ahead, get us that one, pass this one, we can have some difference, obviously, but go ahead... and especially if there's a deal. Now you were thinking of something there and now you're thinking of something different. Are they going to agree in some way? Or at least don't listen to your fellow Balearics, defend Galicia, make a law that can be applied. We take the whale law, you say it's the same. Now they have to vote, whether it's the same or all this was a mile.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u158	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Iria Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all and all. And without it being a precedent, let me begin by agreeing with the spokesperson of the People's Party and greeting him also in his incorporation into an old claim, not from the BNG, but from all the Greek nationalism: demanding sovereignty and self-government for Galicia, and decision-making capacity here. We agree on the need to have tools to manage our resources, also our services, tools that cannot be demanded or removed from the coup d'état as if, instead of exclusive competences, we had a sort of diploma that can be revoked when circumstances are not ideals. Because this was what happened a year ago when in this state, the most decentralized state in the world, it was time for the PSOE government to put order, it became clear that important things, such as a health crisis, are decided in Madrid and here is a glass left for us to go and comfort ourselves and a little more. So, welcome to that self-government claim. It's worth more than ever and more after a decade without asking for any competition from the State Government. It's also a shame that they're willing to sue for self-government and hit hard on their chests just to say: they don't say anything in the Balearics. It's a shame they only want to look around this country only when they can say that it's PSOE's fault, and that they don't remember when you can demand that self-government, like the Government that I am, that they didn't remember them either when they were ruling in Madrid and they could have given up those powers. It's a shame they only remember the comparisons for this and not to improve the deficiencies that exist in the Greek health. Because I'm sorry for all the months in which we've been removed from health skills, this self-government didn't wake them up. Because, unfortunately, you find yourself absolutely comfortable and comfortable on the premise that you manage Madrid and then here we will present the complaints. When the previous plenary session spoke on this same subject, among the spokesperson of the People's Party, the counsellor now absent in this kind of soliloquy which sometimes has the Greek Government with his own parliamentary group, they used qualifiers such as to say that the unconstitutional resource presented by the Government is an aggravation to the legitimacy of this Parliament, which was a partisan use that clearly assumed a sectarianism in order to govern. To me the truth is that these terms do not cease to make me curious when this way of proceeding is invented by the group that now presents the complaint, because it is enough to hand over the hemerotheque to see that the People's Party also at its time presented a resource of unconstitutionality against more than 100 articles of the Catalonian Statute, which then turns out that they had identical copies in the statutes of Andalusia, Aragon, Castile-A Mancha, Valencian and also in the Balearic Islands itself, and did not resort to any of them, some of them even were promoted by the People's Party itself. How curious, too, that at that time I had not reminded you that this way of proceeding was partisan, sectarian, and that it could entail an aggravating of the legitimacy of the Catalan Parliament when it was to legislate. And how curious that they also draw some manga rules for this game and now complain about them when they're against them. And the worst thing is, we can't pretend to fool ourselves into thinking that at some point in this game the health or well-being of patients, because you as a government prefer to continue this kind of debate, this kind of confrontation instead of really improving public health. Because as they continue to argue and paralyze outside these walls, we continue with the same problems as ever, we continue with a drowning, avocado, an infradodoto primary care, which they didn't hesitate to put a pebble on every day. We discussed an hour or more ago about the situation of primary care, they will then ask the counsellor also about the situation that is being dealt with in the Marin Town Hall, let me also remind the Guard Health Center, where a false roof has fallen a few months ago, which takes most of this 2021 working with half the medical squares assigned to the center, and that the counsellor, aware of the situation, because reality cannot be denied, what he said is, "I wish we could do something about it." Or, by setting a more recent example, Oia's, who's seeing how he's again without the pediatrician service, where the medical discharges aren't covered. Or from anywhere else, because this is the constant they have for primary care, systematic waste. Mr. Puy was speaking of the fifth wave of the pandemic, and the joy that may lead us to think that no such great hospital pressure is being borne. The hospital pressure, my companion Montse Prado said earlier, is being put up with primary care. I don't know what the government does to solve it, too. Without monopolizing with the situation of primary care, which gives us, which gives us for a couple of full-times, we can talk about the closure, or the blockade, of hospital beds: more than half a thousand in this summer, which comes to account of more than 1 in 10 that remains inoperative. In a summer, besides, like this one, where delays and delays accumulate after the impact of the pandemic. Because we're still in the pandemic. It closes that it is also done to respect the workers' rights, thus providing them with their corresponding vacation period. Curiously contrasts with what is happening, because permissions and vacations are being denied by that staff. They didn't even agree on their competences or self-government, and they just bet on managing zero costs and throwing miles. If there are no personnel to continue with the moderately normal operation during the summer period, units are closed. If the hired staff does not arrive yet, permission is denied. That's the truth is it's an effective management, and also without any crack in the plan. Why, when comparing with other territories, do not look at the ratios of nurses per inhabitant, pediatricians per inhabitant, matrons per inhabitant, hospital beds per inhabitant? Why are they just looking for the comparison to do -- as my partner said -- the story of those students who resort to the fact that the teacher has me mania and that's why we can't do it? I told you at the beginning, we agreed on the need for more self-government, more capacity for action on our resources, on our services, but that self-government cannot be sued only for its role in Madrid. It's not worth simply reducing to a siren song only when you want to confront this quite sterile game. We need sovereignty to manage the resources, our services and put all the measures needed to improve the quality of life of the population. And in the case of health, which is what touches us on this issue, we start by strengthening the Greek public health with more staff, with more resources, with more budget, so that we can really improve that quality of life that I mentioned. Because what is really an aggravating is the posture that they take offense when they have health as they have it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Carreira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The author group of the bill, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u161	Thank you, President. Mr. Torrado, I don't know if we fell much under the Health Counsellor and I in a question, of what I'm sure is that we haven't reached your level yet, because what was embarrassing today and embarrassing was your intervention, in which directly, in front of the papers that demonstrate the literality of articles that are traveled in the case of Galicia and that are not in the case of Balearics, you continue to deny the evidence, which is that the same article I just read to you, the resource is in the case of Greek and is vigilant in Balearics without you saying anything at all. [[Applause]] Don't say no, look at the papers, because you think you come here talking without seeing a paper, just with one paper ahead, and Sánchez and Madrid do it well, and often get wrong too. Look, manipulation is to say what PP did in Balearics; in Balearics a decree was passed and what was voted on was whether it was being processed as a bill or validated directly, and the PP was asking to be treated as a bill. They're still in time for amendments, and we'll see the amendments tabled by the Popular Group. He says no. Look, I'm not going to deny the evidence, but that's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, what's true is that the Government of Spain did not call the bilateral commission when the law was published, did not ask the Ministry of Health to report to the Council of State, asked the State Council for an urgent report which the Council itself told it did not record the reasons for this urgency in relation to an appeal which expires within three months. That's what the Council of State says about the speed of the Government of Spain to resort to Galician law. Galician law was published on February 26, and at 36 days on April 6, the unconstitutional appeal was already submitted. Balearic law is published on May 7th and is still in force today. The same articles that violate the Constitution according to what Mr. Torrado says, don't say no, if you like, read it again. An article that says the appeal that violates 19 of the Constitution, is what says: "Subjection of sick persons to the right treatment", Letter B, Article 38.2, No. 2 of the Italian law. B, "Subjection of sick people to adequate treatment." [[Murmurs.]] And what the resource says is literally, what it says here, what I'm reading to it is unconstitutional. In Galicia he's suspended and in Baleares he's not suspended. If you want to say no, because look, I've heard a lot of weird things from him without raising his voice, I appreciate you doing the same. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] But it's just that I'm going to tell you more, if you've read the resource that the State presents, it's talking about two issues: it's talking about specific content, and explicit resource content identical to one law and another that they're going through in Galicia and not in Balearics, but it also says that the main thing is to question whether we simply have the ability to develop organic law in these terms, and that's also perfectly applicable not only to Balearics, but also to Aragon and the Basque Country, because they're restricting rights. Or do you tell me that in any of the autonomic laws you say you have to quarantine someone when you can contaminate the others? Isn't that a right restriction? Exactly the same. They therefore question the principle of the legislative capacity of the autonomous communities, but only that of Galicia, and not that of Balearics, not that of the Basque Country, not that of Aragon, and also the contents. And when the contents are identical to Galician... because you tell me we copy Balearic law. Of course, for example: "All control measures of people who are or have been in contact as quarantine at home or elsewhere," which you said was an authoritarian derivative of this Government, are literally in the Balearic article, the only thing that changes in that article is that where it puts "separation will be somewhere else suitable for that purpose," Balearics says, "for this purpose"; and where it puts Galicia's "separation of the other people," it says, "the separation of the other people." Are you kidding me when you tell me to copy this to remove the resource? For with this I clearly reflect that the resource is an act of sectarianism, because if the words I have just read are unconstitutional, what we are seeing is an act of sectarianism. [[Applause]] The only difference that is not the subject of vaccines is that in Galicia it puts "Subjection and prophylactic measures to prevent the disease, including vaccination and immunization, with information in any case of possible risks related to the adoption or failure to take these measures". What does Balearics say we have to copy?: "Submitted to prophylactic measures to prevent the disease, including vaccination, for certain groups, or immunisation with information in any case of possible risks related to adoption" What or what does it say or appeal? That no immunization can be done either, because immunization is certain collectives. No, man, let's see. Look, Mr. Torrado, really regrettable. Because you could come here and say that the Balearic Government has totalitarian, authoritarian, Bolivarian derivatives, which want to implement a state-of-the-art alarm regime, but it seems that two words make the socialist government of Balearics very democratic and the one here does not. [[Murmurs.]] And I told him, I don't know we fell down, but of course we haven't reached your level, Mr. Torrado. [[Applause]] I conclude, Mrs. Carreira, I appreciate the support of the Block. It is a pity that the Block even when it supports the PP has to criticize something, in this case things of several decades that have nothing to do with the Health Act, or with the legislative capacity of this House. But in any case, there's a mistake you've made, I've certainly been leading all life and sovereignty ever, and we don't confuse autonomy with sovereignty, because we're an autonomous force and you're a sovereignist force. So I welcome you to autonomy if you leave sovereignty, both things are complicated at the same time. The autonomous state in which we believe is based on the principles of loyalty and cooperation, there was no loyalty here challenging the law without bilateral commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u163	...and there was no cooperation, because it wasn't about reaching an agreement in the bilateral commission. Mr. Torrado, this is an obvious case of the partisan use and instrumentalization of institutions against a government of a political force, which is the People's Party, on the other side, which is the Socialist Party which does not challenge the same rules when they are approved by governments of their own color. That is regrettable, as regrettable as in this context the Galician PSOE continues to support the Government of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u164	Thank you, Mr. Puy. The amendment doesn't accept it? No, but I have to... We proceed... as I see all Members, of course, the greatest right of one Member is to vote. [[Laughter]] Voting of non-legislative proposals We proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We begin by voting for the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on the Navantia shipyards in the Ferrol River. He asks for a point vote and does not accept it. The amendment was not accepted either, so we voted as it is. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Carlos Francis Rivera. Vote of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Galician Council to the Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly of Ourenses arising from the suggestions contained in the report of the Board of Auditors on its economic and budgetary management during the financial year 2018. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Torrido. What do you want the word for? Ask for a point of order. Do you accept? She doesn't accept it. Then we start the vote again. We vote. Voting of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Fr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Ms. Marina Ortega Otero, on the reformulation to be carried out by the Greek Government of the primary care model. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 14; votes against, 39; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u165	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which led by Mr Fernández Alfonzo. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Voting of the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Bloc Galego, on the initiative of Ms Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the demand from the Galician Union to the Central Government for the public intervention of the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u166	We are now voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Carme González. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah? Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They call for a point of order. Do you accept a point-by-point vote? Accept it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And what points do you want to separate? There's only two. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then... well, I didn't know. Let's vote for the point first. Voting of point 1 of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Bloc Galego, on the initiative of Ms Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council in Galicia to condition the new port concession of the former Vulcan facilities to their use for shipbuilding or ship repair The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This first point was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u167	Let us now vote on the second point. Vote of point 2 of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Bloc Galego, on the initiative of Ms Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in order to condition the new port concession of the former Vulcan facilities to their use for shipbuilding or ship repair The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This second point is therefore also adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u168	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy. Vote of the motion for a non-law of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and 14 other Members, on the request of the Council of Galicia to the Central Government for the withdrawal of the appeal brought before the Constitutional Court in respect of the reform of the Law 8/2008, of 10 July, on health of Galicia [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The amendment was not accepted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u169	And now I'm going to read out an institutional statement that brings me to the groups and says, Institutional declaration "Before the brutal murder, last July 3rd day of this month in the city of Coruña, young Samuel Luiz Muñiz, 24 years old, the Parliament of Galicia EXPRESS: His condemnation and rejection of Samuel's vile murder, which was committed with assailment and cruelty. His solidarity and support for his family, his friends and close friends and his companions, his companions and residents in the Center of the Third Age Father Rubinos, where he provided his professional services. Their condemnation of any kind of violence, whether it is on time or on time; explicit or implicit; verbal, psychological or behavioral; and whatever their motivation, violence is always repulsive and reprehensible. Because violence only generates more violence and because we are all part of a democratic society incompatible with any kind of violent or aggressive expression. Knowing, moreover, that zero tolerance with violence is the only way we have to educate new generations, that they will be able to internalize a constructive message of peaceful coexistence that respects all people. Parliament also expresses its appreciation for the heroic behavior of Senegalese citizens, who did not hesitate to come to the aid of Samuel Luiz Muñiz by trying to stop his lynching, endangering his own physical integrity. The Galician Parliament recommends that the Government of Spain, in view of the exceptional civic commitment shown by these citizens, address the regularization of its residence in Spain, properly valuing the merits of its person. Their trust in the State Corps and Security Forces and in Justice, because they are left to clarify the ultimate causes of Samuel's murder, and that's why they need to continue to investigate deeply the facts so as not to be unpunished. However, according to witnesses, in the murder of Samuel there were homophobic expressions which, regardless of the criminal qualification of the facts, the Galician Parliament wants to condemn, in addition to recalling the importance of ridding our society of hatred of sexual diversity. To eliminate from the most subtle and normalized violence, such as debasing jokes and expressions, to any form of physical or psychological violence, is a daily responsibility that concerns society as a whole. The Galician Parliament undertakes to do everything in its hands to contribute to a more peaceful society in which coexistence is free from the slightest sign of violence because, ultimately, any one of us can be Samuel." [[Adopted by consent.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And now that we're all here, I wanted them to comment very briefly on a matter. And it's just that this morning, in this Parliament, the coordinator for Euromelanoma, who is the head of the dermatology service at the Hospital de Pontevedra, and the chief of dermatology at the Hospital Clínico de Santiago, Dr. Hugo Vázquez Veiga, were here, and they are asking, as they are doing in recent years, for our help to help them disseminate the importance of sun protection. They're asking for it, 193 cases have been diagnosed in six months and they're asking us to help them. And the hand consists of information that I will transfer to all Members so that, through social networks, they can label what they ask us to do about the prevention of the sun. I already tagged myself, I put a little girl who put me there, but I want to spread it to all of you because it's something they're asking us to do. We're elected representatives of society, if they ask us to give him a hand, we're going to give him a hand. Thank you very much. And we're still on the agenda. [[Pause.]] Agenda Change We now make a change in the agenda, which is a question to the Government. Question by Mr Diego Calvo Pouso and 14 other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the assessment made by the Government of Greece on the continued delay in the processing of the transfer of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community at the Congress of Deputies and that no compromises on the fees have yet taken place
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u170	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u171	Thank you, President. Counsellor, when this group recorded this question we had been asking for weeks ago because we were really concerned about everything that was going on with the Atlantic Highway: repeated delays in Congress to deal with this initiative, which we also had the honour to defend at the Congress of Deputies. Up to 15 times the call of the Transfer Commission has been delayed. We were also concerned about the lack of information on the materialization of bonuses in the beaches, so that we could pay less for traveling on the highway. July, this month in which we are, was the last deadline given by the Minister of Development to President Feijóo and there was no news on the matter, and this weekend we knew why. He said we put this question moved by concern and the same reason made us include it on the agenda of this session. And less ill, because the event at the weekend, with the sudden cessation of the minister, certainly did not reassure us, but it gives us more concern. Looks like there were meetings in the government, and I'm not saying it, Mr. Abalos himself said it. Remember that here in Santiago de Compostela, in an act of the party, he said he had come to stay and nobody threw him. Well, apparently he wasn't very right. But returning to the matter, what we are concerned about is the transcendence of the AP-9 motorway to Galicia, which is unquestionable, because it vertebrates our territory, and all the groups of this Parliament, we have claimed that the Union can assume the title and competences on the highway, for better management for the Greeks. That's, in principle, because we believed that all groups defended the same thing, at least so we said it. We've done everything we need and now we're waiting for the government to fulfill its commitments. Yesterday they opened the papers saying it was good news that the Government authorized a series of budgets to be able to pay those discounts on the highway. Well, I don't think it was that good news, because the budget, in theory, was already put in the general budget of the state. But finally, we also learned through the media that the government delegate himself is already telling us that in July they won't be these fees and they won't comply with the word given; that to see if there's luck and can be done in August. That was what the government delegate said yesterday in the media. To us, logically, all this news worries us and we wanted to know what the opinion of the Council of Galicia was, what its opinion on this situation was. If you have any further information, I would like you to bring it to all Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u172	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Answer by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Maria Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u173	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, since the commitments are not just to be announced, the commitments are to be met, and that's why we want to see the benefits of the fees applied now, we want the benefits of AP-9's tariffs already to benefit the Greeks, and we want the Government of Spain to apply those bonuses that it has promised for July. Ads after announcements, but what we want is done. The truth is that we are used to the Government of Spain, of the Socialist Party, of Pedro Sánchez, to changes of criterion, to dissipate, to contradict. I hope the change in the Ministry of Transport doesn't mean to postpone these bonuses on AP-9. Because it's true that we've been nine months, nine months since that announcement and therefore waiting since last October for the AP-9 bonuses to be applied, that we had to wait for the 2021 budgets; the 2021 budgets have come into effect, there are 63 million euros this year, but the fact is that these millions are not coming to Galicia. They don't even get to Galicia, they don't even get to the Greeks, and what happens in Galicia is that in January, there's no casualties, on the other hand, on AP-9's beaches, it's the bus most over Galicia when we see others coming down. The last committed date between former Minister Abalos and President of the Union was July, which in that month applied these bonuses. We believe -- and we practice -- in institutional loyalty and we believe in the word given, but the truth is, we're already in time for a discount, there's 17 days left to end the month of July and we're learning through the media. We've learned by the media that in July it won't be. Therefore, through the media we are informed of the failure of the Government of Spain. At first they said they needed time and then the dealership was against, which had to imagine already coming in, and moved with a lot of pump the authorization of that expense schedule, but the fact is that it is a process of more than many proceedings that are still pending. So there are pending procedures and today the Greeks continue to pay the same as yesterday, despite that announcement, as it seemed today that the bonuses came into force, today the Greeks pay the same as yesterday by the fees of AP-9, and there are remaining proceedings. We've also heard from the media that 20 percent of heavy-duty vehicles, which is not enough, are not enough. The release of the payout in Roundup 2018: they're paying for those compensatory works that they don't arrive, and therefore we're tired of waiting for those AP-9 fees and, of course, it's irrevocable and priority, any progress is welcome, but what we don't accept is that if we catch up at the back door a failure of the Government of Spain. I don't know if it'll come sooner, or rather later, the AP-9 bonus than the high speed to Galicia. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u174	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u175	Thank you very much, Counselor. The truth is, we're worried, because we see that the fall in the peas promised by everyone, by the Socialist Party, will not arrive. Now they'll excuse, logically, the arrival of a new holder to the Development portfolio, but of course, in July it won't be, and in August we'll see. And we'll see if they're done. But we are also concerned that this is happening again with the debate we had at the Congress of Deputies. There the same secretary-general of the Socialist Party defended the need to transfer ownership, because whoever could best manage AP-9 was Galicia, and yet we found out a few weeks ago that, when amendments were presented to processing in Congress, the Socialist Party, the same as the secretary-general who said that in Congress, changed his opinion and said that the important thing is the downs and that, therefore, what can be transferred is the ability to manage but not the title. I mean, the Galician Union can put the signals in a situation, at a different kilometre point along the AP-9, but it doesn't want us to manage the AP-9. And this, of course, concerns us with this parliamentary group, we are concerned about these changes of opinion, which is not exclusively in the area of infrastructure, but today we are seeing what happened to Alcoa, who change their mind, because from the Government they change their mind and the Socialist Group in Galicia, which is an important branch of the Socialist Party of Moncloa, because logically, we accept each and every one of these proposals and does not express what Galicia thinks. We wanted to ask whether, if we are to do so or to propose finally a transmission of the title in that way proposed by the Socialist Group in the Congress of Deputies, whether the Council of Galicia is prepared to accept that transmission as they did in the amendments, or whether on the contrary we will continue to defend what we have always defended, years ago, now and we will continue to defend in the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. Close this question, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u177	Thank you, President. For the truth is that everything related to AP-9, bonuses and headlines, is a chronicle of a de-purpose, and the truth is that you start to remember that little story of never ending from high speed to Galicia. I'm not going to go into more telling you about this matter, we've been waiting for nine months for these bonuses and we see constant changes in the central government's criteria and date changes after nine months. And we were talking about consensus and working together, but, well, the fact is that the words by the Government of Spain carry them the wind, and what we're also concerned about, apart from that failure to comply with AP-9 bonuses, is also that question about the transfer of AP-9. After that processing of the draft organic law, after three months stuck after 15 extensions, no more than 15 extensions, after the Socialist Party in Galicia had spoken of a historic milestone, everyone here was disillusioned and nothing happens on the part of the Socialist Party here in Galicia. Because the truth is that you're playing a cardboard, a cardboard, because mixing the AP-9 bonuses with the title, and the AP-9 bonuses are complementary and compatible with the transfer of the title. That is more than obvious and therefore what is happening with this amendment in Congress is a fraud, it is a fraud, and the fact is that it is a mistake to this Parliament. It is a mistake to this Parliament because it was clear the social cry, the political and social consensus for this transfer of ownership, which was clearly voted out. So we see a lack of political will by the Socialist Party to fulfill the promise. And at Galicia's board we're not going to change our position, we're going to be where we've always been, before, now and also after, defending Galicia's interests, the legitimate interests of Galicia. We'll continue to be where we've always been, demanding the applications of these fee bonuses, and demanding the new minister to comply with the given word. We don't want to be caught again by a breach of the back door, and claiming that transfer of AP-9 in fair conditions, with the necessary resources and the planned and committed works. We did not ask for more than others, but we did not ask for less, we asked for exactly the same thing as other autonomous communities, which we see were accepted by the Government of Spain, and therefore we defend Galician interests. We've been waiting for 17 days for those bonuses that we see going to fail, and we, from Galicia, the transfer processing process, expect you to continue ahead, granting title to Galicia. Because what the Socialist Party cannot claim is that Galicia has no effective AP-9 control, and it has no AP-9 decision-making capacity, because AP-9 has to be from the Greeks. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u178	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Borja Verea Fraiz and six other Members, by G. P. Popular, on the assessment of the Greek Government regarding the campaign Rachemos with Xacobeo driven by the youth organization Galicia New against the celebration of the Jacobean biennium 2021-2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u179	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u180	Thank you, President, Vice President. There are many debates on the Xacobeo that we are having in this House, and the positioning of this parliamentary group and the Council of Galicia is evident, a unique cultural movement, an extraordinary cultural event that positions Galicia on the international scene, and which, in addition to this moment, is especially important, of economic reconstruction, of support for the host, hotel and cultural industries after dramatic months. Jacob is also the heritage of all the Greeks, regardless of our ideology. It's been transforming our culture, our geography for centuries. We're very used to hearing that the Ways of Santiago have vertebrate Europe, I think it's important to say more times that all these Ways that come from all corners of the world, these cultural forces, these pilgrimage forces, because they end in Galicia and therefore have been around the century profiling our personality, and today we can say that the phenomenon of Jacob is unnecessarily important to galeguity, and therefore a unique opportunity to build a country, to cohesion, and also to advance together proud of being Welsh and Welsh. In this context, we were surprised by a campaign by the youth organization of the BNG in which, directly, it attacked Jacobobeo, expressly, without mating, with a campaign that said in the title "Rachemos co Xacobeo", an irrational campaign now so delicate for the whole sector. And I say that we were surprised because I am convinced that, of course, the Members of this parliamentary group, but also Members of this Parliament, because they were also surprised by the irrationality of an attack on one of our most universal symbols. In this situation, I would like this parliamentary group to know the assessment made by the Government of Galicia of the youth organization campaign of the BNG "Rachemos co Xacobeo". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u181	Thank you, Mr Verea. Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr Verea, the truth is, as you said, we have often debated in this Parliament about Jacob, issues related in one way or another to influence, I think it benefits and I think it thinks it much of Galicia, that is to say, the whole practice, but we've seen that it doesn't. Because it's true that we also saw in these debates that BNG had that nervousness that was always put between saying that we don't like Xacobeo, but we don't like it too much that we know we don't like Xacobeo. I mean, we have to say it, but we don't have to repeat it often because we know it's not easy to understand something that doesn't have much explanation. And well, in the end it's true, Gallica Nova came to resolve that contradiction. We've been exposed to phobia tourism in Galicia. We already know that the BNG, according to the part of this House and with a high representation also of many mayors, who, fortunately, think they have a little more head than any member of that organization, as a party, while not being told the opposite -- and it must be said, that we are not told -- that the BNG does not like the Xacobeo, that many people come to Galicia as tourists, as visitors, who repeat afterwards, that it is the big door, the big channel of entry of so many people who know Galicia through what the Way of Santiago means, through what this chance of year and half that we are still left of Xacobeo. And, therefore, we must conclude, after a long time of saying that tourism phobia -- that we are seeing elsewhere and that so much damage is being done -- Galicia is not going to arrive, because it turns out that it has arrived with this campaign. He's already pulled out his face, and BNG confirms, through his youth organization, that he doesn't like Xacobeo. It is true that the campaign was withdrawn immediately. But here's Mrs. Iria Carreira, for example, here we have these posters -- I insist, not disallowed by anyone on the Block -- where it's clearly said they're showing that they're not talking to the lodgers, they don't talk to their own mayors, they don't talk to a lot of people, I'm sure they're talking to BNG too, and they agree that the Xacobeo, with all the things that have to improve, with all the contributions that we're willing to collect, in the end, logically, is something very good for Galicia. [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela shows some posters.]] So, I guess you'd also be very upset about it, too, I suppose you'd be very upset about it too, too, that you start filling your Paths: 50,000 pilgrims and you follow this actic trend that we're going to have before it ends this June, a month of August, too to rise, and also a small symptom, a main symptom, more than small, of that, with all the difficulties that there is, we're starting to see a little light at the end of the tunnel too, and we're hoping, and I suppose all of this would bother you a lot. Look, I'd just say that all those who promote this campaign, all those who think it's not good to unauthorise it, those who just authorize it with their silence, who talk to the most affected by the benefits, who are the hosts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u183	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Verea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u184	Thank you, Vice President. Clearly, the campaign is a direct attack on Jacob, it's obvious, as we've just seen, on a red background, a shell of pilgrim broken by half, and that clear slogan, explicit, without any kind of slaughter: "Let's scratch with Jacob." A conceptual aggressiveness which is so obvious, as I say, that at few hours this campaign was withdrawn, but it was a false retreat, a retreat from the back door, because at the time the withdrawal was announced it was said that it was precisely not to fall into manipulations, but that the idea, philosophy and objectives of it were maintained. There's no remaining in politics many times to admit mistakes, we're all wrong and much more in politics, and we think this was an ideal occasion for that recognition of a campaign error, which is a genuine aberration. Taking advantage of, Mr. Vice-President, that you are here, and that we are in mid-July, advanced the summer campaign, what we would like to know is the evolution forecasts of Jacob, whether the campaigns are running and, above all, whether the rest of the administrations are meeting the objectives and commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u185	Thank you, Mr Verea. Close the question, Mr President-in-Office, President-in-Office of the Council, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No, it's all a laugh, Mr. Verea, you see that Mr. Bará is very funny about all this, it's very funny that there are four members of the BNG at the fax door, one of them, telling the people -- I suppose that also voters from the block yesterday, they passed through that door 857 people, sure that some of the block was there too -- a welcome, saying, get out of here, what you're doing is not good for anything, that's a disgrace, this is hurting Galicia; therefore, break all this, you're wrong. That's the welcome you gave them, which they weren't able to disallow. That political cowardice of campaigning and withdrawing it the next day, after the ridiculous thing that was being done, and I suppose some touch of someone sensible from the Block would come to him, but they're not able to say: we're wrong, this is nonsense, and of course we're thinking the opposite. No, no, they don't, they stay there: tourism phobia of the Block through the star product of tourism this year for so many hosts in Galicia. [[Applause]] That's what's happening! This is what so funny does Mr. Bará. I'm glad you don't even agree with your mayor, Mr Bará, that when there are acts of Jacob he comes, because he realizes he's good for his city, he realizes he's good for Galicia. What happens is that you have that eternal contradiction, you identify, wronging things, you think it's good for Jacob. This must be good for the Council of Galicia, and, therefore, if it's good for the Council of Galicia, it's good for Mr. Feijóo's government. And if it's good for Mr. Feijóo's government, it's good for the PP, and therefore it's bad for you, and it doesn't matter to you, they fuck with everything!, with Jacob and anything that's good for Galicia. And you have to know this, you have to know above all to address it. It can't be left with the image that the second Galician party in this Parliament is saying they don't want for nothing the people who will come from many places this year thanks to the Jacobbeo, not only as pilgrims but through the Jacobbeo and through knowing Galicia doing the Way of Santiago, then going to lots of places. That's what everyone wants, believe me, including theirs. That's what so many people want who know we have a chance. But if we've just been in Roncesvalles with presidents of autonomous communities of all political colors, also nationalists, who think that it's a good luck that we have this end of all the roads and wish it would be good for Galicia! And they tell us: you have to continue with that sponsorship, you have to continue with that impulse, because everyone who arrives in Galicia doing the Way in many cases before has passed through many autonomous communities, and this is a wealth for everyone. This is something good that everyone understands but the old-timers. So I was going to say: welcome to tourism phobia in Galicia. That's nothing, what you have to break up with is those who think Galicia is doing well in tourism, that so many hosts who have been having such a bad time start to see now an opportunity, start to see that thousands of people arrive every day, that's good, as much as it bothers the Block, how much they confuse the things that go well for Galicia with the things that go wrong for the political rivals. If Galicia's doing well, it's good for everyone, and that, when the Block understands it, it's going to make a great deal of progress to understand this country. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u187	Thank you, Vice President. Da Ana Pontón Mondelo's inquiry, and 18 other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the possibilities of the transfer of Ence de Lourizan, in the Pontevedra River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u188	To formulate this plea, Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u189	I have to start by saying that the People's Party never ceases to surprise us, bringing here a question to the Government of all things and nothing but to oppose the BNG and oppose Galicia New. But don't they have more to talk about? [[Applause]] But, in addition, on a subject in which there is no need. A subject that is no longer in the debate, which is already outdated, that this campaign no longer exists, has been removed that slogan and that image.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u190	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u191	But, of course, this question is a symptom of something, it's a symptom of their nervousness, their concern about the unstoppable growth of BNG. That's what makes them nervous, and that's why they have to come to Parliament, use Parliament with a question from the People's Group to the Government to attack the BNG. This cheers us up, they move us, it's a sign that we're really doing things right. But there's no point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u192	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u193	No way. Look, if it wasn't clear to them, in all the debates we've had here, in all the public positions when we rule, where we rule, our position on Jacob is that they didn't understand anything or they don't want to understand anything. Another thing is that we don't share the partisan use of Xacobeo, or the fact that they want to replace all the tourism policy that needs to be done in this country and that doesn't happen for Xacobeo. And, of course, what they won't do is shut up, what they won't do is avoid all the debates we'll bring here, and they'll take Galicia New where we need alternatives to life projects and future projects for youth. Then we won't be silenced. [[Applause]] Yes, now I'm going with you, Mr. Count, I don't forget. Yes, of course, it's just that you guys come around provoking and then we answer. Look, Mr. Conde, if we had to explain to someone away from Galicia the debate about Ence, we would have to tell him clearly about a conflict of interest. On the one hand are the interests of our country, of Galicia, the interests of the Pontevedra river, and also of the wealth and diversity of the Galician mountain, and on the other hand the interests of an IBEX company, a multinational with its superpowers of money and also of the rotational doors. On one side is the Town Hall of Pontevedra, which is the majority social of Pontevedra, which is the public interest. And on the other hand, do you know who he is? On the other hand, they're like a universal destiny unit, the Ence and the People's Party. That's the dilemma, that's the conflict. But it must be remembered that it wasn't always like this, at least with respect to the factory placement. For a long time, you, the People's Party, defended a stance contrary to what you are defending now, a position, by the way, coincident with what you have always defended the BNG, which has not changed there, does not change. For you have defended, with agreements from the Council of the Union, with agreements from this Parliament, unanimous agreements, and also with agreements published in the CEO and with the programmes of the People's Party themselves, that the factory had to leave the river Pontevedra, or not? Was it like that or not? 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. You repeatedly defended that the factory had to get out of the stream of Pontevedra and then changed. And why did you change the position of the Union and the People's Party? Do you know why you've changed? He changed because they were given orders from Madrid, they were given orders from the rotating doors, they were ordered by the IBEX, they were given orders from the People's Party that they had to stop defending the interests of the people of Greece, the river Pontevedra, they had to defend the interests of Ence. And this will always be like a post in your existence, in your consciences, and as a scandalous example of betrayal to Galicia; you cannot call it otherwise, Mr. Count. That was treason to Galicia, when you approved one of the greatest infamy that was committed in Galicia's contemporary history, which was that indecent extension taken on the last day, in the last minute, in the last second, by a government in functions, which cannot be done so, contrary to the law, and with the favorable report, by the Committee of Galicia. Well, now five years have passed from this unfortunate fact and we're in another context, we're in a different time, in a new time that is marked by the imminence of a court ruling on this issue and also by other conditioning, by other environmental and legal requirements as well. And the reality for the BNG is clear, for the Town Hall of Pontevedra too, for many more people too, and it's just that Ence can't go on in the stream of Pontevedra and we have to look for alternatives. But there is also a real possibility that a sentence will say that, and we have to work on finding alternatives and solutions. And where you see a problem we see is a great opportunity, it's made a difference, a great opportunity. And the difference is also, the problem is, too, that you, the People's Party, act as shareholders of a private company, as shareholders of Ence. And the BNG, we act as shareholders too but of a different company, of a company called Galicia. That's the big difference. And at this moment we are faced with an opportunity because we have the possibility to make one of the major decisions, if you do, one of the major decisions of economic and environmental policy that can be adopted at this time in this country, with a broad view, with ambition, with a vision of the future, with boldness, Mr. Conde, you must make this transcendental decision that can radically, positively, change the policy for the river of Pontevedra and also for the mountain of Galicia. Of course, for Pontevedra's creek because it would allow it to recover 600,000 square meters of public domain land, occupied by the factory, which, compared to 60 football fields -- if you did the dimension of what we're talking about -- and what that meant for the recovery of this connection, interrelationship, of Pontevedra and Marín, and for the laugh itself. Secondly, it would allow us to develop a new forestry policy, a new policy for the Greek mountain, which we should not forget is two-thirds of our country's territory. It's not anything. And that forest policy can't be at the service of a company, it has to be at the service of a country and of the social majority. Well, for this great operation, for this great opportunity that we have before us to make this ambitious policy, we need a government that governs, not that it opposes, as we are used to seeing you. A government that exercises as a government in this country, not as a reciprocate and as [mammary] company Ence. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions, by order of the President, on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] Because you have the skills to do it, which you try to avoid, you have the skills to manage the territory, you have the competences to deal with the environment, you have the competences to do it in industrial policy, and you have to exercise them, you can't derive them from the other side. And you have to sit with all sides, but you do it, you lead it, because I'm the German Government. To sit with the company, to sit with the company committee, which is also looking at how they told you this week the option, as a possibility, of the transfer of the factory, and also with other institutional agents, of course. This project, which is a very ambitious project, has to be done with initiative, with momentum, and with public participation, also taking advantage of the opportunity now given to us, the possibility of hosting European funds, because one cannot leave a decision of this silence and a project of this silence in the hands and interests of a private company. And that's why Junta has to drive and lead that project, which has to be an industrial project, Mr. Conde, a project that includes closing the productive cycle with a paper factory and producing new materials. A new forest policy that bets on a living, multifunctional mountain that produces high-quality timber and also high-value added products and, of course, also a great regenerating operation of the river, decontamination and recovery of the land occupied by Elnosa and also by Ence. And, of course, we're not going into the cheating debates that the company and the People's Party are holding us, whether or not there is land. Anyway, we're going to trust a consultant who's working on the People's Party saying, it would be more missing, and from Ence! We don't trust each other, we don't trust each other, we don't get into that debate, nor about the costs the company says it would have that operation. Possibly, the costs would be much higher because we don't have to go to a small-scale operation, as the company proposed, but to a large economic and environmental transformation operation in the Pontevedra River and also in the Greek Mountains. And this can only result from advantages, what great benefits, Mr. Count, and they have to see it like this. Of course, it's an operation that would have an impact on economics and job creation that would be impressive. Creating jobs and jobs in the sea that have now been lost, hundreds of jobs in the shellfish and bass fishing that could be recovered. Also groundwork, with all that great urban operation of recovery of the land occupied by the factory, its decontamination and its regeneration. Also hundreds of jobs, thousands of jobs, I'd say, in a new policy for the mountain, that you're not doing, because you're betting on a single letter, which is what IBEX told them. And finally, many more, hundreds more jobs in industrial policy and in the forest industry and in that new factory that would be done with the whole cycle. So, Mr. Conde, I end with a question that summarizes all the questions we have already asked you in the interpellation: will you stand before this process, this project?, will you take advantage of this opportunity that we have?, will you defend the common interest or will you continue as you have so far defended the interests of Ence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u194	Thank you, Mr Bará. It's not about getting into controversy, Mr. Bará, but there's a word that is -- I, I've been paying attention to the debate -- the word "majors" of the company Ence. I think that word injures the dignity of a group and I would also ask you to remove it. If it's possible we'll remove it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u195	That word has a literal meaning, a sense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u196	Like the one in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u197	...literal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u198	Then we removed her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u199	In the literal sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u200	Thank you. That expression is withdrawn. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bará. After finding out that the question about Ence was not very interesting to you, that you used a good part of your intervention in talking about other issues, the truth is that the Galician Council and the Parliamentary Group were not very clear to us if you were willing to condemn this campaign "Let's raid with Jacob. " I think I had, and you have, a great opportunity, since the situation of the workers of Ence, those who have not appointed at any time -- neither the workers of Ence, nor the carriers, nor the workers of the Harbour Authority of Marín, nor the woodland of Galicia -- since all this, to you and to the Nationalist Block of Wales does not interest them, has an opportunity in the reply to condemn the campaign "Rachemos co-Jacobeo", because neither Galicia nor all the efforts that the Greeks and the Greeks are making to develop a vision of this gentle Galicia and that cordial Galicia deserves the Galego Nationalist Block to condemn this situation and this permanent work by Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, it's often the ones that, in a simple opportunistic way, you bring the situation of the Ence here. And I'm going to summarize it, because we've probably talked a lot about it, but I think there are three pretty clear questions that I think probably summarize the situation. You're talking about conflict of interest. There is indeed a conflict of interest between the general interest in employment and the interest of the Galician Nationalist Block in destroying industry in Galicia. That's the conflict of interests in which we logically -- yes, it's true -- we're shareholders of the interests of the Greeks -- of the general interest of the Greeks -- and we're shareholders in the defense of employment. Unfortunately, you are simply trying to close industrial companies in Galicia for a purely ideological theme. Second, a fallacy of the Galician Nationalist Block, which, as much as it repeats, will not really become. Are you talking about the environmental impact, and I would simply ask you why the Galego Nationalist Block, being part of the Galician Union within the Bipartite Government, approved the integrated environmental authorization of Ence in 2008? What has changed from an environmental point of view? What's the difference? It's simply a purely ideological position against Ence, against industrial employment. And thirdly, we are, Mr Bará, before a political decision. A Government, the Government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and Podemos, supported by the Galician Nationalist Block, which makes the political decision to close Ence. That, simply, is a responsibility we don't share. And if I were to tell you that, once a government makes a decision, it has to take the consequences as well and it has to introduce all the elements in order to correct it. And, therefore, what I ask you -- and I ask the Socialist Party and I ask Podemos -- is where is that alternative, where is the alternative for the Greek forest sector and for the workers of Ence. And, above all, where are the European Funds Next Generation that is centralizing the Socialist Party and that does not make available those alternatives that you transfer? So, I think we're in a situation where, from a purely ideological point of view, you're taking, from a negative point of view, to the rights of the workers of Ence to further develop their activity, and above all, a decision that can cause enormous damage to the forest sector in our country. And I regret that two political parties that say they defend the Greek interests are simply joining in order to close an industry that generates 800 jobs in Pontevedra, in Marín and Poio, and that it has an impact on the forest sector of more than 5,000 jobs in Galicia. They did it in 2018, we don't forget. We do not forget how the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block closed Elnosa, from which they depended around 400 direct and indirect companies. We don't forget because our general interest, Mr Bará, is the job. You follow with that greenish sign that simply responds to old stereotypes and that nothing has to do with current reality, nothing, absolutely nothing. And nothing has to do with it and they're not measuring the consequences of promoting changes without a solution. You have a rather simple and damaging policy: first boycott; then you close companies; and finally you intend to transfer responsibilities to the Council of Galicia. But, look, Mr Bará, we know how to read between lines, we know how to read between lines as well; and we know perfectly well that the recipes of the Socialist Party, the Galician Nationalist Block and We can simply assume unemployment, unemployment and more unemployment. And, of course, it doesn't contain the People's Party, because we're clear that the need for Galicia right now is to generate jobs and not destroy what we have. So, I think the debate you bring here is a sterile debate, at no time have you named -- simply by respect -- the workers of the Ence, you didn't -- by respect -- the forest sector. And simply, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialist Party will have to assume the direct consequences of their actions. And what I'd like to see is that you were in Pontevedra, you were looking into the eyes of the workers of Cence, that they were in the Bridges, that they were looking into the workers of the bridge power station, and they'd probably have to really think about the ideological decisions they're making against the employment in Galicia. An irresponsibility that I don't think Galicia deserves and, of course, it's not worth having two political parties that simply defend purely ideological aspects against that general interest that is ours. We're going to continue to defend the continuity of Ence, and we're going to continue to defend the continuity of Ence where the company says it's the only place where you can possibly have that industrial placement. And, therefore, if you intend to close Ence, you can move it quietly, but don't lean on the ecological transition; no, no, no, that's an excuse that on the neck, Mr Bará, on the neck! And it's good enough to use the environment simply to shut down companies. We will continue to seek ways to ensure the continuity of the biofactory in the Pontevedra River. They show their guarantees from the environmental point of view and from the point of view of industrial safety. And, unfortunately, the hidden interests that BNG has trying to close Ence will explain them at its own time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u202	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica. Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u203	Mr. Conde, you say this is a job conflict. So I accept the question; yes, there is a conflict over employment. I've already told you and I've already proposed here various initiatives and formulas to multiply employment, to create more jobs, because we're worried about this issue. And I assure you, you could multiply up to 3 jobs with the BNG proposals. And you say it's ideology. Of course it's ideology, ideology is what you do serving the interests of Ence, serving the interests of IBEX, following the interests of capital. That's ideology! That's book ideology. And, of course, ideology is to defend the transfer of the company, but when you did, wasn't it ideology? Because you also defended the transfer, or have you lost your memory? And, look, they defended the transfer, besides, at the time of the worst economic crisis, much worse than the current one in terms of job losses, which reached almost 30% unemployment. And at that moment, you agreed, at a board of assembly held in Pontevedra by the way, to defend the transfer of the company, and said that famous phrase Mr. Fexóo -- that I do not resist to say it again here and say it as often as necessary -- : "Ence can't continue in the stream of Pontevedra. We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite." That's what the People's Party's word is all about. It's not worth anything, it's not worth nothing! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And we approve it here in a unanimous agreement in Parliament. You put it black on white. Look, this is the 2012 People's Party program. Was it ideology when you put this on paper? [[Mr Bará shows a leaflet.]] Was it ideology or was it? Now that we said it is ideology, but when you said it, you weren't ideology. It was a joke, wasn't it? Now you talk to me about environmental quality, because you're the discoverers of environmental quality, look at what they put in the program: "The policy adopted in relation to the situation of the company Ence will continue in the stream of Pontevedra. After agreeing to Elnosa's orderly exit in the legislation completed in 2012, PPdG maintains its bet so that Ence abandons its current placement." Mr. Conde, put on the People's Party program in 2012, in a terrible crisis, with the loss of thousands of jobs. Is that what it was? Was it a coat of hair? This knows what it was, it was treason. What they did after was a betrayal to Galicia, a betrayal to Pontevedra, when you disavowed what they put in your program, what they had also agreed on in the CEO, what they had also put in the Land Management Guidelines or in the Coastal Management Plan, which provides for what's planned there. And that's what we stand for, not because of eco-xism of fantasy, because it is put by the POL, the Coastal Management Plan, approved by the board in 2011. It says that there is an area of environmental and landscape improvement, that it is necessary to recover and regenerate those lands. It says an instrument of urban management of Galicia and therefore it must comply; and that's what BNG defends. Well, Mr. Count, you're talking about opportunism. Nothing opportunism, we're talking about opportunity, because there's a chance right now. There's a real possibility that you don't want to see, they're blinded there with their ears defending the cover and sword the interests of the company and they don't want to see anything else; also in the debate on placement. But who can believe that the only place in Galicia where there can be a pastry -- the president of the board said that there should be two, to see where he's going to put the other -- are public land in the stream of Pontevedra and Lourizán? That there is nowhere else in Galicia to put a pastry factory and also to complete the cycle; that is what we have to do, close the cycle and make a paper factory and many other derived products that can be done with the enormous wealth that our mountain has. That you do not take advantage of because we actually have 50% of the cuts, but we only have 13% of the invoicing and employment. Then something fails there, don't you see it? And I did refer to the company committee and the workers, who are also telling them -- I don't know, they don't want to hear it, they just listen to the president of Ence, they only hear the capital -- which, in the case of an unfavorable judgment for the interests of the company, they defend the transfer of the factory. And we have to get to work on it, we think we have to get to work on much more, with much greater ambition and vision for the future. Because there's a lot more to be done than moving a factory, that's a limited, short-sighted, childish vision. Much more needs to be done, we have to take a full turn to forest policy, to mountain politics, to industrial policy and to Pontevedra's river policy. And you have to design a great operation, as other cities have done, to turn that problem into a great opportunity, that's reality. That's what you're not, Mr. Count. And I'm done with a statement that also summarizes what's going on. This is about the need to choose, because the policy is to choose between different options. To choose, on the one hand, the River of Pontevedra, the interests of Pontevedra, the interests of the social majority, the interests of Galicia; or to choose the interests of the board of directors of Ence and the rotational gates. So far you've been in this position but you have the chance, the chance, the opportunity, to change, there's a golden opportunity to do so. And if they don't do it out of their own will, they're going to have to do it because of social pressure and because of the need for a sentence that will put them, whether they want it or not, working on all of this that we're proposing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u204	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u205	All right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bará, it is noted that the Galician Nationalist Block does not reject the "Rachemos co Xacobeo" campaign. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] The most curious -- not to say pathetic -- is to see the Galician Nationalist Block being and acting as a defender of the Socialist Party and of Podemos. This is really curious and really surprising. And, Mr Bará, we with Ence have only one objective and I think we are showing it quite clearly, which is to defend companies, to defend the jobs linked to Ence in this case, and to defend employment in Pontevedra. The only ones who are betraying these families are you, and that's what's going to remain in your curriculum, in the Galician Nationalist Block curriculum, as one of the blackest decisions of industry in Galicia. And I only hope that the National Court and the courts will be able to corroborate that, indeed, that decision of extension of the concession is adjusted to legality and that, therefore, those jobs may have their continuity; and, of course, we will continue to defend it. And if it's about choosing, which is actually about choosing, what do you want?, industrial jobs in Pontevedra or Asturias? That's the decision we have to make. It seems that the Socialist Party intends to relocate these jobs to Asturias, perhaps there is some explanation that can be moved to us, but on the other hand... from there we go into the arguments, I didn't listen to any of them. Because the only argument you intend to move right now for the closure of Ence is the environment. And my question is where's the environmental problem. If in 2008, when you authorize and approve environmental authorization, integrated, there was no environmental problem, right now? Is there an environmental problem now? Where? Are you talking about creating jobs related to forest policy and ecological transition? That's what we are. But why do you have to close Ence? For an ideological decision, purely ideological. They're taking their decisions! And they do not try to deceive or divert attention because the finding is quite obvious. In any case -- as I told you -- you really are the only ones who are changing their position. Why is there now an environmental problem? [[Murmurs.]] Is there an environmental problem now? [[Laughter]] When you were in the Bipartite there was not, now there is, that is to change your position in a truly surprising way. It would also be good to know, really, what's that hidden reason -- because it's a hidden reason -- why the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialist Party are putting more than a hundred companies at risk on the coast of Galicia. We will continue to defend the companies settled on the coast and hope that you will not be able to move forward in that direction, because the only thing that would be to continue to generate unemployment in Galicia. So they know that it's key to the development of the forest sector across Galicia and we, of course, will continue to defend those 5,100 jobs generated in Galicia by the Pontevedra biofactory, all the impact that is generated in the wood-producing companies -- 1,800 companies hired in Galicia -- and, above all, all those families that receive some kind of benefit from the sale of the wood from Ence. And so I think that debate -- which is a fictitious debate -- that you want to open now, about the alternative to the current location, knowing it's impossible and knowing it's the company itself that's moving its inability to, just lead us to a decision that would have an irreversible impact from the point of view of industrial employment. So we will continue to appeal to the Socialist Party, to the Galician Nationalist Block and to the Podemos to correct them. Corrigendum, Mr Bará, you can also succeed, and dialogue can also be correct. And, therefore, in the face of that bad decision, surely if we focus on the general interest and focus on the jobs linked to Ence, you'd probably change your current position. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u206	Thank you, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Cumulative debate of two interpellations We are now debating two interpellations in a cumulative way. Interpellation of the Mercedes Complaints Zas and three other Members, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the nomination of World Heritage nominations by UNESCO The following is added to the previous one: Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, of the G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the candidatures of the heritage that obtain international recognition
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u207	He begins by formulating the interpellation he gives Mercedes Complaints, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u208	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. If I had to put a title to this interpellation, it would be "no worse deaf than you don't want to hear," or "no worse blind than you don't want to see." And surely if you're asking why this choice of me, Counselor, and the reason is simple: your lack of vision, your lack of hearing and your lack of word before the episode we just lived in which we can only qualify in the BNG as an important discredit for Galicia. That's why I even thought in a subtitle that it would be "to talk about me even if it's wrong." Our headline doesn't respond -- I assure you -- to subjective impressions and evaluations, no, it responds to the objective of reading, to the literality of what we qualify in the BNG as a severe report of the International Council of Monuments and Sites, the ICOMOS, who qualified the candidacy of the Sacred River as a World Heritage Site, driven by the board of Galicia. It's been over a month since the record of our first interpellation, of course, we were able to read the ICOMOS Report once it was made public. But I have to say publicly here that we can't get access to the candidacy that he has drawn up and pushed Galician Union, of course, to register our petition. Reading turned the initial suspicions into evidence summarizing the report into a word: failure. We immediately registered a request for appearance in this plenary session of the Counsellor for Culture, but -- as you well know -- the People's Party vetoed that appearance. We've also registered new initiatives, of course, with questions for written answers, but -- as it's also being usual, it's been coming through this whole session -- neither have these answers come up. It is good to see that the delay in reading this report has made us feel a deep ally shame, only relieved with frequent stops to try to assimilate what is described in this detailed report. I wish the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party in this House too had read it to understand my words well, but above all to understand the extent and severity of the facts we know and of what you, Counselor, have spoken, yes, I think in Madrid and Paris, but not in Galicia; and, of course, in any case, he didn't explain anything. Today, the Greek people continue without knowing by their mouth what reasons they were that prevented this candidacy from flourishing. And it's surprising when, precisely, the People's Party has no problems getting their messages to Greek society mediated, that's already reserved for the main force of opposition and for the alternative of government that we're representing in the BNG. Because, indeed, there are many, many -- all of them, I could say -- the still unanswered questions of this one that we can call as a collective failure as well; indeed, collective failure, but -- we don't forget -- with names and surnames. For example, why is this lack of transparency, this opacity before what is the failure of a candidacy that had generated the highest expectation in both the Sacred Ribeira and throughout Galicia? Who wrote this application? How was the competition, selection and adjudication process? How much did it cost us for the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks? Who will realize such incompetence paid with public funds? Who is going to assume technical and political responsibilities of which, without a doubt, is an absolute coward? What investments have been made?, how?, where?, with what criteria?, after that announcement to allocate 34 million euros in a plan coordinated by an interdepartmental commission created ad hoc for this purpose where -- if I don't remember bad -- 6 councils participated. What was also about the announced Strategic Plan of the Sacred Ribeira? That we try, by the way, to contrast on his website and the screen tells us, today, yes, tomorrow too, that this page does not exist. Everything seems to be going on, unfortunately, there is no such page because there is no plan and that is why today there is no candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira for the Heritage of Humanity. President Feijóo has publicly acknowledged, in statements and interviews, that the recommendation made by ICOMOS not to register the Sacred Ribeira as a World Heritage Site was -- literally -- "a reverse and not a minor." And in private, he's also admitted gravity by claiming he hasn't gone through this candidacy. In the middle of the road you are, Counselor, and there you are tempering this collective failure by twisting up to exhaustion the lexicon-semantics, arguing a malabarous justification saying it is a strategic settlement. We understand that this strategic approach refers to its strategy of programming silence as the cultivation broth of progressive collective amnesia, but it is wrong that summer's heat does not help us to forget! But the truth is, Mr. Counselor, is that out there the summer heats don't come; you know that piece of the Resented, Galicia's different place. [[Applause]] And this happens in an extended year when the Greek cultural heritage should indeed be the main claim for our projection in the world. That entry door that represents our heritage, of own entrance to our culture by so many people who actually wish to visit us. And a heritage tradition in -- I assure you -- where BNG not only believes but also recognizes it. That spin door that represents for us, indeed, the Greek cultural heritage that backs us with other cultures of the world, with all the cultures of the world since the Middle Ages. Far away from these other rotating doors that we have to appeal to here again to expropriate and spy on governments who always have one foot on the board of the board of joints and another on the board of directors of those companies. ICOMOS -- we keep it always present -- is an external body, it's a UNESCO advisory entity. And he portrays in this report -- unfortunately for us -- the decadent profile of the policies practiced by the People's Party in the last 12 years in the Government of Unity, always turned from the back to the care of our territory. And they've been compromising our future demographic, social, landscape, economic and, of course, also heritage, as it is now ratified! Finally, ICOMOS denounced the lack of political heritage planning of the People's Party in the Union; of course, it understands this planning in the sense of its care, protection and worth. The final words of the report are, Counsellor, a demolition sentence for the BNG, because literally it says: "ICOMOS recommends that the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira not be inscribed on the list of the World Heritage Site." Here's the first reflection you need to make, this recommendation is not a point and you know it; this decision knows it's more than likely point and end. They therefore abandon their political sovereignty and begin to stand out in the comforting practice of learning with humility and empathy with all of them, listening to the people and listening to the collectives who know the Sacred Ribeira as a whole. If we had, we'd probably not be going through this collective shame now. Because, indeed, it was seen, everyone saw it coming; it did not surprise the one so analyzed has the Sacred Ribeira and presented reports and presented numerous allegations. Counselor, to all of them, you answered alone and exclusively with silence or with the trap of some little makeup in a photograph to justify some of the demands that were made from ICOMOS. At the BNG we are convinced that, if I had taken them into account, today we would have another much more positive result for the Sacred Ribeira and for Galicia. There is no more to read the report of the Galeg Culture Council or the report of the Association of the Medieval Heritage, the smile of Daniel; by the way, a fundamental collective in the study and defence of the heritage to which you in 2018 have recognized the Galeg Culture Prize to initiatives for cultural heritage. Indeed, where are we now?, where are we now? A missed opportunity. Maybe it makes me think the same thing as what failed is that this candidacy was missing a second title, just as if it were the Holy Rebekah Jacobo if you would have put a lot more attention. [[Applause]] The candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira -- I'm finishing -- has unfortunately become a country's methonymity, a reflection of how the People's Party's politics is intervening in the degradation of Galicia. The depopulation, changes and aggressions of the landscape, the reforestation, the footprint of invasive species, the impact of high-voltage wind currents and lines, tourist pressure or forest fires are some of the reasons that become arguments for the ICOMOS recommend to put a stop to this candidacy. Its electoral motto -- Galicia, Galicia, Galicia -- now complete: Galiza agada, Galicia deforested, Galicia sacrificed. [[Applause]] ICOMOS gave them the opportunity to amend errors, to answer clarifications, to provide additional documentation on several occasions. And yet, you, Counselor, have not been able to demonstrate what is fundamental in this process, the universal high value of the Sacred Ribeira as a cultural landscape. So they buy answers, they have to take responsibility, and above all they have to learn to correct. You now have your time and opportunity to explain why they have submitted an incomplete candidacy, lack of rigor, unhindered, ambitious, incoherent candidacy, which has excluded the central artistic element and the common denominator of the area as is the romantic art, which ignores the deplorable state of conservation of many of the goods mentioned above, which excludes the nuclei of population and which, above all, lacks the necessary and indispensable citizen collaboration. We trust, Counsellor, that you take this opportunity to make a deep self-criticism about the reasons that brought us to this situation and of which they are responsible first and last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] I now give the floor to Mrs Díaz Varela of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u210	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. I, before I started, wanted to thank you again -- I did it yesterday -- for your presence in that debate on the University Law, which finally came out approved in a way -- in my view -- that breaks all the rules of democratic play, as I did yesterday publicly. And I begin by thanking him for not exactly the same thing happened to the Equality Counsellor, who was absent during the debate of two vital laws in our country, and also directly concerned her. Well, let's get to the point we're dealing with today. And it is that we debate again, Counselor, and today we will have some more time, because after our question of last plenary we were left with a lot of doubts unsolved. And I'll go ahead, because I'll take your answers that day a bit like the driving thread of my intervention. We're not using this topic politically, not at all, what we do is show our deep concern at this project; and not only with this one but also with three others who are also waiting. I'm not going to come in today to name the excellences of the Sacred Ribeira that make her worthy of that recognition of world heritage because we don't have time to do it, but I don't think there's any doubt that it is. What we're trying to do today is you figure out what the board is running -- or what it's not doing, we'll see at the end what it tells us --. The first thing to say is that the withdrawal of the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira to the Heritage of Humanity is the demonstration of Mr. Feijóo's government's inability to draft a sufficiently solvent project. And as I say, that concerns us and concerns us very much, because, in order to have this world recognition, it's not only useful that heritage, cultural, landscape-like asset is exceptional -- of which we have no doubt -- the question is that we have to prove it, we have to document it. And here it's seen that you haven't done that good work that you'd have to have done, with all that it means and with all that it's supposed to be. And we didn't say it, and I also exposed it here by the BNG spokesman, I already expressed it by ICOMOS in his report -- I don't remember very well what the qualifier he used -- and for us, of course, it's a demolition report -- is the word --. That report from ICOMOS, which, apart from some aspect that, obviously, is true that it's wrong -- you already said it and I'm also going to go ahead with what I can say next --. There is a mistake in that report on ICOMOS which, of course, will have to be amended. But what ICOMOS does is to question the essence of the project, that conceptualization to which you referred 15 days ago and which makes us foolish. Because 25 years since this candidacy entered the indicative list, of course, we think that it's enough time to have crafted a solid project and, of course, well conceptualized. If the problem is the concept, they've had time. You were talking about the problem is that concept of the landscape that we haven't fully understood. And we told him that UNESCO regulations are well crafted that conceptual issue, where they already talk about changing landscapes by natural action, and also by human action. But, of course, we're going to be great: how is this project going to be well crafted if the people in the area, the municipalities, the cultural fabric, the economic fabric and even the Members have no idea of it? How are you going to be well crafted? We're not talking about a wall or a cathedral, Counselor, we're talking about a living cultural landscape, and it's alive because people are living there that interact with that territory. And if those people weren't called to participate in the process, how would they get to that concept? How would they get there? No one knows the project presented, and you know well that no one knows the project presented, and when I say no one says; none of them should, of course. And I'm not talking about the project itself, which I can understand there are equal confidentiality clauses; and we too, like BNG, want to see that project. I'm not talking about it anymore, we're talking about the strategic lines of that project, what information do the municipalities have, Counselor? What information do they have? What information does the cultural tissue have in that area? What information do they have? You said, besides, without any kind of smell, that this complaint we make about the absence of participation is either a joke or a lack of knowledge I know -- she said the other day --. Of course, we repeat to him that he tells us exactly who, when and how he met with the people in the area. Stop lying, Counselor, and accuse us that we are doing it because it's not true. Unless you, of course, refer to those cases with keys that your advisor organized to take the picture there and launch a press release in which there was only will and many empty words, nothing else. Or it could also be that he referred to that interdepartmental commission created ad hoc to drive and strengthen that candidacy. The BNG voicer spoke of six advisories, and I counted 7 -- that's equal to 6 or 7, so much gives --. And about which we would also like to know how many times it has met in a crucial year for the candidacy; and, if that meeting has been held -- or those meetings, if they have existed --, I don't know if you can tell us who has attended other local bodies and entities present in the territory such as councils, consortia, deputies, associations, or bishops, as set out in the decree to create this commission. We do not say so, it appears in that decree, a decree explaining that one of the objectives of this commission is to be the channel for the active participation of local communities in the territory of the Holy Ribeira. I ask you why at that plenary session you also announced that from September on, when they resume all this again, "they will correct, they will channel..." -- they are literal words -- "...and they will adjust the project in full collaboration and with the complicity of the agents of the territory..." -- and that gives us the laughter -- "...with scientific and divulging meetings that seek greater involvement of citizenship." Of course, that indicates that up until now it has not been done, you said, you didn't say so. Who do you intend to cheat on with all this? A conceptual problem, do you really think and look at that this is all a conceptual problem? You also say -- and we also refer to -- that with this strategic arrangement there will be more time to move forward in order to continue to make the Sacred River a more lively, more careful and more recognized territory all over the world. Well, this deserves a separate, because it says so too without any kind of smell. And we wondered what they've done all this time? What did they do? What silent actions have they put in place to take care of the heritage contours, to maintain the wine-growing activity and, therefore, also the landscape? What have they done to promote non-invasive alien species, to form the staff dedicated to tourism so that it is sustainable and respectful of the environment? Or to activate, for example, Romanian recovery, rehabilitation and restoration programs? That romantic that appears pretty little -- we suppose -- in that project. And we're only quoting a few. What have you done so far, gentlemen? Because what is true and you can also tell us -- that we also ask you in this interpellation --, please tell us that this is the plan of the Sacred Ribeira: where?, for whom?, when?, and how are those 34 million euros going to be distributed? We want to see that document, we want to see that action plan, because we're sure it doesn't exist on paper. What they did was to add actions that already existed and that were certainly programmed by various councils, but as a plan does not exist. And I'm telling you something: this plan is necessary, it's very necessary, not only to move forward in the candidacy but also to develop and protect the Sacred River, which for us, of course, is already a world heritage. We want this to continue to be, and that's why this plan is needed, so we have to move on and stop being intelligent and, by the way, underestimate the intelligence of this parliamentary group and, above all, of the institutions and civil society of the Sacred Ribeira. You've done what you've done has been doing your own exciting project that has driven the Deputation of Lugo a decade ago to take the picture again, but we know very well that the involvement has been null and so proved until a few years ago, until a couple of years ago, in which they decided to relaunch it with sun gifts, bloating plans, dreams in the form of Next Generation funds, and a final project that makes water everywhere. And, well, down here to the Sacred River and the questions we had raised in the interpellation you already have. Now the following concern: we have three more applications that opt for this recognition: Anchores-Somiedo -- which was included in the indicative list in 2007 -- ; the Iron of Illustration, the same year as well; and the National Park of the Atlantic Islands-Cies, in 2018. So if we welcome the Holy Ribeira but we continue with this candidacy from September -- which, by the way, you know, don't cheat, it won't be so simple, this isn't a year or two, this can bring a lot of queue and extend much over time -- what about the other three galleys? I say it more than anything because, of course, we must also consider who presents it is the Government of Spain, who has 31 pendants, 4 of them are Welsh but still has 31 pendants. Can we trust Mr. Feijóo's government or must we also fear that management for all of them will be the same as he did with the Sacred River? Do you think you're talking to the municipalities, to your cultural fabric, to your socio-economic fabric? Or are you going to keep all these people out? Look -- it's over, the time is over -- in the PSdeG, of course, we're convinced and convinced of our country's cultural and landscape excellence; that, no doubt, deserves all the world's recognition. That's what we're sure of. But I have to tell you that we look with great pessimism towards the future, with pessimism and with great concern for the disinterest of this government that we have now, presided over by Mr Feijóo, for our heritage. Be careful because we are playing a lot, at least the cultural future of our country and, therefore, of our children and daughters, grandchildren and other generations! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u212	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth that this parliamentary session, in the end, is another opportunity to explain all the work done and carried out by the Government in the momentum of the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira and all that remains to be done. And do it with total transparency and complete humility. And also -- as I said in the previous parliamentary session -- we are willing to count as many times as necessary, because I think we all want the same thing, that territory is declared Human Heritage. We understand that this is a project that is still alive, that is still underway, that has an illusion, that is a challenge of country and a challenge of the future. And what we'd like, right? We'd like to count on you, but after listening to them, the truth is I think you're more happy if this project fails it goes ahead. Certainly, we have taken many positive steps to reach the last point, which is to value and protect the Sacred Ribeira. This Government, like the Deputies of Lugo and Ourense, like the Government of the State, like all the municipalities, like the neighbours, we believe in the potential of the Sacred Ribeira, and that is why we started this project and started this challenge. And I am sure that the decision to push this candidacy was tremendously positive for the Sacred Ribeira, all the indicators show that the positive and transformative impact that the candidacy is already having on the territory and its inhabitants, the management of this candidacy. And, of course, we will continue to travel with illusion and with work and with humility on this path so that the Sacred Ribeira will get as early as possible and with the greatest possible assurances of UNESCO's maximum recognition. It is true that the progress made firmly, that the firm steps we have taken in contrast with the report issued by ICOMOS in the last step. This is a document made by a technical advisory body which is public, which can be consulted. And also surprised us, their conclusions surprised us clearly, perhaps by the good pace that all the procedure took until we got here. And in any case, ladies and gentlemen, out of that catastrophe, not including a candidacy on the final committee is not something unique, novice, it's quite normal despite that catastrophic vision that you have proposed. It is a normal thing that has happened in Spain, for example, with Priorat, when [...], for example, or even at the international level, with the landscape very similar to [...] with Italy, who retired and a couple of years later pulled it out. I, in truth, regret the lack of country vision and the pessimism of the Galician Nationalist Block. The truth is, I'm surprised because, in fact, on the territory, the Nationalist Block Galego stood against BIC's statement. Curious, a lot of talk about heritage, preservation, conservation... and the block at the local level did actions to try to position itself and prevent a BIC, there were posters, there were posters and photographs. And, of course, you're talking about rectification, you see it coming... you're even doing a chance to say, if it were the Holy River Jacoba. The Sacred Ribeira is Jacobea, the Sacred Ribeira passes a path, the Winter Road, and if they talk about Xacobeo, and if they talk about rectification, I think you corrected very little ago a campaign that was precisely aimed at disparaging the Xacobeo. It's quite frankly curious, and they're talking about rectification and it's already seen coming... because that's what you've done in this field; when, by the way, the Way of Santiago -- just like the statement of the Sacred River -- if anything is, it's an element of integral dynamization of the rural territory where it goes. [[Applause]] In any case, and I think that in a manner consistent with the whole process we have done, we have a strategic approach, and it is a coordinated decision -- that is why I am also surprised by what the Socialist Party says -- a decision coordinated with the Government of Spain, through the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the Spanish ambassador to UNESCO. And there's nothing but listening to Mr. Perelló's statements, considering why we have agreed jointly. Unless Mr. Perelló is not from the Socialist Party -- which I understand is -- I think you should reflect on this criticism. In any case, I think the explanations have been given. There's a conceptual error, a different conceptual vision, and I think the arrangement was explained and gave its face with total transparency. First of all, at UNESCO's own headquarters with the Spanish ambassador, whose statements are there and they are nothing like what you say, at all, they look like an absolutely different party. Second, they were explained to all the mayors of the Sacred Ribeira immediately afterwards and to the main agents of the territory; by the way, they all supported this line of work. Thirdly, it has been explained, in this case, to the members of the UNESCO Committee itself, who are the political leaders of the decision, and in this case to ambassadors from different countries. We have been absolutely transparent. And I think we've already said it, there are two elements: on the one hand, the dams that are in the area; and on the other hand, demortization, in a concept different from what is understood by a living cultural landscape. In no case are the prey hidden -- in no case -- in the file, planted, told of their ability to transform and integrate into the landscape. And the same goes for demortization, as historically the process of secular occupation along the monasteries has produced a progressive occupation of the slopes of the Sacred Ribeira. The ICOMOS report in no case and on no line doubts the protection of the territory; it is more, neither the management of the territory nor the planning of the territory, it is more, it classifies them as positive. It's also true that in the ICOMOS report there are errors, for example, there are 10 swamps -- there are 3 -- there are wind farms -- there are no --. Ladies and gentlemen, you can make politics with almost everything but doing bad politics on this matter really makes no sense. We understand -- and so we're going to keep doing it -- that this territory has unique and exceptional values. And, obviously, what we have to keep looking at is the future, as we did in other files, which is nothing new at the national or international level. Dialogue, explain the issues that could not be understood in this case by the technical body of ICOMOS, do it with complete humility, correct also possible mistakes, and defend those aspects in which we think we are right. We have to reformulate -- we've already said it -- to get back more forcefully and do it with more illusion, and do it as we've done so far: with local participation and in coordination with the Government of the State. There are factors that play on our factor. The Spanish Historical Heritage Council itself proposed a 5-year moratorium to introduce new candidatures. Right now there are five applications in this case and we have five years to get them out of the way, new candidatures will not be able to be introduced into the list proposed to the ICOMOS committee. This makes you think there's confidence in getting ahead and there's the feasibility of this proposal. The truth is that it saddens me that you don't have confidence in this proposal, in an attitude that -- as I've already said -- shocks, especially in the case of the Socialist Party, with the interests of the Government of the State. And I'm going to tell you what literally a prominent member of the Government of Spain said, as is the ambassador to UNESCO: "the candidacy has density, quality and is well established." The technicians who have drawn up this candidacy, along with the Joining Technicians, are the technicians of the Ministry of Culture. Since the year 2019, this candidacy has been not only of the Union, it is of the Union and it is of the State; I am surprised that the Socialist Party has challenged a state candidacy; it is part and part of and is a candidate of the Government of Spain. You obviously think in the past, your only goal is to blame Junta, to seek a short-term political income. For our part, we look forward to the future and we will continue to work as we have done so far, with participation and always based on the truth. It's not tolerable, it can't be tolerated, it's not tolerable to say there was no participation. It's not tolerable! You pose, says here, and even accuses us of lying. [[Murmurs.]] I ask you to correct for a simple reason: there were 36 formal meetings with local agents, 36!; in some of them I personally participated with mayors, with institutions, with business organizations, with cultural groups, with associations of producers of D.O. 36! I insist, with some I was personally, and my team directed all, formal, summoned, and then many more. You're talking about what no one knows about the file. But how can that be said? There was a BIC statement, for example, which is the basis of the file, the public exhibition. Do you know how many allegations there have been? 30 allegations. In the larger BIC file of our history, and we accept almost 80% of the allegations, and even some of them have given us feet to initiate files that you question, how to propose the declaration of the Romanesque of the Sacred River as a set of cultural interests that will end this year 2021. You guys talk about ears and you talk about what you'd like to say or what you'd like to be, but really when you check with the data I'm surprised at. They're talking about a commission that has never been constituted. Hey, this commission was set up about a year ago. In his statutes he says that his meeting of the Main Council must be held once a year. It has already been done in 2020, in the year 2021 we will still have time, with which we are absolutely fulfilling the agreement. You're talking about a Sacred River Plan, which is an invention, that there are 34 million, that there are 7 programs, that there are so many actions, that there is no investment... you, I don't know, I think the plan has been available all over the world, it has been presented to the mayors, it's hung on the website... and that's not the most important thing, the most important thing is that it's investing itself. And if you took the plan and looked at the investments being made in the Sacred River, you'd realize that about 90% of the actions of the year 2020 are being developed. 90% of the shares raised in the Sacred Ribeira Plan for the year 2020 are in the process of development, and those of the same 2021. With which, really, you can say what you want but doubt other issues and the support of Joina to all this territory, when it's set in motion -- on the other side, obviously, because we're facing a cross-sectional project -- a pact by landscape, an ADI, a tourist sustainability plan; that you thought you were not doing anything on the Sacred River because it's really surprising. And even it seems to them bad that a 40 million-euro Next Generation project was launched, before there was any kind of planning or position-fixing on the part of ICOMOS. It's 40 million euros and it's forwarded to the Ministry. Perhaps someday the Socialist Party gives us a joy saying that if we accept this project, we hope so. And within that project, protection is planted and valued at heritage, landscape, environmental level... In any case, you, Mrs. Díaz, ask us if we can trust the Government. And I'm going to tell you one thing: in this particular case -- at least until now -- I trust the Government of Spain, in this particular case, because all the actions, all the decisions that have been made have been carried out in a consensual and agreed manner between both sides. Because I repeat that since 2019 this is the candidacy of the Kingdom of Spain, pushed by Galicia? yes; but coordinated, elaborate, managed, planned and executed together. And all the adjectives so beautiful that he dedicated to us -- because here I say he dedicated us to you, the Socialist Party, and to us, the People's Party -- the BNG is also dedicating them to you. Be aware of this, because you say something here, but you should ask the technicians and managers of the Ministry of Culture, or the managers -- in this case the ambassador of Spain to UNESCO -- what is the position. And then what you can't, of course, is cheap speaking: nothing was done in heritage. Since 2019, 5 million investments in heritage rehabilitation. The works are here, lots of them: Santa Noalla de Miño, Santa María de de Pesqueiras, College of Cardinal, San Vicente do Pino, Diamondi... well, Pombeiro, Portomarín, San Vicenzo de Pinol... 5 million euros only in heritage rehabilitation. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that I have no doubt that it was a reverse, it's difficult, it's something that caught us by surprise, with which we didn't count. But that doesn't mean we have to retire, that doesn't mean we have to accept what comes out of us without having time to replicate. And I think we should -- I insist -- listen to Mr. Perelló's statements to realize what we have to do, we have work to do. But, obviously, we can reformulate the candidacy and we can continue to opt for its declaration as a World Heritage Site. Obviously, there are two options: surrendering to the first and disappearing -- that's what the Block says: failure, failure, failure, failure -- you go! - Or what we can do is, hey!, raise your fists and keep working. We opt for the second and we will continue to do so as we have done so far, with participation, with humility, with transparency because we believe in this case that the effort is absolutely worthwhile. He pays tremendously because we are in front of one of the most singular, undoubtedly, territories of Galicia and that he has sovereign values. And what is obvious, that a technical report that presents a conceptual vision of what is a landscape -- on the one hand, a fossilized landscape or a living landscape -- has to lead us to reflection but it can't take us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u213	You have to finish, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u214	...to forget our responsibilities that it is, without a doubt, to continue working with everyone -- with neighbors, with civil society, with local administrations, with the Government of Spain -- how we have done so far to get this process forward. We'll keep doing it, that's our approach, and we'd like -- I insist -- to count on you. I see from your statements that will be difficult and really my main concern is the position of the Socialist Party, which clearly contrasts with what your Government does at the level of Government of Spain, both in the field of the Ministry of Culture and also in the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u215	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On the replica shift, by the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Compasses Zas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u216	Goodness, Madam President. Counsellor, thank you for subscribing the content of my intervention, since you have not refuted any of the arguments I have left here explicit in this gallery. And if you're really -- as you said -- interested in counting on the BNG I really invite you to call us without fear, I assure you that we will not let you down, as we never cheat on our work in Galicia and the Greek people. [[Applause]] Of course, you just discovered yourself in your lie identifying that negative vote of the block in the neighborhood for the BIC at the time. You know that's a lie and that's where it's portrayed and discovered. Just as the Greek people are discovering their lies, and they are becoming a greater ally of the Galician Nationalist Block and the alternative project we represent. [[Applause]] Look, Counselor, I tell you from your heart that you have just missed a great opportunity to exercise your magisterium here as a geographer. He trusted that he would be involved in the recovery of this candidacy from his knowledge and from his curricular training, from his professional experience as a doctor in Geography. Maybe it's been too long to be installed in other more abstract and distant geography of reality, which is the one we walk every day to the Greek and the Greek on foot. I was also confident that, as a Greek and as a maximum representative and political officer of the Greek culture, I would show that I have read to someone whom I deeply admire as the geographer -- among other functions -- Mr. Ramón Otero Pedrayo, surely they would have rediscovered him with the celebration of the centenary of the Nous Group. If I had read it, it would be well settled what is the main foundation and what has failed in this candidacy. Because for Mr. Ramon Otero Pedrayo the conception of the landscape -- so alive -- part of the integration of physical geography -- as you know better than me -- with human geography. Since in order to understand these living processes of the landscape of our surroundings, what happens in the territory is necessary interrelationial, one does not live unless he is in the room with the other. But we're going to what the ICOMOS report tells us, because that's the objective trait. He tells us that the candidacy failed on the basis because it literally presents an important problem of integrity, and that the conditions of integrity and authenticity of the entire series have not been met. That's what the ICOMOS report says, and these are -- you know perfectly, Counsellor -- the central elements to demonstrate the result of this candidacy, which is the exceptional universal value that the Sacred Ribeira has; it's got you, but you didn't know how to prove it. That can only be for two questions: either for lust, overconfidence, or for ignorance. In either case, let me tell you that, unfortunately, the image that transcends -- that transcends us -- is that this subject was too big for you, and that the Government didn't know or didn't want to be at the level of our cultural heritage. Let's let it be, then, report what's expressed here and now. The information provided confirms that forest fires cause significant damage to the landscape annually. Forestation has led to the loss of visual connections between monasteries and rivers, the large-scale infrastructure for energy production, with four large dams -- I literally read -- "have significantly altered the natural environment and ecosystem of landscape, geomorphology, ecosystems, and possibly even the climate of cultural and historical landscape have irreversibly altered. Depopulation, aging, entrification add an additional challenge to this candidacy." ICOMOS doesn't think it's proven any of the cultural criteria -- I insist, so there's no doubt, that I'm literally reading ICOMOS --. This is very serious, because the candidacy focused on the category of cultural landscape. The ICOMOS report says that you have not demonstrated any of the cultural criteria, that is the biggest problem, which is a candidacy that does not reproduce the reality of our country. We are therefore in the presence of a report which is a triple external, objective and argumentated denunciation. First of all, the absence of a social heritage management plan by the People's Party in the Union for 12 years. Secondly, the inability of interaction and active listening of the Union to the local population and to the collectives of study and heritage protection. And thirdly, the irresponsibility of the Board to understand the heritage of the Greek as a simple tourist showcase and with a value of a market without soul or identity. Counsellor, you're no longer a tourism advisor, you're a cultural advisor; please apply it to the development of your work. The candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira focused on the weaknesses, in the river area, with maximum BIC cataloging and very altered -- as we well know -- on the concoctions, in front of the monasteries, which were left with much less protection. Secondly, in the sacralization of the territory, which is currently residual. Or thirdly, in a wine-growing landscape in socks, which is very common in multiple areas that appear to be compared. On the contrary, they have forgotten such important strengths for us as the Romanian Romanist. The Sacred Ribeira is a territory with sufficient values, indeed; of course, we have ratified it, even there is that recognition of BIC. So from the BNG we will bring to the next plenary a motion with proposals to reactivate this jewel of our material and intangible heritage, inviting them, of course, to participate; and above all, learning from the manifest errors that have occurred in this failed processing. In the PRUS questionnaire, critics Ramón Nicolás once asked the writer Agustín Fernández Paz -- to whom we remind again these days in his fifth Cabudano -- in which country he wanted to live; to which Agustín Fernández Paz answered: "I like Galicia despite all the tragedies." We are faced with a more defeat by the People's Party in the country, indeed, than we like most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u217	You have to finish, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u218	...in the BNG, in Galicia -- finished already, Madam President --. Our challenge, our commitment is to turn us against all defeats and return the illusion and hope in a new time to the Greek people; also, of course, to put into value our collective heritage asset. Galicia is an opportunity in itself and at BNG we want to accompany her and push her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replication turn, for the Socialist Party, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u220	Madam President. Well, I hope BNG's voicer doesn't care what I'm going to say now, but I also want to start pulling from scratch to this replica shift, and it's "mix for us and they say it rains." Of course, Counselor, let's see, that, of course, there are so many things that I have finally separated from the script and I'm going to answer some of the questions that you have said here. Of course, starting with things like "we're running a Next Generation project" but, really, it's... I mean, I think there's issues with which you have to be, which are ruling, a little more serious. This is the Sacred Ribeira Plan. I keep asking you, where's the plan? But if you say that this plan exists and is written and the Lugo Deputy doesn't know him, and the mayors of the Sacred Ribeira area, to whom we have spoken, they don't know him, either, so I use it -- because it's already requested by article 9, we have that document asked -- which, please, even now you give the order that this honourable Member will be forwarded to this Sacred Ribeira Plan. Please. [[Applause]] And they also talk about the interdepartmental commission. Of course, the Interdepartmental Commission of the Sacred Ribeira at the Constitutional Meeting... I didn't say, at least, that it hadn't met. One had to be because it was actually built, the first in 2020 -- I don't know what month it was --. That commission was set up in October, of course, knowing that the ICOMOS report would meet in June, I would understand that there was another meeting. You now tell me that, of course, knowing that it was a body, an ad hoc commission for this candidacy. So, of course, we don't understand very well when they intend to have another meeting of that committee, what will it be, in December? We don't understand. In addition, it is an important issue: the question of the Government of the State. Look, of course, of course, you will know or understand that we are in conversation with the Government of the State. And this candidacy is yours, of course, because they trusted this project. But who makes the project is in this case the self-government and has all the logic in addition -- it has all the logic -- because it's the one who knows the heritage of what it is all about. What the State Government and state technicians do is make available all the technical means for processing and some advice, but they don't elaborate on that project. Don't take us for fools, because it's not like that, no, it's not like that, and you know it well. No, it's not, and finally, what you're trying to do is to bring the argument back a little bit and somehow also try to blame the state. The state has done enough, the Ministry of Culture and Foreign Affairs and our ambassador have done enough to rely on you; perhaps that was the problem, which they have trusted too much of you. Of course, we'll continue with that. I wanted to tell you -- already finishing -- is that article 78 of the UNESCO document, which sets out the categories by which a territory or heritage can aspire to be declared Human Heritage, speaks -- and has already said so also the BNG spokesman -- "to be considered exceptional universal value...," -- which is the matter of matter -- "...it must also fulfil the conditions of integrity and authenticity, and must have a system of protection and management proper to ensure its safeguarding." And there is, among other matters, the problem, Mr. Counsellor, there has been no involvement at all at all by the Government of the United States, not only with this candidacy and with the other three but with the Sacred Ribeira, no longer with the candidacy, with the Sacred Ribeira, nor in the territory where each of these outstanding assets is settled. They are necessary to ensure the success of strategic plans and, yes, strategic plans, that plan of the Sacred River -- that you, as I say, sell the right hand and sin --. And there is a need for strategic plans for socio-economic, cultural development, tourism development according to standards of quality and sustainability; very important, and more in the Sacred Ribeira, sustainability. It's not enough to introduce ourselves in a moment to a prize like this, we present ourselves for a moment to a prize and it's not enough; that we have to make efforts, we have to go to work over time and get involved in strict, quantifiable commitments, too. That's all we're going to do is ensure success. You said no and it looks like it's what you're looking for; but we, from the PSdEG, of course, this time we want to hold her hand to get the Sacred Ribeira to be the World Heritage Site. We'll have to look for it between all of us, and if we finally can't, for whatever reason it is, that it's something with which all the fabric actually, all the social, cultural and economic agents in those areas we agreed on, we agreed in the way it is -- in that case, otherwise, we would also have to think about that strategic plan of what I'm talking about --. Of course we have the hand stretched out, of course it is; but, of course, what we ask for is a little more transparency, a little more collaboration. And something that you really like -- that I've said here before -- something more of a feeling. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Member of the Galego Nationalist Bloc begins by putting forward a legitimate political aspiration: new time for the Greek people. It seems to me a legitimate political aspiration, very repetitive in time, but the truth is that you here too have little consistency, because you're denying that the Galician Nationalist Block did not campaign against BIC in the Sacred Ribeira. But there were posters in the taverns, against the BIC, against the Nationalist Block Galego! Not where they ruled, where there were mayors, that there was some mayor more or less normal, but where they were opposed they put him absolutely in public places. And you're talking about a new time. Well, it really doesn't stop being surprising. And if we have to take them to you from allies, we don't know who to listen to, whether their mayors, where they are government, or where they're opposition, because their point of view was absolutely different. [[Murmurs.]] Home, you question here and talk about geography. I don't want to talk about geography, obviously, but it's about the landscapes of Bocarribeira and Don Ramon Otero Pedrayo. One of his main disciples, Augusto Pérez Alberti, Professor of Physical Geography of the USC, was part of the team that drafted this candidacy. With which, really, to some extent, it's an argument that makes no sense. Here we're talking -- I said it and I can say it twenty times -- from a different conceptual vision between the technicians who wrote the candidacy and the technicians who evaluated it on a vertebral question of interpretation of what is a cultural landscape. On the one hand, evaluators understand that a landscape has to be fossilized to some extent, or interpreted as a fossil, static landscape; and on the other hand, the technicians who have drawn up the proposal understand that it is a living, evolutionary landscape that evolves. A dam, a bridge or any human structure is not bad or good in itself, the infrastructure can be a swamp, it can be a bridge, which improves the landscape if they do well. And how many landscapes have we seen valued with a human infrastructure? But it's a conceptual question. If I start from the basis that a landscape has to be fossilized, any alteration that modifies it, regardless of whether it generates a greater or greater attraction in the landscape itself, I see it negative. And that's the heart of the problem and what posed the differentiation of a universal exceptional value. Like the succession over time of different human actions on a territory, on a tremendously complex physical medium, fixed by a tectonic depression, with an embedded river course, can an improvement of it or not a prey? Perhaps or not, there will be ways of interpreting it, for those who have a fossil view of the landscape, no, for others it doesn't have to be negative in itself. And that's clearly the core of the negative report. The truth is, they don't care. You're just trying to take advantage of this issue to wear off the government, but you see only part of the report. There is one part of the report that says there are three basic elements that are very well thought out, which are very positive: planning, coordination and protection, along with participation and transparency. I think this is reflected in the ICOMOS report itself and you can see it. In any case, Mrs. Noa Díaz says there's no management plan. Home!, I can tell you that we were in the Pearls Mr. President of the Board, two advisors and several mayors presenting a plan with concrete investments. That is being implemented, that by 2020 90% of the shares are being executed and that by 2021 they are being carried out. That you've been hung up on the website. And you're there, that's like you deny that we didn't invest in the rehabilitation of the estate when I put 5 million in front of it. And of course there are pictures of what was the heritage before and what is the heritage now, you can see it there. You keep denying it, it's your problem. That's your problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, we're going to follow -- as I say -- by working with humility, with seriousness and also with optimism. And we're going to correct the weak spots, which are. And we'll have to talk to ICOMOS to see how we handle them. But, of course, you're here... of course, now Mrs. Noa also says that, well, we blame the Government of Spain. No way! In this we are partners, which you don't realize, absolutely partners since the year 2019. Look or what your ambassador says: "We believe there is good technical work and good work for all the people who have collaborated. This candidacy -- I personally have been able to visit it -- it is worth not going in a hurry and not taking the report as it is, since it would not give time for the UNESCO political body to pronounce itself objectively." I can say several literal phrases: "From my point of view the application has quality and density, it is well established. But it disagrees with the evaluator body, and that must be seen as long as it is necessary, which we do not have right now. Putting it off is the right thing to do and that's what we're going to do." These are the words of a prominent member of the Socialist Party of the Government of Spain. I, Mrs. Díaz, understand that the Block can say what it wants, but you should be a little more prudent, because this success or this failure is shared. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And to say here that there are no plans from the Galician Union with a cross-sectional and integral vision to empower the Sacred Ribeira when there is a tourist sustainability plan -- approved by the Government of Spain --, when there is a Sacred Ribeira Plan with specific investments -- and they bring here those of heritage --, when there is a pact for the landscape, when there is a series of concrete actions -- it's really, well, I don't know what to tell you anymore, I don't know what to tell you. Look, in any case, what if I'm going to tell you and this House is what we're going to do -- that I've already said the other day in the answer -- : in September we're going to start working on the Galician board technicians, state government technicians with ICOMOS technicians. Let's ask for a meeting. Let's consider how we should interpret the landscape dynamics: either as a static fossil condition or as a dynamic condition. We're going to continue working, promoting activities that already have a positive aspect in themselves for the Sacred Ribeira itself, because we're convinced, absolutely convinced, that it has outstanding, universal values exceptional for its recognition, without any doubt. And, I insist, here we all work -- autonomous community, government, councils, deputies, the most significant collectives and neighbors -- and we will continue to do so on this line, because the fact is, regardless of this strategic retreat, of this punctual withdrawal that has been made on many other occasions in other cases, we understand that we must continue to look forward and have confidence in the Sacred Ribeira and its heritage. I insist, the investments are there -- I've said it before -- the Sacred River Plan is there, everything is there. Next Generation's proposal is in the Government of Spain. No doubt it wasn't nice, we didn't expect this, we didn't expect it, but we also know that we don't have to bury the process, or much less; we have to rectify, we have to evaluate, we have to reconfigure. But if you can move on and that's what we're going to do. And, look, in a few years we'll see. In the end time is always the best judge and time puts each of us in its place. And I've heard here in many, many, many times, catastrophic visions of different government projects that, once materialize and reach the right port...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u223	You have to finish, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u224	...for in the end it's really the best judge and it's the best indicator. And here I hope, especially in this case, the Socialist Party, which supports this project, which is also in this case a shared project between the Government of the Union, between the Self-Government and also the Government of Spain. At which point we are completely aligned and coordinated in this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u225	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] At the end of the interrogations, we moved on to agenda item 10, questions to the Government. Question by Marta Novoa Iglesias, G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the support measures envisaged by the Galician Union in the light of the impact of the new electricity tariffs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u226	You have the floor, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u227	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Second Vice-President. Today the People's Group is obliged to bring this question about the high price of electricity. We did it in January when we were already watching the rise that was confirmed throughout the year 2021, and it was confirmed last June, motivated and helped by the change of rates, which puts the Spanish light at 40% more than a year ago. The truth is, Mr Vice-President, this central government has a record, it has several records. It is the Government of the 39 ministers in less than two years, it is the Government that also allows Spanish consumers to pay for the most expensive light in the history of Spain, and also in the whole of the European Union, and the worst thing is that we have to live a note from that bad Ministry of Industry which has caused the light in Spain to rise since 2004, in which it was around 30 euros megavatio/hour, to the more than 90 euros megavatio/hour that we are living throughout this year. 103 euros megavatio/hour this weekend, the highest price on an unworkable day, something never seen before, and Mr. Sánchez was all weekend worried about giving and removing seats, yes, the minister responsible for the branch stayed in the same place. Look, we've been bearing prices for unabated light for months, domestic consumers, autonomous consumers, small businesses, who've been trying to survive for a whole year after being immersed in the most unpredictable and greatest crisis of our time, and the reality, Mr. Vice President, is that we've been touched by the worst moment in our history with the worst government we could ever have. Yes, a social and progressive government, but which, far from seeing reality at a time when the light was already very high, decided in June to bring about a change of rates, in addition to inciting us to work at night, has caused the greatest rise in the light of history. After all this month’s pressure, the Government has been downgrading the EVI from 20 % to 10 %. That's right, a temporary measure that doesn't solve the problem, because the bills have arrived this June and they're about the same as the bills of May, before changing the EVV. And the future that awaits us, Mr. Vice-President, is that of continuing ascents, and the answer of Vice President Teresa Ribera is that we have to endure, we have to resign and wait until 2023, or 2028, when we may have the cheapest bill of light. In the meantime, the opposition, calm, gathering signatures, that is very quietly, being an accomplice of the Socialist Government in Madrid, and also here in Galicia, also by one of those armchairs. Mr Vice-President, I would like you to present to us today what measures you are facing in the face of this delicate situation that our families and our companies are living in. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Novoa, indeed, bad politics always has consequences and, unfortunately, the facts are proving that all the measures that the Socialist Government has taken since it assumed its responsibilities in 2018 linked to the energy mix, are proving that they are wrong measures, and above all are proving that this energy transition is paying for families and businesses. A situation that is inappropriate, that is putting thousands of jobs at risk, as in the case of Meirama and the Bridges, and that is producing an increase in the electric price, recording record numbers one day and the other as well. Last Sunday, when the maximum price on the wholesale market reached 90 euros/megavatio, with a June record through a monthly average of 83 euros/megavatio. All the Greeks and the Greeks are seeing in the June bill the consequences of this bad policy, because by collecting the data from the Consumers' Organization, a average home will pay in June around 70 euros, which, even taking into account the reduction in VAT from 21% to 10%, will account for 28% of the increase that is going to suffer from that June bill. A situation that is unreasonable and shows that these temporary measures that the Government is moving us to get out of the way of a problem are insufficient. And what we're claiming is a correction of that policy, a correction of the energy transition so that it's really a fair energy transition and, therefore, action is in place. We have transferred the measures and proposals through the non-law proposal that promoted the People's Group, and at the same time we are also taking measures since the Galician Union in the wake of our powers. We are trying to transfer to all the Greeks and to the Greeks the information needed to save on the bill of light, through the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition, we are moving for the second time the Greek electric social bond to the 2 million euros, which is going to increase by more than 60% of the credit we had planned for the budgets, 1.3 million euros, which is a clear demonstration of how this unfair energy policy is also affecting the most vulnerable families. Let us hope that correction and, above all, hope that the Socialist Party and We can really develop a fair energy policy for families and businesses. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u230	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u231	Thank you, President. The truth is, Mr Vice-President, we have been suffering from a totally deplanetized energy transition for three years, which leads to an increase in the prices of energy absorbed both at home and at industrial level. I was talking before prices at home, but the industrial level is already unsustainable. After deciding that the thermals had to close 15 years before the forecast, to decide that all the aid was eliminated by interruption and to provoke the announcement of the first closure of Alcoa La Coruña and after Alcoa San Cibrao, we have been waiting for two years for measures to allow our companies, highly energy consumers, to obtain a price of competitive energy. Because they were able to approve an electrointensive status without any kind of consensus and that only managed to lower a few euros the megavatio/hour. But here, Vice President, we are alone, alone in the struggle for the countless jobs that will be destroyed. The problem, Mr Vice-President, for this opposition is the installation of renewable energy in our community, which, on the other hand, would help to lower the receipt of light, but it is not a problem that the month of June was the most expensive in the history of the bill of light or that the gas is at most over the last three years, or that fuels rise by 65%. For the nationalist opposition the solution is the Welsh tariff, blocked by the PP, they say, when they transcribed their study in that pact of Ana and Adriana that carry zero compliments. And another solution is a public energy company, as if it were synonymous with not charging consumers with light. And for the socialist opposition, the solution goes through "yes, baboon" to Mr. Sánchez. And, above all, after last weekend's sketches, which cause fulminant cessation. I'd like to go to the limit to the point of voting, but not to our proposal to come down from the price of light there's a couple of plenarys. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, as always, the PSdeg always stands on the side of Mr. Sánchez and never on the side of the Greeks. So, and I'm done now, I wanted you to give us this last opinion of how it's affecting the price of light in the industrial field. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Close this question, second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Novoa, indeed in politics, when it is necessary to evaluate the different decisions taken by the Government, it is very simple, especially when they can be quantified. And energy policy needs to be quantified on the impact it has on families and businesses. And since 2018 we have been in a situation where families are paying more for the bill of light -- 30% this June with respect to the month of June last year -- and that companies, especially hyper-electrointensive companies, are paying twice as much for the energy price as their competitors in the rest of the European Union. Impact on families, which are paying more and more, impact on businesses, which are increasingly less competitive. I think it deserves a reflection by the Government and it deserves a correction, because what really cannot be that energy policy, simply by an ideological decision, has a negative impact on families and businesses. It's not reasonable, and we're risking thousands of jobs in Spain, we're putting industry at risk in Spain, especially the electro-intensive industry. And what can't be, when you make decisions against all the decisions that the rest of the European countries are making, you think you're right. Something will happen when your decisions go against what other European countries decide, with the same objectives: you have negative, positive, and not rectified impacts. I think rectification is wise and, therefore, we hope that there will be that correction. And we, as I said, moved to this House plenary -- the Government -- our proposals, so that we can review, in the case of families, the timetables, so that we can reform taxation, harmonizing that taxation with the rest of the European countries, giving more specific weight to what you consume than what you have contracted in power, which is what makes common sense; while at the same time being able to accommodate the voluntary price of the small consumer to powers equal to or less than 15 kilowatts. Measures to save on the bill of light for consumers and measures also to make companies more competitive. The status of electro-intensive consumers is a failure, we are paying twice as much for the energy that countries we compete with at European level. Why is there no recognition of the failure of the status of electro-intensive consumers and measures to save thousands of jobs and to save, in the case of Galicia, the situation of Alcoa workers and the workers of Alu Iberica La Coruña,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u235	...just like the rest of the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u236	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u237	...of electro-intensive companies? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u238	Thank you. Question by Juan Carlos Rivera and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures being carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure the presence of citizenship to basic financial services, in particular in the 45 municipalities lacking banking office
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u239	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, today we are asking a question that has to do with the financial system, which is happening in the country as a result of the closure of the offices, especially in the smaller municipalities. It's true that this is not a process today, they haven't been closed for a month, but it's true that this process has been much more intense for a year and a half, where banking institutions especially rooted in the country are continually closing offices. This is causing financial exclusion, it's causing a lot of people not to have access to financial services, it's particularly causing older people and people with less possibilities, with fewer capabilities, to have many more accessibility difficulties to a fundamental and basic service such as access to a financial service and ultimately to cash, which is also being deprived of money as a result of the closure of offices. It is true that there is a process of impulse from financial institutions to the digital bank, a process that is not necessarily negative to everyone, but it is causing an obvious prejudice -- I insist -- in older people and people with less resources. In Galicia, since 2008, almost 1,000 offices have been closed, there are 45 municipalities now that have no bank offices, especially in Ourense province, where 28 municipalities are excluded from this service. 118 municipalities, if they're no longer, uniquely and exclusively have a bank office and therefore this process that the financial system is leading us to is depriving many citizens of access to services and doing basic operations in a financial institution. Lately and these days we are seeing as an entity, the entity with the largest banking business in the country, Abanca, is announcing continuous closures of offices in Sardinia, in Carballedo, in the municipality of Sardinia-Cotobade, in Soutelo de Montes and also in the town of Seixo, in the municipality of Marín. [[The Crown]] Recently, we saw a demonstration of people and citizens from that town manifesting in the county in defense of this basic service. And at the same time and in parallel, this entity gets multi-millionaire and millionaire benefits, as their newly published results accounts show. In view of this situation, we asked the Board what it's doing to prevent or to guarantee -- better said -- citizens' rights to access a physical office of a banking entity in those localities, especially...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u241	...in those municipalities that don't have office right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u242	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Mr. Valeriano Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. The first thing I wanted to say to you, Mr Rivera, is that we share with you the concern about the consequences this problem is having on citizens' access to financial services, particularly in rural areas. I'll tell you that this is a problem, actually, as you said in part, that it's not from now on, it's born with the most historic one in Spain, with 46,000 units of offices that were in Spain in 2008 -- in September it seems to me to remember -- and today a little more than 22,000. [[Murmurs.]] In fact, in Galicia we have 45 municipalities, which represent approximately 2 % of the population, in Spain the average is 3 %. With this I don't mean any joy, for me it's worth the same every person, and therefore what we have is to work with a useful policy to serve these citizens who live in these municipalities. So, for many months now -- and the last time we signed the protocol -- there was a first protocol, but the final one, which we signed last December -- a few months ago, therefore -- with the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, which is the right interlocutor for the municipalities, was to facilitate what? That there may be a cashier in the municipal units, that there may also be a presence of attention to resolve doubts and that there may also be an electronic bank training, which is what is being demanded. Therefore, since the Galician Union we are doing, to our understanding, what is not being done since the Central Government. Because, indeed, this is a common problem, there should be coordination at the general level taking into account the different aspects that conflict with the problem, but in essence, useful policy is what we are doing. In June, the call-base order came out -- this July 22nd, ends the submission of bids -- and obviously, from September to June, we will, according to the municipalities, give the requirements so that you can have it. I think they're very well invested money. At this point, a maximum of €2,800,000 in four years, which will allow that attention, because, once again, we not only speak but also try to do things. I think it's going the right way, the hands of municipalism, and we'll soon see the results of this policy. If I can forward to you today, we have 34 municipalities already signed. We're hoping to have another 4 or 5 municipalities, and I've already come forward to you that one thing is to talk politically about what we have to do most of them all, of the different colors that there may be here and others that aren't here, but when you review the municipalities that signed the agreement, it turns out that there are all of them: there are PP councils, PSOE councils, Block Town Councils and even half-pensionists or independent municipalities, of different signs. So there is nothing better than preaching with the example and [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u244	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u245	Yes. Thank you, Counselor. At first, we do not logically object to an agreement with Fegamp, from the Unity of Galicia, where solutions to these kinds of issues are sought. What we have questioned is that, indeed, public money maximizes the benefit of financial institutions. Therefore, cashiers and the cost of their facilities and maintenance costs have to assume them by financial institutions and cannot assume it under any concept by the Public Administration. Because what the Public Administration cannot do is again to rescue, in this case, banks, in this case that constantly get millionaire profits, year by year, provided that, in the case of an entity already mentioned, it was acquired in 2012 for an absolutely much lower price than it was capitalized at its time with public money. So, Counsellor, because this would not be the solution, indeed, a solution to solving an on-the-spot issue, if banking entities do not continue to close offices in the councils, because if they keep closing offices in the municipalities, while we go and in those 118 municipalities where there is only one office, the financial entities continue to close the councils, I say that the solution will not be that the Galician Union will continue to put money to the banks to climb there or maximize their profit by raising the money to them. The solution must be political. Just as you put Abanca in the management of European funds, which we don't think is bad, it would also be good if you put Abanca and other financial entities in the solution of this problem, and put them in a belt and made politics in this sense by logically dialogue with them, dialogue with the financial entities and essentially with those who [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u246	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera, thank you. Thank you. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Close the question, Business and Public Administration advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u247	In Spain, at a comparative level, born in principle by Members of a different political colour, even the Tarragona Deputy, who seems to remind me that in 2018 he was chaired by the Republican Left, they have very similar instruments, not as complete as in Galicia, we are having, we have Almería, Badaxoz, Guadalajara, even the Valencian Community -- you can review, Mr. Rivera -- that he has a scheme very similar to ours, not so ambitious, but we would have had good sense that we are trying to solve the problems, useful policy, which he said today... Today morning I heard his group president say a phrase that had to do with that, that politics had to solve the problems of citizens. We've not only said that, but we've been doing it for many years. But it would be good too, Mr. Rivera, that we sometimes read what we're doing. I'll just read one thing to you, and I think you'll give me time in these two minutes. In the Senate on 9 September, the Socialist Group's initiative adopted a motion, I would like to read: "First, to prepare a detailed study on the real situation of financial exclusion, especially in rural and remote areas." It is very much the Socialist Party's view of paralysis for analysis. Study, as if we don't know where the subject is and what the problems are. "Offer -- this speech that you just made --...give financial institutions incentives and dependency spaces." Mr. Rivera, please, we must maintain a certain level of coherence. "Develop a development plan, deployment of multi-entity cashier networks. To encourage the use of mechanisms to facilitate the accessibility of financial services and to encourage financial institutions to develop courses in rural areas and to enable their inhabitants, especially older people, to become familiar with electronic banking services." You'll see that's what we're doing. We do not preach but set an example, an example that will be real in very little time. So, very few lessons and it's time for the Central Government to assume its powers, even those of simple coordination, into a common problem. And I repeat it again, when we call the town halls you'll see that there are all colors, why? Because the most important thing is that every person who lives in rural areas, at the individual level and at the level of business, at the level of different entities, can have access that they don't have today. First we tap this deficiency that they have, we make it evolve, and then we look at other derivatives. That's what we're dedicated to, and I think we're doing quite well, and by the way, like us and nobody in Spain today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u248	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u249	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u250	Next question. Question by D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and four other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego, on the impulse by the Government of Galicia to demand the owner company of the Touro mine to develop and implement a definitive restoration plan for land and water
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u251	Thank you very much, President. Almost a year and a half ago you met here, in this Chamber, the refusal of environmental authorization to the Atalaya Mining mine project in Touro. He did it with those airs that characterize him in his interventions, as if he made it clear that you're the only one who watches for legality. And he did more, he said he was going to demand an updated restoration plan from the company. It was an election year, the theatrical performance began. Because this question we have asked you since the BNG has to do with that promise made here, at the house of the word, at the seat of the sovereignty of the people of the Greeks and the Greeks, for us, the nationalists, a place of utmost seriousness. At that time the BNG has promoted in Europe -- you know that we have a part-time Member, but it is worth more than five full-time -- we will promote a request for research into the pollution of the Touro mine, a request that had been approved by most of the groups represented in the European Commission on Petitions. And you go and from the German Government send to the European Parliament the request to close the investigation, why? And it's closed, of course. And your word, Counselor? There's something wrong with me, because it's about his word, publicly engaged in this house, or was it just an election promise, a good square, such a gimmicky suddenly? Because we don't know anything about any restoration plans and yes a strong propaganda offensive, preparing a new old mining project. Is the second version of the Predation Law enough now or are they going to need a third? Did you know that the mine, that space, owns places with extremologists, that is, bacteria that adapt to extreme conditions of acidity and pollution? So we come to that, because it's what people in the common world, the mortals who don't have that high intelligence and training for the understanding of mining processes, of legality, of the seriousness of this Union government, so, look, we distrust. Because since you weren't able to enforce legality, as since the government did not make any movement for the company to present a restoration plan, because we think that if the project appears again with another makeup but with the same skin and the same face, you don't give us any confidence and we'll have to go out again with the sign, commit the illegality of claiming what is law. Don't you think? By the way, do you know anything about the promised restoration plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u252	Thank you, Mr. Rivas Cruz. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, how you like poetry, how you like it! [[Murmurs.]] Look, I don't know where you see the contradiction. You should know that this government is applying the regulations on mining that you approved in 2008, you should know. And I should know that all the decisions we are developing from the point of view of the authorization and follow-up of the various projects is precisely derived from the Mining Law that approved the Nationalist Block of Wales and the Socialist Party, the Bipartite in 2008. Where there is no contradiction, this government is actually defending sustainable mining, we are defending that industry is an engine of wealth and employment and that it can also be in the rural environment; and, of course, what we are advocating is that mining development must be fulfilling the current legislation and ensuring all impacts from the environmental point of view. You, Mr. Rivas, are always on the boycott, permanently on the boycott, regardless of the type of industry and, in the case of mining, of course, could not be less and again you are against. But the most serious thing, Mr. Rivas, is that you commit recklessness -- allow me to comment -- to accuse rather than ask. If you, instead of accusing this government of saying that we haven't asked for the restoration plan, I have, by caution, asked you, from the Government, that, indeed, this government if it has required the company to restore it. And I'd move him, if I had asked him, that that plan was presented; and that that plan has deficiencies, and that he was required to correct the deficiencies, and the company is in time to do so. But you always accuse, never ask, it's not going to be that you don't logically like the answer, and therefore your ideological account against the mining might be trapped. The same is true of the drainage project, which was also requested by this government, for the integral management of the waters on the farm. And also, provisionally, it was approved as a precautionary measure a project to collect the waters that emanate naturally, and we started a sanctioning file last June 16, precisely in case we didn't execute this measure by the company. Mr Rivas, this government is acting according to the legality and the regulations that the Nationalist Block Galego approved in 2008 with the Mining Law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u254	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, this Parliament, this house of speech, is to be asked. I just asked him about the restoration plan and I appreciate you telling me they're in it. They're always in that. Look, let's see, since 1986 you've ruled almost continuously here. Never, they never demanded a restoration plan, which had to be done, because, look, the law of 1973, the Royal Decree 294/1982, or after what replaced it, on 975/2009, speak of the "require" of restoration. You didn't remember until now, until now, which, so you say -- I don't really believe, like Holy Thomas in you -- I'll never believe it, and it's not ideology to you, it's for the facts. It's not because of ideology, it's because of facts. But, look, you should know that, 35 years after the mining activity is suspended, sterile rafts are unencapsulated, acid drainages are on a continuous spill to the water in the basin, and the huge open holes are there. And you should also know that over 65 square kilometers from the water collection in the Ulla bowl have severe contamination by acid drainage and heavy metals. You should also know that copper, lead, zinc, nickel, chromium and mercury are bioaccumulative and present in the Ulla River. And that at the end of the Ulla river is the Arousa stream, and that all is thousands of jobs, that you say we don't defend. But we're currently defending thousands of jobs, against the supposed one hundred, I don't know how many, which were translated into 50 parking lots that took the project. That was the promise of the mine. Counsellor, stop ideology and go to practice, and the practical and duty of yours is to watch for legality and to watch...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u256	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u257	...and to ensure that projects are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u258	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, second vice president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, I understand perfectly well that you have no confidence in the Government of the People's Party, that's a given. What concerns me is that they have no respect for the Government and that when the Government comes to this Parliament and transfers information if it continues to question and simply uses this Parliament to generate social alarm and, through the half-truths, try to transfer to citizenship a situation that is not real. Look, I'm telling you about the facts, and the fact is that this government denied permission for the Touro mining operation. That's the fact. But the People's Party did it, not the Welsh Nationalist Block. That's the reality. [[Applause]] And we did it, Mr. Rivas, by applying the law that you passed when you were in the Bipartite, between 2005 and 2008 -- and that you have an empty memory that seems you haven't ruled between 2005 and 2008! --. And we did it, simply, through unfavorable reports by the Self-Government itself, in this case of the General Directorate of Natural Heritage and Waters of Galicia. You accused me of not asking for the restoration plan, you didn't ask me, you accused me. And he accused me of a data without asking. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And we obviously asked him for the restoration plan, and since it wasn't right, we asked him for that requirement that we would expect the company to submit it in time. And we will continue to apply the law. Where is the contradiction and, above all, why does the Galician Nationalist Block deny its past? Why do you deny your past? Why in 2008 did the Galego Nationalist Block say that mining is perfectly compatible with the environment and job creation, with wealth creation and now they want to close everything? You, because you don't have confidence -- and I insist -- should have a little respect, that's yes, but you don't have confidence in the government, surely, when you want to talk about the impact the Touro mine has on the Arousa River, maybe you should be informed about reports that the Institute of Marine Research of the Higher Science Research Council has published, which you just believe, Mr. Rivas, in a report completed in December, that the old Touro mine is not affecting the quality of the waters of the Arousa River through the Ulla River. Ideology is good, demagogy is good, and it's good to go against mining and industrial activity in Galicia. That's all right, Mr. Rivas!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u260	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the actions of the Galician Union to save the projects and jobs of the Conservative Thenaisie Provote, the Grove
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u261	Good afternoon, Counselor. The BNG doesn't deny your past and I hope you won't deny the skills you have as a government, and that's the question I'm going to ask you now. In May 2020 the conservative Thenaisie Provote company, located in the Grove Town Hall, presented a voluntary bid of creditors. That situation made all the alarms jump because it put one of the most important companies in the county and a real economic engine at risk. We're talking about 125 direct jobs between the production plant located in the Grove and logistics set up in Mos, to which we have to add the 200 temporary posts to carry out punctual campaigns -- 90% of this job, female -- and all the indirect jobs resulting from this business activity. The BNG has brought here to this Parliament the problem very concerned about the situation. We asked him what he was doing to ensure the viability of the conservatory and the jobs, we asked him about the alternatives that Junta was putting on the table, and today, a year later, we have to ask him the same questions again: what did he or she do to join Galicia to save the jobs, the project of the cannery Thenaisie in Grove? We ask him to act responsibly and to accord to the responsibility of the staff and the works council, which has been involved from the very first moment in seeking alternatives, that he has correlated that commitment of the workers in the Galician Union and we have no record that he has done anything about it at all. Look, Thenaissie's situation has no justification. He's got modern facilities, he's got experienced and capable staff, a sector that keeps him up, he's never so much billed. The viability of the company seems more evident because, in spite of the creditors' competition, despite being in liquidation, most staff still work and collect in time. In addition to the above, there are business proposals. Now there are three business offers presented, two of which include the maintenance of most jobs. And the question, Counsellor, is whether they are following up on the proposals that have been put forward, what they have been presented before the competition administration; whether they have been addressed to some company to ask for or to see if they are in a position to take charge of Thenaissie; whether they are directed, to the board or to the Igape, some company to ask for support, avalanche or some line of help and what was the action of the Board in front of some of these actions, if they occurred. Because, look, the situation right now is desperate and time is running out. Today, the conservatory is in liquidation and afraid that it will end up auctioning, without any known performances by the Galician Board to save the company. They need the Union to act on what it is, the government of the Greeks and the Greeks, and to side with the companies. So, Mr. Conde, what is Galician Union doing to save Thenaissie? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Employment and Innovation Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, I thank you that, unlike the speech of your colleague, Mr. Bará, you, at least, are showing some respect for industrial activity in Galicia and, at least in appearance as well, you are standing next to the workers and workers of Thenaisie Provote. I do not understand, honestly, Mrs Prado, that, with the information you have, I am convinced that you have the same information as me, come to this Parliament to try to argue. I don't understand, honestly. I don't understand why confrontation must be sought instead of looking for spaces for dialogue and collaboration and working together, even the Nationalist Block of Galicia, supporting the Unity of Galicia. Because we're talking about workers who are actually trying to keep their jobs. You know perfectly well that from the very first moment the Galician Union has been looking for alternatives. First, with the owner company, with Scandia, with numerous initiatives, numerous meetings and different scenarios in order to support a solvent project by Scandia. The owners didn't want to give it viability, despite the Alliance of Galicia's commitment to support the different investments that were being planned. He knows the company committee and all the workers and workers at Thenaisie Provote. I'm surprised you don't, even though here it seems like you're trying to miss it. And you know perfectly well that right now we are in the competitive process, where there are indeed several offers, and of course the Galician Union is in contact with the different companies that are running. But you should know that the Galician Union can't do anything but compromise any kind of support before the contestant and the judge resolve and can determine which of the proposals and which of the initiatives is best for ensuring jobs and viability. What if you have transferred to the Galician Union is that, of course, once that resolution is produced and the initiative is identified by the contestant and the judge, the Galician Union will be clear that it will continue to support a project that is solvent, a project that is viable and a project that logically, when the Galician Union commits resources, will be directed precisely to ensuring the viability of that company. And the Galician Council has no doubt that, just as it has been since the first moment, it will be at the moment when the competitive administration and the judge can solve that initiative and we will certainly support as long as there is a project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u264	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u265	...that guarantees that viability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u266	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u267	So I see, Mr. Counsellor, you expect a project to come up, but you don't say what you're doing to push a project, what the workers are asking you for, and what we're asking you for from the BNG, that you're not sitting there waiting for a project to appear, but we're getting wet, we're running out, we're going to work for a project. That's a little difference, not to wait, but to get to work so that there's this project. The German Government has competences in industrial policy, employment, fisheries policy, and what we ask you to do is exercise them, exercise them, exercise them, exercise them as a government, because Thenaisie is at a time of discount, Counsellor, you know. And you know that because, in July 2020, six days before the elections to the Greek Parliament, you promised the workers to unravel the subject, and a year after that promise, we know you're waiting for a project to come up, but we don't know anything, because you didn't have time to reunite with the workers. The Sea Councillor in October said in this Parliament that: "As much as the vice president as I am, we are convinced that we will be able to help you find an investor so that the Grove plant will have a future. We've been working hard since minute one, we'll take about a while, but we like things to do them well." And, of course, the question is, what was this rigorous work, Counselor? Because, I insist, Thenaisie is in liquidation and the workers, of course, are very pessimistic about what their company's future is. I keep asking you what you did, enumerate those alternatives, enumerate the work done, tell you what days, what hours you met, what companies, what proposals the companies made, if you were asked for some kind of endorsement, if you asked for some kind of help. Enumere, have the courage to say here something more than to throw balloons out. Because how will you be able to explain that, if there is a company with modern facilities, an experienced staff board, a fishing industry on the rise and there are proposals on the table, the German Government is not able to bring forward a business project that means so much female work and so much industrial work,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u269	...so scarce in Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u270	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close the question, second vice president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, I see you didn't understand anything about what I moved in my first question. Sometimes I find it very difficult to come to this Parliament and respond to the Galician Nationalist Block, simply because I transfer concrete data and you just don't want to listen, or you just don't want to know reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll move you that, indeed, from the very first moment we've been in touch with the company and with the different alternatives, we're still in contact with them and at the moment we just have to respect the deadlines of a competitive process, which you should know what this must be like and therefore the Galician Union is clearly identifying how it can ensure the viability of the company and hence of the jobs. What I don't know is what the Galician Nationalist Block is proposing. Surely the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block in this particular case would certainly be that the Government would commit EUR 30 million, simply asking for the assurance of the Thenaisie Provote brand itself, which can be valued at EUR 30 million, and from then on guarantee the viability of the company. That's what you did with Alfageme, Mrs Prado, exactly that, without a solvent project guaranteeing the viability of the project. And you know what happened? That the Greeks and the Greeks had to pay EUR 30 million for their irresponsibility, simply for populism, for government irresponsibility. Don't count on the People's Party to take that kind of action. The People's Party will work with any initiative that presents a feasibility project and, to the extent that the competitive administration and the judge identify an initiative that guarantees that viability, the Galician Union will be to support that project. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] You know who needs to know, who the workers are, who the workers are, who the company committee knows, and I'm just sorry, that once again, the Nationalist Block of Galicia is behind the workers and the workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u272	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Juan Carlos Rivera and three other MPs, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the sanction imposed by the Galego Health Service to an optional gynecologist of the Comarcal Hospital of Verín
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u273	Good afternoon, Mr. Comesaña. In the County of Monterrey there is a rape, there is an alarm about a fact, a resolution just issued by Sergas regarding the initiation of a file to a gynecologist at the hospital in Verín. A gynaecologist who is subject to a penalty for the possible commission of a serious offence, and who only happened there, that gynaecologist has actually been positioned at the moment in the defense of the public hospital, in the defense of public health, in the defense of a public parent in the County of Monterrey. In view of this situation, a file, a file promoted by the manager of EOXI, Mr. Rubial, a file promoted to a few days of his expiry and a file resolved by imposing a two-day suspension penalty on him, in the face of a justification -- and so the file was seen -- that there was a misunderstanding with a partner, in this case with a pediatrician, which is not proven in the resolution nor does he obey the facts that happened at that time, which, simply, as you know -- because you know -- that was simply a discrepancy, a discussion between partners, something normal, logical and normal in all companies and also in Sergas. In front of that, the Galician Council imposes a penalty, a penalty that is indeed not firm, and that we hope that in the field of the remedy of lifting, which you have to resolve, heed those allegations, for a legal and legal matter, and file the file that has been committed to an honorable person, to a person who has a legitimacy in the face of enormous citizenship, after 25 years defending public health and providing his services in that hospital, and that, therefore, we can avoid that with this file we can conclude that what is here is ultimately an adjustment of account, a reprisal against a person who only has been made to defend the public hospital. [[Applause]] Counsellor, we do not ask you to make a monument to Mr. Castrillo, a gynecologist of the Verín hospital, that already does the society of Verín, that is done by the society of Verín, that is done by the society of Verín, that is done by the society of the region, that recognises everyone, him and all the gynecologists and all the optional ones, all that they do for health. We simply ask you to act in accordance with the law and not act, as you deduced from the file, by means of an accounting adjustment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u274	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u275	Good afternoon, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Francisco. According to you, the citizenship of Verín is stunned by the resolution of the General Technical Secretariat of the Health Council regarding the disciplinary file of the Verín gynecologist. Go forward, first of all, my respect to all the workers at the Verín hospital, to the gynecologists, to the pediatricians and to all the professionals at that hospital. But I'm sure that citizenship is not as surprised as I am when I have to come to answer this plenary question that doubts the independence and work of a professional who was an instructor in that file. No more foolish than me when I saw his spokesman giving a press round at the hospital door, doubting also the regulated processes for defending the workers' rights of the Galician Health Service. Let me doubt the decision to include this question in the plenary debate, because it makes me doubt that you have so little consideration with an optional one, in this case, that you have filed a complaint. I doubt the convenience of the question that they are so disregardful of the work carried out by the Sergas Inspection Service, disregarded by the file instructor, an independent and sovereign civil servant in the investigation of the proceeding. Also with the head of the service, who evaluated the report issued by the instructor to check and verify that he met the criteria and requirements set for the disciplinary records, and also with the sub-director, who gave him a good visa. You doubt how good it is to do these professionals and we don't doubt how good it is to do no professional, considering -- I repeat -- that the secretary general shouldn't have signed the motion for a resolution and his proposal is that we file the file. You're asking us to put it in a drawer. And where are the rights of that professional who has denounced some of the facts he felt mistreated by that optional? Is the Socialist Party just watching for the interests of a specific professional or is it for their own interests? We understand that we must be serious in this case and in all those who pass through Sergas' inspection department. You can't politically use issues that are perfectly regulated. In fact, the penalty is serious because it is stipulated in Chapter XII of the disciplinary regime of the Framework Staff Regulations for health personnel. The professional had all the accurate information throughout the procedure, he had the possibility, and used it, to make claims, and now he has the possibility to intervene in raising appeal and, if that is the case, as you know, litigation-administrative appeal. Therefore, this process was carried out with all guarantees for the two parties involved: the optional complaint by the denouncing professional. And so it must be, you must count on these assurances. We can't skip one's rights, but we can't, either, as you intend, those of the woman who filed the complaint. Administrative processes must be fully guaranteed, and for that we must not interfere.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u276	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u277	Thank you. It says the resolution that what happened here was an understandable discussion, a fact that occurs more or less frequently, that's what the resolution says. And you're applying to this fact, in an unspecified way in the regulation, a penalty that has nothing to do with the facts committed. Because you're talking about the gynaecologist making a disregard for the pediatrician. However, they don't say which, nor what was that kind of disregard. What were the insults, what were the disregards of what is deduced from the possible penalty you're putting on the gynaecologist? No one, because there wasn't, there wasn't, and you know it. This file is instigated by Mr. Manager of EOXI, even forcing him to denounce the pediatrician, who soon retracts in his own file and says that it was indeed she who denounced it; and what is hidden here, Mr. Comesaña, is no less than an account setting with the one who dared to defend himself before the citizenship the public hospital in Verín in the face of a political decision that sought to close the parity of that hospital. That's what happened here, and that's what you're sanctioning. I, Counsellor, can choose two ways: to address the allegations raised in the lifting resource, which you have to resolve, to meet the legality of the procedure, or to dismiss them and, logically, to send the gynecologist and the optional to the litigation-administrative. I also tell you one thing: if, in fact, this ends up in the litigation and there's a resolution in favor of the gynaecologist, you don't choose who to stop, because the PSdEG is going to resign. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u278	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u279	Thank you very much. Well, with regard to the file, we believe that there is no further debate. There's a professional who collects a complaint, another professional who teaches the case, a series of elements that oversee the process and a final proposal, allegations in this case of the person who has been reported and the final answer. I repeat, I think the procedure can no longer be guaranteed. At the end of this sanctioning file may be positive or negative, that will be the resolution that passes the Inspection, not this advisor. And I repeat that the German Government will find it right to make any decision that the instructor makes, because he trusts in his opinion. The curious thing is that they're talking about the fight against the dismantling of the Verín hospital, that alleged dismantling of that is that we've already adjudicated the project that allows you to expand the emergency service, as well as the CAP, or also make an energy improvement of the facilities. Or, not to mention infrastructure, also the incorporation of new professionals, in this case a recently incorporated pediatrician to cover a retired pediatrician's place. So I repeat that our bet is to continue with the Verín hospital. I started by recognizing the work of the professionals who develop it there and, I repeat, speaking in this case of the details of the file and asking us to file the procedure to tell us what their attitude would be if not. Of course, we will continue to defend the attitude and work of the inspectors and trust that the proposal that this instructor makes is the most equitable, the most reasonable and, of course, to which the Greek Government will support. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u280	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Paulo Ríos Santôme, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, asked about the measures envisaged by the Galician Union to ensure decent health care at the Seixo Health Centre, in the Marín Town Hall
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u281	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I wanted to begin this intervention by blessing you because last Friday the health policy of the Board of Galicia has achieved a historic milestone in the parish of Seixo in Marín. More specifically, you have achieved this, Counsellor: that thousands of neighbors go out into the streets against the health policies of the Galician Union, for their right to a public health of quality and free of cuts. [[Applause]] Therefore, congratulations, Counselor. A representation of these neighbors and neighbors will accompany us today in Parliament and I thank them for coming and greeting them. The Seixo health center serves the parishes of San Tomé, Seixo, Ardán and O Campo, which have a population of close to 5,000 people, but to which tourism must be added during the summer season and the workers of the local companies, some of them of considerable size, who have that health center as a reference. This health center has had years to endure cuts on staff. On the one hand, with the elimination of summer reinforcement due to tourism and, on the other hand, with the loss of a full-time nursing assistant, who currently has to share with the health center of Marín. From the BNG Parliamentary Group, we want to know what's going to happen with attention to the Seixo health center, because this same one will see one of the two doctors who perform services in Sexo retire and the other doctor must enjoy their vacations. There are many ways to let a health centre die, Counsellor, and one of them is not hiring or replacing staff. Can you guarantee the Galician Union and its council the replacement of staff that will not be able to meet the neighborhood in these four parishes? Another way to let a health center die is not to adapt services to the needs of the neighborhood, because in parishes with several schools and with a childhood school it is essential to have a schedule of pediatricians, as well as, by the composition of the different parishes, it would be necessary to have schedules and physiotherapy professionals. Counsellor, can you make sure that you won't let Seixo's health center die? Will you equip him with the right staff to provide a decent service? Are you going to implement pediatric and physiotherapy service to meet the needs of the neighborhood? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u282	Thank you, Mr. Rios Santomé. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u283	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ríos, we all know how difficult it is to obtain individual and general staff in the field of primary care. I am sure that we would all like to have greater mechanisms to achieve this and to cover the 552 centres in Galicia, distributed in 462 health centres and 90 CAPs. And we're talking about a total of 2,000 professionals in this case of family and community medicine. With this starting situation we have to face circumstances such as vacation periods or the retirement of some professional, as is the case with us. As you well say, the circumstances of the vacation period and the retirement of an optional one coincide. Although there was this debate about this health center in the middle of the Marin Town Hall, and the mayor has perfectly transferred the commitment of the Galician Health Service, transferred from the council itself, in addition to being heard by the press, you insist on this question, which I will try to answer and clarify the situation. Look, the only social alarm in the Marin Town Hall about health is that you yourself have artificially generated, since at no time, at any time, it was revealed or if you intended to dismantle or close that center. As I said, the situation is similar to that of other centers, the retirement of a nurse and now a family doctor makes us have to resort to types of usual coverage in these cases. For medical coverage, they come using tools such as inter-replacement, coverage with an optional quote from the same health center, or day-to-day extensions. These tools have been used for years in Galicia and the rest of the autonomous communities, in view of the impossibility of choosing the route of recruitment. I was saying before we have 2,000 primary care doctors and we don't have 2,000 replacements. It would be bad if 2,000 doctors were unemployed, we don't have 2,000 substitutes. Therefore, the coverage of health care professionals' vacations is made with day-to-day interreplacement or extension. That's the tool we're going to use. As you know, the professional who retires will not work until the last day but will take vacations a month before, who, on the other hand, is entitled to take them; hence, from that moment on, when he retires or on his vacations, his absence will be resolved in any way that is resolved at any health center in the autonomous community. The square will be covered as soon as possible as possible, but while assistance is fully guaranteed. Even so, the replacement of the nursing professional who retired on May 5th has a contract, at least until the beginning of September. Therefore, as you and all the citizens of the area of Sex and the parishes that receive assistance in this health center, have guaranteed their health care and will continue to be. So, far from what you move, I want to pass all the tranquillity on to all the people in Marin, because they can continue to receive assistance at the Seixo health center, which won't -- I repeat, won't close -- nor will they have fewer services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u284	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Ríos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I thank you very much, very much, I believe that BNG has the ability to bring out 4,000 neighbors and neighbors on the street by a whim or by creating a social alarm. The truth is he speaks very well of our organization. But that's not the case, BNG didn't put a gun on anyone's head to show himself for a right to a public and quality health in Marin. So don't miss the criteria and hopes of the neighbors and neighbors of the Sea, of Sexo, for having a quality in their health. [[Applause]] I told you before, Counselor, that the problem is not to close or not to close the health center. There's a lot of ways to let him die without closing it, a lot more subtle ways, like leaving him out of service. We're seeing it in other parts of the country, and that's why the neighbors and neighbors of these four parishes are so alarmed, because they see how there are other health centers that are increasingly losing more optional, that are increasingly lost schedules and that are derived from other health centers. That's what we're seeing every day, and therefore it's normal for the neighborhood in these parishes to be completely alarmed at this situation that comes to the health center of Sexo. I would like today, Counselor, taking advantage of that it is already the last question on the agenda and that there are the neighbors and neighbors of Marin here, that you personally transfer that commitment, that commitment that they will not be without a worthy attendance, that they will not see reduced any of the rights they have today. And not only that -- and it didn't answer me -- but also a commitment or no, or a negative, as you consider, or a negative as you consider, the plans of the Union consider, that is to be going to have an extension of services that we believe they deserve and that are necessary to meet the needs of this population. As I said before, pediatrics and physiotherapy. They don't let the health center die, they really guarantee the neighbors, they commit themselves to the neighbors and neighbors of the parishes that they won't see their rights reduced or an apex in this summer period and in what remains of the year as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u286	Thank you, Mr. Ríos. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u287	Yes, Mr. Rivers, don't whisper my words, I've never given up on the will of the people who have manifested themselves, who you say are 4,000, I don't know how many have been, I haven't been there, I'm sure you do. What I'm saying is that you're manipulating, and if people are told that they're going to close the center and someone says that they're supposed to have a certain credibility, people end up believing it. But, it's okay, I'm here today to tell the people who are with you here that is a lie, you mind, there's no intention of closing this health center. I can say it higher, clearer... [[Applause]] But, besides, look, I don't say it here today. That's what the manager, together with the mayor, has already said at a meeting with the center's faculty and several associations. That commitment was made there at the health center itself in June, not yesterday or after the demonstration, in June, that commitment was made. And, therefore, that manager's commitment is mine, too. I repeat, the sex health center won't be closed. Let's see if you understand. So you can keep fueling artificial controversy, but the population can finally check who was telling the truth. From the Health Council we will continue to work to provide you with the best health care in the primary and CAP centres we have in the Marin Town Hall, keeping all services established and establishing the necessary improvements whenever necessary. And from the juntta we will continue to move forward to equip all the municipalities, also Marin, and all citizens with stronger, better organized primary care that allows for the use of resources, especially human resources. As you know, we have already reached conclusions in the Technical Commission to put in place the new measures, with the aim, among other things, to improve the management of agendas, reduce delays, order service portfolios, encourage team and community work, etc. Together with these measures, we will continue to work to be able to count more professionally to cut down situations like this, so we will continue to reiterate the need for accreditation of more training units as well as, as it has recently been approved in the Commission on Reactivation, to convene an extraordinary IRM and to cover the lack of specialists in family medicine. Our goal is that primary care is the spinal axis of all health care, and for that we count on the contribution of professionals who have participated in this time in the planning of the future's primary and that work will undoubtedly yield to the benefit of the quality of care that lends to all Greeks and Greeks and, in particular, to the neighbors of Seixo. So, I insist, stay calm, stay calm, above all, the people who have come with you and those who are in Seixo, the Galician Union will not close the Sexo consultant's office, once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-07-14-DSPG044.u288	They end here these two intense fulls. I have to say, and I've been here for a few years, that I don't remember a legislative production as productive as this one that we've lived in these eight months. I don't remember. And, therefore, I give you this congratulations on this job. I think it's everyone's job and, well, we'll see when it touches, we'll see. It'll be September, I suppose. Well, have fun.
