ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. We therefore enter the agenda. First point. Debates and votes on the non-financial expenditure limit of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022, as referred to in Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u2	The procedure is that the Council of Galicia, on 19 July 2021, agreed on the ceiling on non-financial expenditure of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022, which is fixed at 11,571 million euros, in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011, of 16 June, on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, referred to this House for approval, together with the report of the Financial and Fiscal Strategy referred to in Article 12.1 of that Act. Before the vote, the Government has a 15-minute round for its presentation and then a round is granted for each of the parliamentary groups for a period of 10 minutes. So for the presentation, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u3	Lots of bitches, president. Good morning, gentlemen. I am here today before Parliament to present the non-financial expenditure limit for the year 2022 which was adopted last Thursday by the Council of Galicia, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. With this, it's been eleven years bringing to the House the roof of expenditure, an instrument with which the Government of Greece has been a pioneer in its adoption by law. Furthermore, the German legislation, in order to bet on maximum transparency, has established that not only the Executive had to approve it, but also that it had to be submitted to the consideration of the Autonomic Parliament in order to seek permission from this limit of non-financial expenditure, the procedure in which we find ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I would like to point out is that this year we are presenting to Parliament the ceiling of expenditure in time and form, after three consecutive exercises with a delay over the normal and usual budgetary cycle, in the three cases with a delay which is not attributable to the Government of Greece. And we can bring it to this plenary in time and form because we approve it at the Council only 24 hours after the fiscal and financial policy council; a meeting where we receive essential information for its preparation. With this process, and thanks to the political and institutional stability we have, we can guarantee that Galicia will have another year, in 2022, budgets. Our goal is to hand over the autonomous accounts to this House before October 20 so that we can have the 2022 budgets in force as of January 1st. We want to be diligent because budgets are the main tool for overcoming the pandemic and continuing to reactivate the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that unfortunately we are still suffering from curfew-19, the vaccination process has drastically reduced the severity of the infections, and we hope that in the coming weeks it will be possible to immunise more and more young populations, which is the one that is now having more positive cases precisely because they have not yet been able to be vaccinated. Fortunately, the debate on the expenditure ceiling for 2022 takes place in a much more positive context than in the previous year, because the forecast is that, both in this exercise and in the next year, Galicia will maintain a strong economic growth, after the sudden fall of 2020 due to the pandemic, which, despite being smaller than the average in Spain, has affected in a very important way both families and businesses. From the German Government we work every day for economic recovery and employment, so that this is as fast as possible. The second question I want to stress is that the expenditure ceiling for 2022, as we have presented last year, is exceptional, because we will continue to have extraordinary resources to try to meet three priorities: to overcome the pandemic in terms of health, to regain economic activity and employment to place ourselves as early as before the pandemic and to guarantee protection for both families and the economic sectors. As is customary to fix the expenditure ceiling, the first thing we did was an update of the macroeconomic framework, to, on the one hand, adapt the 2021 to the evolution of the pandemic and, on the other, estimate forecasts for the 2022 realistic and prudent. It should be borne in mind that the current macroeconomic framework was estimated at the end of 2020 and that the successive pandemic waves, most accused in the first quarter of this year, had an impact on forecast. At this moment, our estimates, carried out by the Galego Institute of Statistics, point to a path of sustained growth based both on the advance of domestic demand and external demand. According to these forecasts, Galicia will grow to a minimum of 5.5 % this year, and 6 % in the following year; a positive development that will allow us to achieve by the mid-2022 the level of wealth before two quarters before the average of Spain's set. Since the beginning of the pandemic, consumption has been affected by restrictions on mobility and uncertainty around the labour market, which has led to an increase in savings. The forecast, once restrictions are reduced, is that consumption increases. We believe that investment will be driven by European funds, most of them dedicated to public investment, which will have a drag effect on private investment. External demand is considered to be positive in the two years since the improvement in the health situation in the countries around us -- our main economic partners -- will favour exports. With regard to employment, its evolution will also be positive, both in 2021, with a forecast of 4.4% growth in full-time equivalent jobs, and an increase of 3.6% in 2022. We need to take into account the restrictions that mobility has caused with regard to the increase in inactive approval in the year 2021, in view of the impossibility of an active job search. But the improvement in the economic situation will lead to the re-entry of this population into the market. With this scenario, the average unemployment rate for 2021 is 12.7 %, which will be reduced to 12.1 % in 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, once the macroeconomic framework update has been explained, I expounded to you how we calculated the income for the year 2022, an exercise in which, as I said, we will have extraordinary resources, as I shall then detail. I would like to begin by exposing to you the expected evolution of income that we can consider as ordinary. The departure, which, within Galicia's non-financial resources, is of greater importance, comes from the system of self-financing. This share generally amounts to 80 % of the total, but at this expenditure limit it falls to 71 % because of the significant increase in the next generation funds of the European Union. Thus, for the next year, the total amount of resources from the autonomous financing system is increased by 1,9 % up to EUR 7,994.7 million; this is due to the combined effect of the calculation of deliveries to the account, the liquidation of the financial year 2020, the late payment of the negative settlement accounts of 2008 and 2009 and the extraordinary compensation for the negative settlement of 2020. As regards deliveries to the account of 2022, they experience an increase of 6,9 %, collecting the fruits of economic recovery, mainly due to the increase in deliveries from the Suficiency Fund, the IRPF and the Guarantee Fund. As for the ordinary finalist transfers of other administrations, they account for 1,236 million euros. In addition, in order to complete regular departures, we will have other non-financial resources, amounting to EUR 1,070 million. If we refer to non-financial own resources, which are made up of assigned taxes, own, public and private prices and capital income, it is estimated that their amount will increase by 18 %, thus reaping the positive effects of recovery. These forecasts respond to the positive developments in activity and the increase in market prices, which will lead to an increase in the expected collection. As for the public deficit as a result of the extraordinary situation since last year, when fiscal rules were suspended, by 2022 the Government of Spain maintains a reference rate that we will continue in Galicia. Thus, we decided to use a public deficit of 0.6 %, representing 415 million euros, as much as possible at the reference rate targeted by the Central Government, but almost half as much as this year, which rose to 1.1 % of GDP. We made this decision because before the pandemic we had practically completed the fiscal consolidation path, Galicia being the autonomous community that has increased its indebtedness in the last decade. For this reason, we are in a better position to choose these exceptional years for a debt that, in any case, will remain responsible. Finally, those referred to as adjustments in national accounts are included, with a negative amount of EUR 41 million. Ladies and gentlemen, to these regular resources amounting to EUR 10,675.5 million we will add up to EUR 895 million of extraordinary resources; a significantly smaller amount than this year, partly because in 2022 the state central government will not receive the extraordinary transfer to finance the extraordinary costs caused by the pandemic. Thus, in order to maintain a similar spending capacity this year, the most important share of extraordinary resources will come through the European funds, so that, as a whole, an increase of 24,4 % is estimated, mainly by the inclusion of additional resources coming from the recovery and resilience mechanism to address the unprecedented effects of the coward-19 crisis. The forecast is that Galicia accounts for EUR 417.3 million, which marks a minimum in today's world. In addition, the resources of the second year's React-EU are collected, an aid to the recovery of cohesion in Europe's territories, with a programme of EUR 267 million. And finally, it includes 2011 million additional euros corresponding to the 2017 EVI monthly and that we had to have transferred the Central Government in 2019 in compliance with the autonomic financing system. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you that a number of initiatives have been adopted in this House. The Central Government has repeatedly denied this transfer and has withheld this money without access to a dialogue solution. That's why, after exhausting all the avenues of dialogue, the German Government came to the Supreme Court, which gave Galicia the reason in the past month of May, concluding that this money is from the Greeks and the Greeks. If it weren't for this amount, the spending ceiling would be down 211 million euros. With these resources we will have a similar spending capacity this year, which -- straight -- is exceptional because of the pandemic. Your Honor, it is thus put at an end to Galicia's fair claim, which the Central Government has only assumed after a judicial sentence. If the next year all autonomous communities receive the 2017 EVV pending, it's not because it was the intention of the central government, but because it's the fulfilment of a judicial sentence that gave reason to Galicia, as well as Castile and León. Therefore, after hearing some very unfortunate statements, it is satisfactory to be able to render accounts in the plenary of this Parliament of the position that the Government has always held in defence of Galicia, because Galicia led in 2018 the fair complaint of the IVE and Galicia also led the solution three years later so that these resources retained by the Central Government would be transferred in 2022 to all communities, whether or not to the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, since institutional loyalty, but firmly, this government has defended Galicia and made itself respectable. The Journal of Sessions will take note of the position that each one held. What's really important now is that in 2022 the Greeks will recover the 211 million euros that Galicia had the right to and will help us overcome the pandemic and revive the economy. Once the revenue has been explained, we presented to the House a prudent and rigorous expenditure ceiling for 2022, which amounts to 11,571 billion euros, with a slight increase of 8 million in relation to the budgetary capacity of this exercise. Of this amount, 11.197 are non-financial income, 415 come from the deficit target and 41 correspond to negative national accounting adjustments. With this limit of non-financial expenditure, we are ready to begin drafting the budgets of the Autonomous Community for the next exercise; some accounts to boost the recovery of economic activity and employment, based on the Next Generation Strategy and the Strategic Plan, based on sustainable and socially and territorially cohesiond growth, building on innovation and knowledge for development. To this end, we will focus on the special resources for productive investment and the maintenance of the provision with guarantees of socio-health and education services. I call on all parliamentary groups to support this expenditure ceiling, with the aim of overcoming the pandemic, recovering the economy and strengthening the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. In short, it is a spending ceiling drawn up from prudent forecasts, with less indebtedness and less extraordinary resources, with more own resources and more European funds for recovery, which it recovers for Galicia, thanks to the firmness of the Government of Galicia -- with the support of this House -- the 211 million euros of the 2017 VAT held by the Central Government, and which will allow to recover, in the middle of 2022...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u5	...and before the average of Spain, wealth predates the pandemic, with three priorities: to overcome the pandemic in terms of health, to continue to reactivate economic activity and employment and to ensure the protection and well-being of our families and our businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u6	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to live in times of enormous difficulty, in exceptional times, because of the gravity of events, in times when public policies and economic policies have to be more effective than ever. Citizenship remains concerned about two major reference elements: vaccination and reactivation. Vaccination is also the basis for the economic reactivation of our country. Vaccination is the best guarantee to be able to fight the virus, and it's also the drop of hope that allows you to infiltrate the future with horizons, with strategy and country-planning. And reactivation is the challenge that economic policies have to address, rightly, with spending capacity and with the ability to manage budgets that are put at the service of reactivation. The strategy that Spain is following is right in vaccination, and it's also right in reactivation, and it's doing so because the Government of Spain has marked two main lines: a vaccination strategy alongside science, health professionals, and the European Union, which has been able to start vaccination since the beginning of this year, and because the Government of Spain has achieved a set of economic public spending policies in the European Union that allow radically change the orientation of adjustment policies that the right hand applied in other economic crises. That's why we have to add ourselves to that strategy, that of vaccination and that of reactivation, that of vaccination, vaccination, vaccination, and that of putting all the possibilities of public administrations to defend policies for people. And that's what we have to do also since the Government of Galicia. There are months behind when the right-wing refused expansional policies or Keynesian policies to deal with the economic crisis. There are months behind when the President of the Union was suspicious that we could start vaccination from the beginning of this year and thought there would be no vaccines until the second quarter of 2021, when now 70 percent of the Greeks have at least one vaccination dose and we're going to meet the targets set by the President of the Government of Spain. But today you are proposing a spending capacity that reduces the spending ceiling with respect to the previous year. This year 2021 the ceiling on the expenditure of the Welsh Autonomy is at 11,664 million euros, and you are planning a spending ceiling for 2022 which reduces the spending possibilities of the Greek Autonomy by 93 million euros. They want to put the spending ceiling on 11,571 million, and I mean, Government gentlemen, Mr. President, Economic Counsellor, Business Councillor, who are not afraid of expanding policies, who remain unhindered by the rest of the policy of cuts and austerity, who assume that budgets have a key role to play in reactivating Galicia and that these foundations have to mark four major lines for reactivation. We need budgets that are the budgets of growth, we need budgets that are the budgets of employment, we need budgets that are the budgets of equality and social cohesion and we need budgets that are the budgets of modernization, with the ecological transition and the digital transition ahead. And for that it is necessary to assume that public spending is a positive recipe and it is not a problem, that we can take the expenditure ceiling, making the necessary expansional policies, where Galicia is fitting, that we can't leave behind anyone, because the Government of the People's Party continues to want to practice the austerity recipes instead of assuming the possibilities of spending that the Government of Spain marks with European institutions and a European fund plan that changes almost everything. I mean to tell you to change that reaction that you have, that rejection that they have to expand policies. The Government of the PP, in Spain and Galicia, very badly managed the great economic recession of 2008 and 2009. I understand that it's hard for you to get up to date, to understand that economic and expansional policies are an element to improve the country, but you have to do it, despite your DNA, which remains the DNA of cuts, aid and austerity. And they have to do it because Galicia sees that there are many problems that have not been answered since this government. When we go to public health, we find ourselves with waiting lists in primary care, we find that they close 600 hospital beds this summer in Galicia, we find ourselves with the College of Doctors in Pontevedra province presenting a criminal complaint against directors and directors of the Health Council for saturation in primary care and we find ourselves with more waiting lists in surgeons and specialists, because public health needs staff, stable contracts and resources, and you don't want to give them. [[Applause]] We must also bet on education, because we cannot start course 2021-2022 by firing hundreds of teachers who have been hired to strengthen public education in this course, because Galicia is still in the queue of social policies. That is what the report of managers and managers of social care is all over Spain. We are the 13th community, the 3rd out of the 17 autonomous communities in social services, we have fewer personnel in social services per inhabitant, we have less social expenditure per inhabitant, there is risk of poverty and this crisis also poses a risk to inequality. It is necessary to continue providing tax support to many sectors that are now closed and that have difficulties, because, when this fifth wave implies that we have to lower the level of escalation in so many Galicians, there are many families that have to close windows, businesses and their economic possibilities. We need to increase spending on R+D+i, which is not expenditure, investment, and that's why we need a spending capacity to hire more researchers and researchers, to raise science spending to 1.5% of GDP in Galicia, and we need to increase investment in culture, we have to go to 1% of cultural investment within the budgets of the Union, because Galician boys want to have a future in the country and because you have, with these possibilities of spending of 11.500 million that you raise with this expenditure ceiling, but also with the possibilities that you don't want to explore, the possibility of generating jobs for young people and girls. You rejected a job plan that with 10 million euros could generate this year 3,000 jobs for young Greek girls and boys. Don't keep cutting. [[Applause]] Every million euros you take out of the budgets are thousands of jobs that are lost in Galicia. And women need equality policies to get out of this crisis, to bet on conciliation and to be able to get out ahead and stay out of the way. Expansive policy is necessary, Keynesian policy is necessary, and you use funds that arrive, but you don't manage what you can do. We would like to be able to give them a vote of credibility, but we have seen in the Reactivation Committee that today the more than 100 million euros of the so-called Consent Fund are not to be delivered, without delay, without executing in the budgets of the Galician Union, and that shows that the Government of the People's Party has no will or efficiency to manage public funds in the greatest economic and social crisis. They never knew how to do it. [[Applause]] You've applied the cuts for a decade in Galicia, and suddenly you find yourself in the biggest budgets in our country's history and you don't know how to use them to modernize the economy, to grow, to generate jobs and to boost the future of the Greeks and the Greeks. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, once again miss an opportunity to reactivate Galicia, to give Galicia an economic policy that gives the Greeks and the Greeks a future. These budgets have a component, which is that we have to involve society as a whole. We need to find the ability to reach agreements to reactivate Galicia, but you don't want to. These budgets that you will be able to execute can have a higher expenditure ceiling if you want, and I'm going to give you an example: eliminate the last reform that you've made from the property tax, which was a reform dedicated to freeing people from paying taxes. Stop being the partners of the millionaires of Galicia and get to work for the Greeks and the Greeks, who need social policy, public services, employment, growth and equality. [[Applause]] That's why you're suspended. And that's why it's never too late to change and improve. These budgets that you will be able to draw up at the end of this year will provide an orientation of economic policy by the year 2022. We know that the potential for growth is there, that the Greek economy has had about five quarters of consecutive negative growth from the time of the pandemic and that there is capacity in this 2021 and in 2022 to have positive growth rates that revive the economy and the possibilities of the country. For that, these budgets incorporate a significant amount of European funds. They're going to be what's going to allow the ceiling to grow to the level it's at, under this year's end. I mean, they're ambitious, because of the Greeks and the Greeks, they're not in the policy of cuts, they're abandoning that policy of saving money on the mattress, being racans, when the gales and the worst of them are going through. Put funds into the hands of the Greeks, the municipalities, health, education, employment, work for the Greeks and the Greeks and increase public spending, because it's a reason to boost demand, consumption, investment, generate virtuous circles that have a multiplier effect to get the country out of the economic crisis and to put the Greeks in a prosperous and progress situation. I mean, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the time of austerity in the face of economic crises has changed; it has changed despite you, that even at the beginning of this year it has been to vote against the real decree that allows these European funds to be in the hands of autonomy from now on. Because there is an important commitment, which allows 55% of the European 2021 funds to be in the hands of the autonomous communities, and the Government of Spain has already anticipated 7,230 million of the European funds to the autonomous communities, which will manage about 10,500 million. You guys have to get to work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u9	We don't know what projects want to boost in Galicia, we don't know what the priorities for European funds are; they're still in the policy of opacity, in the policy of doing nothing. In Galicia, when talking about economic policy, you are absent. The Greeks and the Greeks know that the Government of the United States has left them orphans, who have no management to reactivate Galicia, who have no power. We have to make politics for people at the moment of the greatest crisis. And so public spending is not a problem, so you can increase your ability to do more for health, education, social services, if you make a policy that understands that equality is fundamental. And equality is fundamental to putting funds and public services in the hands of those who need it most, and for that they have to contribute to those who have the most. This Government of the People's Party remains hostage to the DNA of adjustments and austerity. This is a government of the People's Party that has fallen arms and doesn't want to push the reactivation from the Galician Union; a government of the People's Party surpassed by a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u10	Thank you, Mr. Knight, your time is up. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Knight, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u11	Thank you very much. Good morning, gentlemen. Counselor. The economist Mariana Mazzucato recently said that the goal at this time of the pandemic is not to return to normal, because normal is not only what brought us into this chaos, but also in the financial crisis and the climate crisis. We agree with this diagnosis that Mazzucato makes, because, of course, we are living in an exceptional moment that is going through three crises: the health crisis, the economic crisis and a climate crisis. And in these exceptional circumstances, it's not worth the recipes you bring us here today, which represent returning to that old normality. We want to develop a new economic model that has to strengthen public services, that has to put Galicia to produce, betting on innovation and creating quality jobs, and that must also face environmental emergencies. Of course, budget debate is very important, because budgets are the letter of presentation to where you want to walk this government; they are a statement of intent. And, of course, on that way to approve budgets, the spending ceiling is a first step that already indicates which direction the Government of the People's Party wants to take, which is that of the cuts, when expansion is needed, and that of reducing expenditure and investment, when most needed, because we are in full crisis. I'd like to start by saying that it's a matter of concern that at a time like this the roof goes down, even though Mr. Feijóo tried to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that there was more investment. But the reality is that in 2021 the People's Party approved in this Parliament a spending ceiling of 11,664 million euros and that today they bring to this House a spending ceiling of 11,571 million euros. Just with a very simple arithmetic operation, we can see that it's 93 million euros less. It's also important to say that, within these incomes, as you pointed out, the 211 million euros that the state had to return to us in relation to the VAT, but these are budgets that were already calculated in 2017. So if you did your job well, that county should already be invested. So if we remove the makeup from their figures, the reality is that the spending ceiling drops at least EUR 304 million. In other words, in the midst of an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis, the Government of Feijóo is planning to invest less. Once again, the president of the board is a kind of kamikaze that goes in the opposite direction on the highway, and, when it touches on choosing an expansive budget, what he does is cut off the investment. [[Applause]] That reduction in the expenditure ceiling we are very afraid that it is the beginning of routine budgets, that will bring old failed recipes, that will not allow Galician capacity to be able to get out of this crisis, that they will not help recovery and that they will not promote productive capacity, nor lay the foundations of a new economic model, which, of course, must be sustainable, based on science, research, quality employment and equality. It's a cut that won't allow public services to be strengthened like health care, or to put in place a new model of residence that guarantees the right to a decent old age. Of course, we think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that this spending ceiling is not the answer that Galicia needs in a time of pandemic, and that it is not an answer that is at the time. The budgets of the PP will not be the budgets to solve the lessons of the pandemic, nor will they be the budgets that allow us to deal with structural problems that Galicia already had and that the pandemic has intensified. It won't be the assumptions that turn twelve years of health cuts, nor will those that draw primary attention to collapse and saturation. And at this point, let me tell you that the position of the PP government is indecent and that it rubs the prevarication, because, knowing how health centres and the healthcare staff are, they're not moving a finger to get the public health out of the limited situation you've placed it. [[Applause]] And it has to be said with all clarity: it is literally inhuman what they are doing with primary care, both with regard to the abuse of professionals and professionals as well as with the deterioration of the health of citizens, because the cuts have consequences, and of course we are seeing them right now. That is why we insist that a primary care shock plan with EUR 200 million is needed to rescue professionals and citizens and that we need this government to understand that the next budgets must place primary care at 25% of Sergas' public expenditure. [[Applause]] We also see, ladies and gentlemen, that with a low-cost ceiling it will not be possible to recover for the public the management of public residences, and of course it will not be cutting revenue as if the productive sectors will be reactivated, although the pandemic makes very clear the importance of producing basic goods which are fundamental here. And it won't be cutting down the expenditure ceiling as if you can give Galicia tools to solve structural problems, because this country, before the crisis of the coward, had already escaped talent, an industrial desertification that advances unstoppablely or a demographic collapse that is exacerbated by the massive emigration of new people. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2009 the budget for the Union was EUR 11,426 million. As you see, it's a very similar figure that the People's Party brings to this Parliament today, but we know that today's resources are not equal to the resources of ten years ago, and, if we take into account what an accumulated IPC 14.4% meant, the reality is that Galicia is going to have less resources in 2022 to face the worst crisis we've experienced in times of peace than we had in 2009 and therefore it's an irresponsibility that they are not aware that to get out of this crisis you need an impulse that will not give you these budgets. We understand, of course, that resources are needed, also ideas to know how to invest those resources in a solvent way, but without resources we won't be able to do it. And in order to get Galicia to receive until the last euro that is ours to deal with this crisis, we need Mr Feijóo to abandon the argumentary of Genoa and to exercise for once as president of this country, to seek, as other nations do, a bilateral relationship with the state in order to obtain the resources we need, putting Galicia's demands on the table. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is important, seeing the inadequacies of the resources that you bring us here today, to call for a bilateral joint state commission to negotiate on an equal footing the funding that Galicia needs to overcome this crisis and give solutions to the challenges of the future; a bilateral commission that, from our point of view, must put on the table three central issues: the Next Generation funds, the investments in the State budgets for 2022 and a new model of funding. With regard to this first issue, we understand that these funds will be the only extraordinary ones, and what we have so far, is that although the Spanish State has been allocated more than 50,000 million euros, Galicia has received and managed less than 2% of the total and less than 6% of the distributed among the autonomous communities. This implies not only that there is a risk of centralization, but that the German Government is harming its duties, among other things because, when those funds had to be voted upon for Galicia, the People's Party who voted, like the Socialist Party, was "no" to that direct management in our country. But they are in time to react and demand that bilateral negotiation. [[Applause]] The second question is that, of course, there must be a fair deal in the State budgets of 2022. We can't repeat the history of the last few years, where we saw as PP governments and PSOE governments, and we can see what they gave our country cutbacks while other territories here had a rain of millions. They get to work to sue for that fair deal. And the third question is a new financing model that allows this country to have the key to money to set its priorities for spending and investment. What we can't afford is that the key to the money of the Greeks and the Greeks is still in Madrid, because what we see is that the current model is very expensive to Galicia and that it is an unserviceable model. Of course, this crisis has left its seams in the air, and we want the format of that bilateral commission to be the guide that must be followed. We are seeing that Euskadi and Cataluña are using that route with favorable results and that they can unlock transfers or get millionaire investments. The People's Party in Galicia votes against this position. I don't know if now in Andalusia they bet on bilaterality the Government of Greece will start to come out of that submission and start to see that this is the way to work, put Galicia's problems on the table and, of course, confront them with another position. [[Applause]] We, ladies and gentlemen, are at a key point in which country ambition is required and in what is not worth sterile confrontation or submission. It's not worth, of course, triumphalism, nor is it always compared here with what's worse, or twisting the data to create a kind of fake reality. We see it, for example, with the debt. They always compare to those who are worse, but they hide one thing, and you tripled Galician debt. And what we don't see is where the results are from having passed from 4,859 million euros from debt to 11,738. It didn't go down the debt, but you're raising it. As it's also really dramatic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u13	... and finish -- Mr. Counsellor, that we are told that the labour market data is fine because the unemployment rate is lower, hiding that the unemployment rate is low not because it is creating quality jobs, but because thousands of young people and girls leave this country every year. It's, of course, a shame. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we said at the outset, we believe that this is a time when there is a need for expanding budgets, and the only thing that brings the People's Party to this Parliament is cuts. So it doesn't contain with BNG either for the cuts or to continue with old failed recipes, because what we need are new ideas to get Galicia out of this crisis. Unfortunately, what we see is routine, the same old cuts and a People's Party that didn't learn from the mistakes of the 2009 crisis. We can't support this spending roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by congratulating the team of the Council and the Counsellor, because nothing but twenty-four hours after knowing what the accounts would be and holding the Tax and Financial Policy Council on Thursday, already the Board of Directors approved the spending ceiling, and on Friday we had all the report and documentation in Parliament, even more in advance than on other occasions. Certainly, that contributes to transparency. And it must always be remembered that this is one of the few autonomous parliaments -- if not the only one -- that debates the expenditure ceiling, because in the other autonomous communities it is simply approved by the Government, without debate with the opposition. And there was also speed in the presentation of a spending ceiling that no one questioned in the technical aspects and there's also good efficiency in management. Finally, the work of the Council, the work of the Government and this debate contribute to democratic normality, which we believe is important at the political moment that Spain is living. Certainly, the crisis is unprecedented. It's said that it was the normality that brought us to this moment. What brought us to this moment was a completely abnormal virus, and the proof is that the main crisis was the health care, as later said during the intervention. We're in an unprecedented crisis, exogenous, caused by a virus that nobody expected. There is practically no economic study to say what the impact of this kind of crisis is. There are some who have to do with natural disasters, such as the Chile earthquake, or even, on the subject of Iran, such as the earthquakes prior to the Ayatolas revolution, but there is very little debate, and the little thing we know is that this kind of thing comes out faster because it does not actually affect the bottom of the productive system and that it affects most of the small countries -- and that is why it is a reinforcement, precisely, that of Spain belongs to the European Union, and therefore, against setting new borders, because it is the small countries that are most affected by the natural disasters -- Certainly, Europe is doing what it is doing to take advantage of the lessons from the past to make decisions, which are allowing us to get out of the crisis much better than we were before it, with an impressive effort in the field of health. Vaccines have a lot to do with the European Union's efforts in investment and research contracts, and secondly with investments in cohesion and income maintenance. The ERTE -- that invention that wanted to derogate from the labour reform of the People's Party and which is so well resulting in the crises, as we are seeing -- were basically funded by the European React funds, and certainly the 140 billion funds of the mechanism for economic and structural transformation, energy renewal, the reorientation of old policies that we see have suffered especially, as tourism can be, above all, the digitization of the economy and the entry into the new knowledge economy, and of course, along with equity, something that is important, very important at this time, also in view of the lessons learned from the past with other natural crises, as can be the case of Chile. Certainly, there have been changes in governance. What's not here right now is routine. There are some obvious changes in governance: there are fiscal impulses, there are monetary impulses, led to the modernization of the productive fabric, there is a relaxation of tax rules, there is also a change in tax governance -- not only of European fiscal governance, but also of the world, like the agreement of the group of twenty, which then subscribed 130 countries to a single business taxation in all the developed countries -- and of course there is attention to equity. No one is questioning decisions even supported by us -- obviously, because we always defend well-being -- like the minimum vital income, such as strengthening social services and, of course, the social services directed at the attention of older people at a stage in which Galicia, Spain and Europe are aging. And all this comes from a broad social consensus in Europe among the political forces we call Christian, popular, liberal and social democrats, which unfortunately does not seem to be useful for Spain, because even the most outstanding of this expenditure ceiling, Mr. Caballero, is that it goes through the book of what the Government of Spain proposes to us, and to you it seems little, which is surprising. Because you always defend the Government of Spain against the Government of the United States, except when the Government of the United States goes through the book of what the Government of Spain calls, for example, within the bounding limit, that we are going to a maximum that is authorized by the Government of Spain as a reference, which is 0.6%. Don't say it's not because it's real, it's like that. [[Mr. Knight Miguez denies with his head.]] Don't say no. Well, we understand that at the moment the macroeconomic framework, the expenditure ceiling, is realistic, is prudent and is adjusted to all forecasts, to international forecasts of the growth of the Spanish economy, to the national forecasts of the Banco de España, Airef or to the growth of the Spanish economy and also of the Galician economy, and, of course, to the forecasts made by organisms in Galicia, such as the Economic Forum or the Abanca Observatory, which really in that context establish a growth of Galicia above that of the Spanish media -- and I insist on incorporating prudent data-- It's 11,571 million, of which 10,675 are ordinary incomes, among other things, thanks to the recovery of the collection, which is more intense in Galicia -- because economic recovery is being more intense in Galicia than in Spain -- and, of course, it's an expansive budget, not only for spending that is going to be higher than last year, which was extraordinary as a result of an unprecedented health crisis, but also for income, because it's talking about expansion thinking that expansion is spending more. It depends, too, it's expansion not to raise taxes and even lower them, which is what's making half Europe and not, unfortunately, the Government of Spain, but if this board, that will keep tax cuts, that will allow families and small and medium-sized enterprises to have capital, to have liquidity to invest and get out of the crisis. In fact, it's personal savings that is taking us out of the economic crisis right now; a consumption savings that will soon have to be translated into investment, and, as I said a moment ago, with a indebtedness limit and a reference rate of 0.6%, 415 million euros, which is what the Government of Spain suggests and which it turns out here, if we apply it, it's little ambitious. We have extraordinary resources, and that's important to remember: in an extraordinary situation, extraordinary resources. Firstly, Mechanism, Recovery and Resilience, 417 million, the second annuality of the European Union React, 266 million, which means that from Europe directly comes nearly 700 million euros, which plus the suspensions of the spending rules, which allow ourselves to be indebted to 415, is 1,100 million euros. But besides all this, there are also extraordinary resources, because this government has defended Galicia's interests. There are 211 million EVI, Mrs. Pontón, who were spent in 2019, only with regard to debt. Mrs Pontón does not listen, and, as she does not listen, she will repeat here that we do not spend the 211 million EVE we put in the 2019 budgets, which we spend on debt, which now come directly transferred and allow the spending ceiling to exceed the non-financial expenditure executed during the current exercise of the current exercise. [[Applause]] Mr. Knight, we defend Galician interests, and I want to remind you that you started by saying in 2018 that the EVI claim was a childish rabies, that it was a demonstration of political cynicism and that, in addition, it was the blame of the PP. In 2019, in the 2019 debate, his group abstained when we claimed the 211 million euros -- don't say no, because it's in Parliament's minutes -- and by 2020, as there were elections, he gave a little more to the candy and he came to say that Feijóo points to the fact that "Spain steals us," he literally said. He said, judicially, there would be no solution to the problem; it would be a solution to the problem with the reform of the autonomic financial system. Look where -- look where!-- without reforming the system of self-financing, we solve the problem the communities we claim, which, moreover, benefit the socialists, who did not claim. You noticed what prediction you had. Did you apologize today? No, no, no, no. Here we are and we keep saying that "Spain steals us," that this is our argument. Well, that's your call. [[Applause]] We defend Galicia's interests in the courts, and all that, all those extraordinary incomes, to which we must add the VAT -- which we claim in the courts -- are those that enable us to fulfil the objectives of maintaining the fight against the pandemic, health expenditure, the protection of families and small and medium-sized enterprises and working for economic reactivation and the transformation of an economy that is making the greatest investor effort of all autonomous communities: capital expenditure weight, 13.5 in 2020 and 7.2, the average of Spain. They also allow you to keep the expenses for well-being. Since we're running social action and social promotion expenditure has risen by 66% from the last budget you made to the left; health expenditure by 2%; education expenditure by 9%; research and development expenditure by 55%; and information society expenditure by 351%. And you keep talking about cuts, then we'll do it! Just like they say we owe ourselves a lot, when, in fact, we don't compare ourselves with the best or the worst, but we compare ourselves with the average. When you were ruling in 2008, Galicia had 2 tenths more indebtedness than the average of the autonomous communities. Galicia currently has 19.9 % of GDP in debt and the average of autonomous communities is 27 % because a reasonable debt has been made. Ladies and gentlemen, today there are numbers of unemployment that show that the Greek economy is reasonably doing well, given the circumstances. He has fled triumphalism, but simply, given the circumstances, the economy is creating jobs. In the last year it decreased by 13 %, and the average of Spain by 9.45 %. Social Security affiliates increased by 3%, and we're above the social security affiliations we had before the pandemic. Certainly, the economy is giving very good surprises: automotive, agri-food industry, only 2% of all affiliates are still in ERTE... and, of course, this is because of the institution's strength. As I said just now, the director of the Galician Economic Forum, in an article in the press, the strength of the ability of the vaccination process... you say that the vaccination process... No more vaccination because there are no more vaccines. You were saying before the vaccination process began that there was no organisational capacity or ability to put up the vaccines that we said could be updated. And in the end, I don't say it's the government of Spain, there's the one, but the fact is that the capacity of the board and the public services has been demonstrated, not only in the health care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u17	...but also in all public services. We bring a spending ceiling above the non-financial expenditure of last year, and the opposition criticizes it, I think in a very contradictory way. Mr. Caballero says we have to do what the Government of Spain commands, and Mrs. Pontón says we have to go for bilaterality. The BNG continues with its Santiago Day, Galicia Day, the day of the Greek nation, and everything without limits. This seems to me to be a political argument of Peter Pan, a Peter Pan syndrome. There are limits in life, there are limits in time -- which is already reminding me of the President of the House -- but there are limits to tax pressure, and there are limits also to growth, both environmental and factual, and, for example, demography. Of course -- and this is a scientific presumption -- they say they're going to listen to scientists. Well, listen to the scientists of economic science. Because it turns out that there are economic limits, that there are economic limits that come from belonging to a single currency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u19	...in a federal environment, because one can speak of the federal environment once the European Union owes itself, and certainly the decisions of one's indebtedness affect others and there must be a system of governance and a logic of aid and redistribution through the recovery funds which implies that one day we will have to actually return to financial stability. And the PSOE today didn't say anything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u20	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u21	......one second...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u22	Thanks, time's up. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Puy, your time is up. Thank you, Mr. Puy. Time's up. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Your time is over, please, Mr. Puy! Time's up, just like Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u23	After the debate has been closed and all Members are present, we shall vote on the ceiling for non-financial expenditure on the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2022. We vote. Voted on the limit of non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2022, as referred to in Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. This ceiling for non-financial expenditure of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u24	Finish this point here. We continue with the second item on the agenda, which is showing up. Mr. Health Adviser's comparability to report on measures to curb the fifth wave of the Covid-19, the collapse of Primary Care and Emergency Services and the functioning of the positive people tracking system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u25	To formulate this intervention, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña. Whenever you want, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u26	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come today in response to Parliament's request, since from the very first moment our provision has always been complete in transferring that information to you in particular on the evolution of the pandemic. Nobody expected to be in this situation in these summer months, especially when we had a high vaccination rate of 71 percent. This wave -- I refuse to call it "fifteen" because in Galicia the fourth we haven't passed it; so I'm always going to talk about wave, not fifth -- unlike the previous ones, despite the high number of cases we have, because of the significantly lower hospital pressure, so the measures have had to adapt to this particularity. Let me begin by recalling, of course, all the people who died in Galicia because of the pandemic, including the ten who died during this weekend and that we incorporated yesterday in our report. Of course, all condolences to their families and loved ones. [[Applause]] But today I also want to have a special reminder for an employee of this council, Dr. Manuel Varela Porto, who died sadly yesterday, when he was heading to his job at the Mobile Pain Unit installed in Tomino and, of course, the greatest condolences to him and his family, and our gratitude. One of his children works with us at Ourense Hospital. I repeat, our condolences to him, his family, the close friends and the friends of the Agency of Donation in Galicia. [[Applause]] In recent weeks, all Spain -- and also Galicia -- has either been living a moment of accumulated incidence, especially concentrated in younger age groups, which have not yet been vaccinated. According to the latest data, Galicia has today even a cumulative incidence of 14 days of 664.85 -- in this case, cases per 100,000 inhabitants -- but which focuses especially on the 12 to 29-year-old fringes, a group where the incidence reaches figures that we have not seen so far. According to the Ministry's data, yesterday we had 1,932 to fourteen days in the group from 12 to 19 and 2,272 in the group from 20 to 29. I mean, it must be noted that the incidence accumulated at seven days is already in 292.06, already under the incidence accumulated at fourteen days. Therefore, before this rise of cases, especially concentrated in this age group, which is characterized by having a greater number of social interactions, together with a high percentage of vaccinated population in this case -- a question that allowed the number of hospitalizations, as we said earlier, to be significantly reduced, and also, fortunately, of deaths -- the Unity of Galicia has taken, with the support of the Clinical Committee, measures adapted to this new situation. First, we started to calculate the incidences that determine the levels of the municipalities, using what we call "adjusted rate", according to the hospitalization that generates, in this case, the virus, of course, already much lower than in other waves, as we explained. In this way, prevention and control measures were established in accordance with the new scenario in which we were found, mainly in cases of younger population, and in which a majority percentage has no significant clinical consequences. With this appropriation we also aim to avoid total closures of economic activities, as if it were done at other times in the pandemic, since there are now broad sectors of the population that can participate in them safely, when they are vaccinated. It is also important to limit and restrict groups of people without immunity within the city hall at higher levels, and especially in the interiors of homes at night. In this sense, we also restrict the mass meetings in public spaces at night, introducing the ban on the assembly of non-citizens from the closing time of the night's leisure, according to the level of the council. And we also requested and established the closure and restriction of the use of these spaces in the municipalities, in the villages, known all over the world, where agglomerations were being produced in the so-called "botellons." Here I want to highlight, especially -- and thank you -- the work that the state's security forces and bodies have done in recent weeks to reduce these uncontrolled Thursday meetings, essentially to drink. And, I repeat, I want to thank you for this effort because it happened in the first few months, in the first few weeks of July, but then you've been retrained. We wanted to conform standards to the current reality, which is far from what we've been living for nearly a year and a half, where the vulnerability of the population was much higher. This current reality allows us to count on a resource that we didn't have when we had to face the first one, and above all the third wave: vaccines. Galicia already counts, as we said, with more than 70 % -- 71.2 % to be exact -- of its target immunized population. And we had to use this to make it compatible with restrictions on the maintenance of economic activity. This was the basis on which the Clinical Committee proposed to issue a certificate of vaccination in the municipalities at a high or maximum level in order to access the premises of accommodation, and, in cases where no such certificate is available by age, to submit a certificate of recovery or a certificate of a negative diagnostic test. In this way, we can and can ensure the operation of the hostel, even though the epidemiological situation is improved. By setting an example, when in January we shut down all the non-essential activity and gradually closed down the municipalities, Galicia had an accumulated incidence, at 14 days, of 700. Now there are municipalities with incidences of close to 2,000 that can maintain their entire activity in practice. In this case, what we do is what already works in other countries, for example, in France, Germany, Belgium or even Portugal. Galicia, just as we've been doing since the beginning of the pandemic, has taken adjusted measures and actions have been set in motion that have been taken as an example after other regions, since we the only thing we expected was not to have to relive moments like those of January, to ensure citizens access to the interior of the premises safely and that the hospitality sector, so wide in our community and which lives in these summer months of the most activity, can keep the sites open. The measures taken by the Union were referred to by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, thanks to the intense technical work carried out by public health personnel, the technical general secretariat and the legal advice. But we can finally celebrate that Galicia may also finally have in effect a law with clear legal instruments to manage the pandemic situation. It should be recalled that until now in Galicia our measures were dictated by an organic law of 1986, which only states that: "The health authority, in addition to carrying out general preventive actions, may take appropriate measures for the control of the sick, of persons who are or have been in contact with them and with the immediate environment, as well as those deemed necessary in case of a risk of transmissible character". As a result, our Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia is obliged to interpret whether our measures were timely or necessary without any more discretion than this small and insufficient law. That is why we are calling on the Government of Spain to reform that organic law -- which is what it has committed to do, but which it did not then -- a proposal to amend that organic law, which has not accepted, and therefore, once all these doors have been closed, the Parliament of Galicia has taken the initiative to self-legislate the development of that organic law in order to implement the measures that can be taken and how. Surprisingly, the Government has resorted to this law with great urgency -- an emergency that has not understood either the Council of State -- and has also called for the suspension of those precepts. Last week, the Constitutional Court found that there was no reason for those precepts to be suspended because they did not allow any measure which was not already possible through general law, simply to give legal certainty to administrative acts, to the courts that should interpret them and to citizenship. The court therefore found, moreover, that there is an autonomous regulation in other communities that are not visited by the State with similar contents, if not identical, which supports the argument of the Juridical Council of the Union that no injury should be caused by any of the rights and freedoms when the Central Government does not act under similar laws in other territories. After this, finally, we reached agreement with the Government on the only point that remained in dispute, which was that of vaccination; an agreement we could have reached perfectly from the very beginning without needing all this expertise. It has always been explicit the Union's desire not to subject compulsory vaccination to the common population, but to have a mechanism so that, if the vaccine was declared compulsory, we could have legal instruments to enforce that vaccination, which would in no case declare the Union of Galicia, but the State authorities. That was said to be active and passive from the beginning, and if the Central Government wants it to count even more explicitly in the law, there will be no problem, as there was at no time. Therefore, we already have an effective law to manage the pandemic, despite all efforts to avoid it, and we're going to use it in every possible way as it turns out. We will therefore continue to apply the measures needed to safeguard the health of the Greeks and also continue the efforts of the diagnosis that our community has made throughout the pandemic. So one of our goals at the high incidence of the virus was to maintain and increase the diagnostic capacity, bringing, even more, the population to the diagnostic tests. The detection and isolation of cases is the key to stopping exposure to the virus. That's why we kept the diagnosis in the health centers, in addition to the car-cavid, that were so useful before. Here I want to emphasize that Galicia is right now on an average of 3,000 diagnostic tests per 100,000 inhabitants per week -- not to mention, as we always say, saliva tests, that for the Ministry of Health don't count-- and it's quite above the national average in diagnostic tests. These diagnostic tests should be added to the saliva CRP offered in the pharmacies. Every German can approach his pharmacy office and ask for a saliva test, deliver it the next morning and within 24-48 hours has a result of a saliva PCR made in a microbiology service in this case of a Welsh hospital. In addition, with the entry into force of the decree regulating the sale of antigen tests, self-testing of pharmacies, last July 22 we signed a convention again with pharmaceutical schools -- taking advantage of the capacity that the pharmacy offices have in the territory -- to facilitate these pharmacy offices to believe the results of autotests -- in this case anti-antigen autotests -- with the aim, on the one hand, to detect and isolate the positive cases that may occur and also to facilitate access to the people who test in these offices to certified sectors -- fundamentally to the hostel and nightlife--. There is another measure also related to self-tests, which has been, since the first weekend that they were available, to enable at the Contact Monitoring Centre a specific line so that anyone who had a positive test at home -- not in a pharmacy, but at home -- could easily communicate it to the central, and the central, therefore, to ask for a PCR test, to confirm this result. I must point out that any antigen test must then be corroborated with a PCR test. He said the initiative to do the tests in the pharmacy offices in front of the pharmacists and upload the data to our system allowed on the first day of operation that 525 people had done a test in the pharmacy and detected 14 positive results. It's data that continues to increase. This data corresponds to last Thursday and has been increased all these days. On the other hand, last Saturday, July 24, we enabled pilot testing points for antigen tests in the seven big cities and also at the Barbarian Hospital in Ribeira. They were trying to perform tests on demand and, in this case, without a quote from the unvaccinated population. We obtained a result of frankly surprising participation. In a day, 3,540 tests were performed and 68 positives were detected. In view of the success of this initiative, we consolidated this model and expanded it to offer even more services, taking into account the requests that we could detect in this pilot test. So, since last week, we have 14 points in the different health districts, which will allow, on the one hand, to carry out antigen tests and obtain the corresponding certificate and, on the other hand, perform administrative management related to covid-19, such as the printing of the negative diagnostic test certificate, vaccination or passing disease, activation of key 365 or processing of high speed in case the citizen does not belong to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. I also want here to highlight again the role of the pharmacy offices, which have been providing copies of the paper certificate for weeks now to those people who access the pharmacy and so ask for it -- also with a great demand --. The administrative services, as I said earlier, will be available from Monday to Saturday in all cities, while the service of testing antigens will have some variability. In the great cities there shall be six days a week: in the medium cities three days a week; and in the cities with a comarcal hospital on Saturdays. In total, twenty-one administrative points will be enabled. The early detection of cases and their isolation, as we said, is key to limiting and blocking the progress of infections, so in Galicia we continue with the realization of people's crows. And so, in these weeks, we're stepping up these calls, which we call the participation of 33,000 people on average, with a participation of 54% and a positivity rate of 3.8%. The figures of participation must clearly improve, and we must continue to demand from all platforms the need and importance to come to these appointments in order to be able to detect asymptomatic cases, isolate them and prevent the spread of the virus and the affections of the most vulnerable people. The isolation of close contacts in each case is also fundamental at the time of positive. We know that there have been malfunctions at the beginning of this wave in doing the epidemiological survey on the positive cases detected, so -- and thanks to the flexibility of the system that we have implemented in Galicia -- we've expanded the staff of the Contact Monitoring Centre by incorporating 250 new personnel in the last few weeks. Currently, the power plant makes the first contact with the positive -- as it is established in Galicia -- in the first twenty-four hours, once this diagnosis is found. In fact, this weekend, from July 31st to August 1st, they contacted 2,177 cases -- i.e. 93.06 % --. I repeat that at this percentage you contacted them in the first twenty-four hours. In the remaining 6,94 %, after the four calls, the contact was again attempted the following day. In cases where this contact cannot be made through this phone call, they are transferred to territorial heads so that they can be located in some other way, either through primary care or through the hospital, since the problem can be derived from the existence of a wrong phone number. This weekend he also contacted 495 pending cases from the previous days, derived from the circumstances he was commenting on. And the average time each worker spends on these calls is eighteen minutes. In total, the Contact Monitoring Centre made 41,650 calls throughout this weekend. From the first week of July to the end of this month, the plant contacted a total of 27.245 positives, with 97,064 contacts, and made a total of 389,748 calls -- being the maximum daily on the 22 of July, with a total of about 30,000 calls --. In addition, in this July, a total of 95,000 PCRs have been requested -- I repeat -- since the Contact Monitoring Centre. These are figures that give us the dimension of the work done and of course we recognize that there may be dysfunctions, but that's why we put all the means to solve them. For this reason, the plant now has workers available to address the large number of incoming calls, precisely those people who could have an impact as a result of these initial problems, the result of such explosive growth of cases. This wave was characterized by growing much faster in cases, because each positive also generated a lot more contacts than the ones we had in previous waves. I also want to thank you for the work of the military on "Operation Baluarte" in Galicia -- since they are responsible for monitoring the close contacts of the infected -- who have also, of course, increased their personnel and who work in full coordination with the technicians of the General Public Health Directorate of the Health Council. With regard to the care situation in Galicia, I would like to highlight, firstly, the nearly 1.3 million consultations made in primary care -- in this case by primary care doctors -- or the 1.5 million consultations made by primary nursing professionals. I'm talking about July data: 1.3 million in doctors and 1.5 in nursing. Part of these consultations are made, of course, for the follow-up of the 18,468 positive foster patients who are going through the disease at their home, who, as you well know, have primary care doctors and nurses assigned to make the call for follow-up. By reviewing the circuit, we repeat that the positives are connected through the Contact Monitoring Centre -- which determines what their contacts are and asks the PCR -- and then they're followed by primary care. I repeat that these 18,468 citizens are followed by more than 1,800 primary care doctors -- and some fewer nurses -- for the evolution of the follow-up to the disease at home. As far as the hospital is concerned, today we have 261 people entering the plant -- let's remember that the peak of January was 1,210 cases -- and 42 people entering the critical units -- the maximum peak at that time out of 254 --. This is not a serious health care problem at the moment. Galicia is among the three autonomous communities with a lower percentage of cowardly occupation, both of acute beds and of critical beds. In fact, as we reported last week, the Greek hospitals are being able to develop the activity recovery plan and to reduce the average waiting times over last year. But that doesn't mean a problem for the system doesn't mean it can't be a problem for the patients. And let me insist that we now have in the critical units very young patients, aged 29, 30, 37 or 40. In these units, we also have a large majority of unvaccinated patients. Therefore, both epidemiological data and assistance data force us to make careful decisions, to be prudent and to act with care, as Galicia has been doing since the beginning of the pandemic. That's why we have to call prudence to the whole new population -- which is looking at how the time of your vaccine is coming -- so it can stretch your precautions and avoid getting infected before you can get that dose. Despite the fact that, as we said, the situation is that we are living in, we have put into operation the recovery plan of the care activity, which we have already realized part of its impact -- at least in this first half --. Right now we could observe a decrease of about forty days for diagnostic tests, more than thirty for surgical interventions and twenty-three for first consultations. The average operating time has been reduced by 30.6 days, from 100.8 days in June 2020 to 70.2 days in June this year. This average wait is below 2008, and the goal is to achieve the 2019 figures, which was the record year in decrease of this surgical delay. As far as the first consultations were concerned, the average structural waiting time of the first consultations of the disease came down in 23.7 days in June of this year for the same period of the previous year, which was 66.3, and remains at 42.6 this month. In early diagnostic tests, which is also important, it goes down in about forty days -- 39.8 -- from 112.3 days in June last 72.5 days this month. We also reduce time in all priorities: almost two days in priority 1 -- which is the lowest digit in the historical log --, twenty days in priority 2 and thirty-five days in priority 3. With regard to the seven quick routes, the average waiting time is 4.4 days -- 1.5 less than the same period of the previous year, which was expected 5.9 days -- and is below the 4.6 days reached in June 2017, the lowest expected historical record in this type of procedure. The rapid pathways allow the commitment to care for patients suspected of serious pathology within less than 15 days from the primary care physician's derivation to the specialist. Currently this procedure is implemented in all Sergas hospitals for breast cancer, colon, lung, prostate, bladder, otorrinolaryngology and melanoma. So we see how, in spite of the pandemic, we not only maintain activity, but we are able to lower patients' expectations on these fundamental issues, such as the first consultations and diagnostic tests, which are decisive, of course, to shorten a disease with the severity of cancer. And data shows that we continue to improve our commitment to reducing time in all priorities, highlighting priority 1 and rapid pathways, thus ensuring faster attention in those cases of more serious pathologies. To this ordinary care activity we also add important milestones to our health system, such as HIFU -- of what we've already talked about in this Parliament and that we've already been treated in the Hospital of Santiago 11 Greek citizens -- and the seven surgical robots Da Vinci, which started to operate in all health areas in mid-July -- specifically on July 22nd -- in which the Board invested 20.5 million euros and with which 33 Galicians were operated in the first few weeks. At first he's being used in urology patients, and he's going to be going to expand his implantation to other areas -- essentially gynecology, as well as otorrin or general surgery --. So not only did we improve -- it said -- the expectations at the care level, but, with the incorporation of these new technologies and more resources, we offer better quality care for our patients and better means for our professionals, from primary care to hospital care. As for the evolution of vaccination, Galicia is being as good as the availability of vaccines allows us. The Ministry's last report speaks of 99.3% of the vaccines received. So we manage all the vaccines we've received, but unfortunately they're not enough to count on the epidemiological availability we need, especially in the newer population. With the advance of this process, and thanks to the media used in Galicia, we already have more than 1,926,000 Greeks and Greeks in our community with a first dose, 78.5% of the population, and more than 71% -- 71.2% -- of the population is completely immunized. We are, moreover, the second autonomous community with the highest percentage of population over the age of 40 with the two doses administered; 93.9% of the Greeks over the age of 40 have the full standard. Now we want to keep moving forward in groups where the virus has the greatest incidence, so we've already started on Thursday, July 22, the vaccination of the age group from 29 to 20 years, in which we've already advanced considerably. But it's still not enough to be able to address as a whole the group with the highest incidence of the virus, which is now among teenagers, because they're also the largest number of interactions performed. That's why we launched autocisa, gradually with the doses not administered in the massive vaccination of older groups. So, initially we have 5,900 doses, 11,000 in the second autocite opening for under 19, and the forecast is that this week, from 2 to 8 August, we call 135,000 people, of which 93.104 will be the first doses for the age group 20 to 29 -- except those 11,000 that come from autocite to 16 to 19 -- and 5,900 for autocita of over 40. Those people who are out of the active campaign and who couldn't get vaccinated for some reason can also join in this autocy and do what we call the corresponding "restraint." At the moment, we have no record of the vaccines announced last weekend. Of course, as soon as we have the specific data, we will incorporate them in this case from the Directorate-General for Public Health, to accommodate the arrival of those vaccines to the Danish population that we are going to vaccinate. Regarding the situation in primary care, it is important to address the saturation of primary care at the moment. It is clear that we have lived a complex moment in relation to primary care, which we have always admitted since the Council, and that is why, to improve the situation of this care level, we have been working on the primary care plan since 2019. This pandemic wave we're living now coincides with the most complex period of human resources management, which is the summer months, since the health care staff vacations -- on the other hand, more than deserved -- combined with the lack of personnel available to carry out replacements, make family doctors see their work increased. I would like to point out that they, along with the nursing staff, follow up on their positive coupon patients and that in this case it is the military personnel who carry out the follow-up of close contacts. Within the framework of the plan of what we have already talked about, we have created the Technical Council for Primary Care, which is a professional part of this field, and under it work committees are convened that aim to define where we want to move forward to solve structural problems. As you know -- and you've already put forward the Directorate-General for Health Planning and Reform in this Parliament, which has come to your own request -- the committees have finished their work in June, and in the implementation of your conclusions we're putting all our efforts on. The primary situation is not something that finds out about the opposition, because, as you know, even if you don't want to admit it, it's something about what we've been working on, but about what, of course, there's a lot left to do. We increase the staff as much as we can, making the greatest effort in the OPs, precisely in the field of primary care. In addition, the plan envisages hiring professionals since 2019, 125 new squares, which could be more, but 19 were not covered. Over the year 2021, we have 161 new breeding grounds, 39 of which are family doctors, 10 of pediatricians, 2 of pharmacies, 67 of nursing -- in this case family and community -- 21 of physiotherapy, 13 of midwives and 9 of social work. We're not going to demagogy the lack of staff in the centers. The reality is that there are no doctors on the recruitment list, nor are there any nurses. And with that situation, we have to face the future, even though we will continue to demand, as you know, the call of an MIR endowed with more squares or an extraordinary summons to be able to form more professional. While this does not happen, we want the implementation of local health plans, the resolution of competences, multidisciplinary work, the deburocratization and the integration of new categories will undoubtedly improve the situation of primary and their professionals. Today, of course, I want to thank and acknowledge that enormous effort, because, as I said at the beginning, in the summer months, many take on the shares of their fellows in order to enjoy those well-deserved vacations, but this year they also added to the follow-up of positive cases of coronavirus. Despite the situation, around 80% of primary care coupons in Galicia are offering appointments in less than four days, and presence has increased by 12 points from May to now. We know that the situation is difficult, and that's why we meet again tomorrow with the Technical Council of Primary Care, with the objective, in this case, of moving forward in something we have already announced, which is to be able to equip the nursing staff and also primary pharmacists with more capacities to free the optionals of some of these functions. He also said before we introduced these weeks the possibility that people who had given a positive test of antigens in his home could call the Contact Monitoring Centre directly and that he had asked for a confirmation PCR test, without needing to go back to the health center again. Or also in the case of pharmacy tests carried out in front of the pharmacist, where this communication of the positive case is transferred directly to the information systems of the Health Council. This way you automatically generate the warning to ask for the PCR test again, without the need for these positives detected through self-tests in the pharmacy to go to the health center. And of course, it's also the already commented measure of having these antigen points available in these fourteen locations, which also facilitate case detection. In these cases, when antigen at the mobile point is positive, you already take the PCR, the citizen is derived from your home, you don't have to ask for a second PCR, and this information is again automatically transferred to the information system, so the family doctor only has to make that follow-up call, in case it's positive, and fortunately you don't have to be hospitalized. With regard to the situation of hospitals, this year, as historically every year, a reduction in working beds was carried out, which were not closed, according to estimates made over the same periods of previous years, in which, like this one, the total number of operational beds have never been used. In this sense, I would like to reiterate that this is not a new exclusive measure of Galicia, of course, or of this government, since it is being done throughout all summer periods throughout Spain. In any case, if necessary, beds can be expanded, although until now, as I said, the percentage of occupation was always lower than the available beds, reflecting good planning and a good study of the reality of each health area. So, we've had complicated moments, we're far from that saturation -- and above all from the collapse of what you're talking about -- we have more resources, we have less surgical expectations in consultation and testing, we improve the presence of primary care and we work towards solutions on the health level, called being the axis of our entire health system. With regard to the strictly related pandemic, we continue to take accurate and adjusted measures to the Greek reality, taking the initiative in matters such as the functioning of the vaccination certificate and making it available to the Galicians of diagnostic tests with innovative systems, with which Galicia becomes a pioneer again. We continue to advance in vaccination -- as far as we can -- in groups where the virus is having a greater impact. It seems that all of this is beginning to give us the first results, and we can start to see how the accumulated incidence of seven begins to descend, as it was mentioned at the beginning of my intervention, despite the fact that Galicia, as it came to occur, began to notice the effects of this so-called "fifth wave" in the rest of Spain, with delay in relation to the rest of the state, which encourages us to continue working; yes, with caution in this new wave. And I end by showing that decrease in the cumulative incidence curve, in this case, the fourteen days. [[Mr. Health Counsellor, Garcia Comesaña, displays a chart.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u27	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u28	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. The spokesperson of the People's Party said last Friday, in the Permanent Parliament requested by the BNG to request his presence here in this plenary, who voted in favour to see if, after his intervention, we were able to recognize that the functioning of the public health system was being exemplary. And I have to tell him -- that he's not the spokesman, but I tell you -- that he hasn't convinced us. Unfortunately, you have again done a repetition of previous interventions today, without making a true analysis of what the reality is. And I also have to tell him frankly that in his speech self-comprehensibility, self-excusation and lack of solutions. So of course I have to tell you. You said that, indeed, the situation we are in today is not that of a year ago, and I will agree with you. It's precisely not the situation of a year ago, where the ignorance of many things was very important, but again in this fifth pandemic or fifth wave -- you call it as you wish -- they went wrong again, they rushed into the escalation and they didn't at least apply the principle of caution. Actually, we're not in the same situation a year ago, and the serious thing is that they had the information about the elements to predict and predict the magnitude of this fifth wave, but they didn't take them into account, because at this time, Counsellor, you already knew that the variant delta of the virus, predominant at this time, is much more contagious and resistant, that it was more, faster, and that it was kept longer. They also knew that in summer they would increase social interactions and mobility. They also knew that the level of diane vaccination vaccination vaccinated at the beginning of the escalation was too far from 80% or 90% -- that now all experts indicate that this is what needs to be achieved by the characteristics of the prevailing variant in Galicia, which, according to reports, is already about 80% the predominant variant -- They also knew that the level of vaccine effectiveness is not 100% and that even if a person is vaccinated, that does not exempt him from infection and infection. They also knew that the most efficient way to fight against coronovirus is to have an efficient tracking system, to locate contacts, to isolate positive people and their contacts and to track and isolate positive people and their contacts. And they also knew that their primary care is low, with staff paintings reduced to minimal expression. They knew all this, and, despite knowing it, they didn't act accordingly. You knew it and you knew it all about the Greeks and the Greeks. They knew that the virus had to act with prevention and not by reaction, and, despite the previous one, they again acted by reaction, lending everything to the lucky factor, and they went back behind the virus. Because, look at one thing, Mr. Counselor, they have a practically disarticulated tracking system. Sixteen months after the pandemic, they do not have an efficient, effective tracking system, but rather, what exists is decoordination, confusion in control and follow-up of positives, in isolations and quarantines. They have a system based on precariousness, the stability of the low prices of the company that was carrying it, and everything indicates that the young man who will assist them goes the same way. And I, of course, have to tell you, which responsible government does something like this when it is known that the most efficient way to control the epidemic is to have an efficient tracking system? How can they have it in these conditions? You said here today a whole series of questions about the good that the tracking system works, which they call in a maximum time of 24 hours... I'm going to refer to what the press says about it: "No trace of Welsh trackers" -- that says a means of communication, without any vision of having a convicence or being in favour of the Welsh Government-- [[Mrs. Prado Colors reads news]] I'm going to read what people say that they've been positive. Hugo says, for example, "I called, I called, I called, and nobody took me. I called up to 60 times. I didn't get a message informing myself that I was infected, even today, and I don't know how many days later." I can tell you what Paul says: "Sixth day confined at home, six waiting for the call of the head doctor. No one's following me. They call me for the vaccine, when I know I can't do it. When are you gonna make me another PCR? The management of Sergas is null." Fatima shows her total indignation at the treatment she received, because she started having a fever, she called, they made her a PCR a week later, and no one gave her the result yet. If you want, I can go on, but this is the reality that thousands of Galicians live every day. This isn't the "Galize of the Wonderland" that you described here, Counselor, that of a system that works, when it isn't. There are positive people who spend days without anyone calling them, as you've just seen, and they're told they're quarantined to people and others, in the same circumstances, aren't told. There are people desperate to contact Sergas, trackers or someone who tells them what to do. That's really the reality. And you've again spoken here today from the start of a telephone to attend to the people who do self-test in their homes, so they can comply with the PCR. You've said again that it's an axile system, of citation, to avoid saturation and workload in health care. And what's the reality, Counselor? The reality is, there's an automatic answering machine that's continually saying, "Try it later. Our lines are constantly busy." That's the reality of the announcements you make all the time. You announce, and reality goes on the other side; nothing to do with what you described. That's why I have to tell you that we expect a tracking system to be put in place with sufficient trained staff, instead of the situation they are in, and that primary professionals are not loaded with that work. The second question I would like to ask you, Counsellor, is that if the delta variant of the virus is currently prevalent at 80 %, is much more contagious and resistant, why have they lowered the level of demand for isolation protocols and quarantine protocols? I haven't just understood, because if this is so, do you think at this point, with this variant, the protocol of being in touch with a positive fifteen minutes, at a distance less than two meters, is still being efficient? Don't you think they should have checked the protocols and increased these precautions instead of downloading them? I'm telling you, they dropped them because you just put a face of astonishment... and if you tell people that nothing happens, they're still making normal life, and besides, they can't get them down is because they've dropped the protocols, because they've lowered the level of demand when they do those quarantines. And I'm not saying anything new; the president himself said that the Delta variant of the virus is much more contagious and transmitted in seconds. So, according to that, I had to take action according to this reality, and you didn't take them. Next question, primary care. You said here you're not going to demagogy with the situation of primary care, but demagogy is to deny the reality that was happening. Primary care is totally depleted and saturated, there is no health center with the number of professionals that would be needed. Those who have no time or capacity, and they take work forward as they can. They've been -- we've been telling them for months -- that the situation in which they have public health, especially primary care, is jeopardizing the physical and mental health of professionals and the population. We told them it was impossible to meet the increase in demand on vacations, on the people who arrived, on the increase in contagions... and you systematically denied this situation. We told him insistently, the unions told him, the professionals told him, he told the people, and he told them every day the population in the media and social networks. Now the College of Doctors in Pontevedra has joined, who have filed a criminal complaint so that someone can assume the responsibilities of the workload they have and the inability to meet the population in condition. And what's the situation? The increase in the care pressure, which they don't give attention to: unattended patients who attend them every day to a different person -- assuming they're being cared for by someone -- personnel exhausted in tourist resorts, with the increase in the summer population, which is no longer being reinforced, but having places where they are being treated under minimum conditions... Do you think, for example, in Baltar, with three doctors, they can do ten jobs? Or do you think, for example, in Seixo -- where did you say here that there would be no cuts -- now four hours ago a professional to attend two coupons? Or in Cambados, five professionals to meet the ten's coupon? Do you think that under these conditions you can give minimal quality attention to the people of Galicia? Do you really believe that? And, by the way, speaking of Sanxenxo, will I require correction from the mayor of Sanxenxo for bringing in the work of the professionals? We asked the People's Party and we got the silence in response. We'd like you to say in the next intervention if you're going to ask the mayor of Sanxenxo for correction. Consequences: it transfers the care pressure to the emergency services and the CAP, which are already in a situation of saturation; ambulance services are saturated, as in the Vigo area, that there is a brutal shortage of ambulances, which makes there are delays of hours or fatal outcomes, as was the case in Cangas, where the professional team had to go by taxi to attend a girl who fell in the pool because there was no ambulance -- a girl who died last Thursday-- There are repeated situations that we have already lived in our country, for lack of means, Counselor. What will you do to strengthen health care, and in particular primary care, Counsellor? And I would also like you to explain why Sergas activated that autocite for children under 16 to 19 on July 21, when all the data say that the incidence is higher in 20 to 29. You just repeated the data here, and the incidence is higher between 20 and 29. And they did it without prior communication, without having the same equal opportunities who didn't know who knew who knew...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u30	Don't you think that deserves an explanation from the counsellor? So at this point, there is no one left to tell them that things are not doing them well, Counselor: media that are echoing situations like the ones I just said; citizenship, which makes public that permanent neglect; professional; trade unions; and now also the Medical College of Pontevedra. I'd like you to come out and answer the questions I asked you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u32	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. I'll start with a congratulations and a good news, which is always good. In parliamentary life there's a congratulations to you, who finally understood that they had to change something from the Health Act so they could get out of the way. It's well changed, because even the story confuses a lot, but they had to change the law, which is not wrong to remember, as some of us said here. And there's a good news, and it's that, as opposition, we're not the PP, which is also a good news. I remind you that since this difficult situation began, we assume that this is complicated, very complicated. To govern this situation is very difficult, and we understand the circumstances, we understand what can be, at some point, mistakes, always well-intentioned, because managing a pandemic is unusual and therefore needs everyone to be understanding. They're lucky for autonomous governments and governments all over Europe, who don't have the opposition PP, because we've seen what the opposition PP is here, in Spain, which is probably the most regrettable political thing we've seen in many years all over Europe, but the truth is, fortunately, you don't have that opposition PP here, and we're understanding. Of course, we have some discrepancies in our personal plan, and we've even commented on them many times, but we think it's important to support the Government. It's true that some things call attention a little, like the virus up until now didn't know about borders or people, and now it looks like yes. Everyone is infected, except in Sanxenxo; in Sanxenxo, there are no infections. So, with the most fired incidences, it took fifteen days to take minimally restrictive measures, as in other places that had half the incidence. [[Applause]] But saving that, the rest, in principle, is understandable. But, as I tell you, we understand the circumstances, and we believe that vaccination is a collective success, also in this council -- of course this advisor -- It's a collective success, mainly from professionals, but also from those who handled it. In that I support the management of the Council, despite some discrepancies, surely, but I support the management of the Council; Mr Feijóo, no, who says vaccination goes wrong, because from the beginning it seems to bother him that vaccination is going well. You know he said he would come in April -- he arrived in December -- he said we wouldn't have enough vaccines -- they're coming -- he said 70 percent, in August, that Pedro Sánchez said very badly -- that he wasn't the only one who said so, you said it, but at last we're leaving him there, nothing happens -- and there's 70 percent, and now he says we can't celebrate anything. And it's true, while the situation is bad, we can't celebrate anything, but we're the second country in the world that most vaccines in absolute terms. Vaccination goes well, it's a collective success and therefore in that part where Sergas also has a lot to do, we congratulate all the professionals, people who are going to vaccinate themselves and the systems because, with the complexity it contains and without reaching the numbers -- that some people have announced, as if this was a career to advertise a lot -- if they're doing things properly, and it's coming. As I say, we're not the PP. Remember that here was even discussed about what the big problem was that Pedro Sánchez didn't wear a black tie in memory of the deceased -- here, in this gallery -- finally, each debate to the extent it gives him, but we actually share that. We believe that the problem is structural, not circumstantial. Nobody's to blame for this pandemic, and it doesn't fit anyone's head -- because it's not like that -- whether it's the political party it is, that no one manages this pandemic with the desire to do it wrong. Everyone does it as best they know, and luckily, in general terms, the levels of management of health systems -- with ideological discrepancies too, and with model discrepancies -- are very high levels. So we understand that circumstances are faced with difficulty, but it's a structural issue. Today I understood that we would speak much more of structure than of circumstance. Why? Because the problem we have is basically structural. It has to do with basically -- and there's the origin of the appearance, which you talked about a lot of things, and we don't have time, but I'm going to go to what the appearance says -- with, basically, the tracking system and primary care, because there's probably a lot of the explanation there. Look, Counselor, I'm going to calculate wrong, but about eight months ago probably here our group -- I had the opportunity to do so in the name of our group -- I was thinking about the situation of the trackers, because there were defect in the trackers, there were problems with the trackers, because there weren't enough. I then moved a question which from time to time knows that I repeat systematically, but to which no one gives an answer. I'm going to ask it again, because we might understand that it's important: what's the number of trackers in Sergas? Mr. Feijóo said that 6,147 -- I think it was that data -- and you said, just the following week, that 700. A week later he said he didn't know very well to define that he was a tracker. Maybe it's time to fine-tune what it is and hire them, because if we don't, we're looking at foreign companies that are supposed to be tracking contacts, but what happens next... I wonder if there's anyone here who had to call the contact phone to talk to the trackers. If there's someone here who did it -- and we don't need to get into a conversation right now like it was a teacher question, it's not that -- you know they didn't answer the first one. It's not the fault of those who are, because those who are quite do, it's the fault that this system from Sergas is not working well because, in fact, there was no intention that it would work. They probably know they didn't take the second, and they probably know someone they didn't catch the third, or the fourth. And they probably know -- sure, sure, because everyone we're here with has come up with more than one person who told them there's someone waiting for them to call them -- someone they called 23 days later or someone they didn't give back a PCR result. These are questions that are understandable, if they were punctual, because it is a large, complex system, but this is the system. The anecdote of this system is that it works well, the anecdote. Why? Because it's not possible to sustain such a complex system, a network of control and tracking as difficult as it is with professionals who are sometimes yes, sometimes not, in disorderly shifts, who are charging bad and little, that, besides, are very few and about which no one wants to explain something as simple as saying how many trackers there are in Sergas. Because this is a question that, maybe it has another complexity, but from our point of view, it wouldn't have to be hard to answer. It's a date we've been waiting for; it's the time, at last, to say it. On primary care, which is a structural issue, this is not the first time we have discussed this. Look, you said some things here, but we understand that we have to build an account, because you're in the construction of the account, but you said, for example, something, like it's risen twelve points the presence from May. When was he May? Because climbing twelve points is a good data, but you have to know where. And if possible, they offer some data to validate it, because they say we met 40 % last December, but the hundreds of professionals who complain must be those on the top of the average. And you advance that we will be at 60 percent this December. Little ambition!, from our point of view, but, if it's the one that's marked, it's the one that's marked. Actually, data has to be validated in some way. So let's be sensible. And about the staff situation, I share with you, Counselor, that there's no need to demagogy, what happens is that yesterday I saw some news from the press that some members of the People's Party were talking about and I said, "Come on, let's have a rappowder who's putting the councilman here." But, well, I share with you; I don't know how you will manage with them later. Look, about primary care personnel, we have 1,000 professionals less since 2009 -- budgeting, we're not inventing anything -- 150 MIR squares in the Community Family -- that this government could ask for and hasn't asked, since 2009, accumulated -- empty, all that could be requested. The government has decided to ask for less, perhaps they didn't expect people to retire. I'm going to tell you a secret I told the former advisor: doctors and doctors are also one year old every year, and we know easily when they're going to retire. The 20% of the MIRs that end in Galicia end up being stable professionals of the system, and the other 80%, no, repeat the MIR, go to other communities, change their specialty, not to make the Community Family, because there's... why? because we are Spain's second worst autonomous community in wage conditions, but we are also Spain's third worst nurse ratio per inhabitant has; we are below the Spanish average in matrons per inhabitant; we have, in addition, less than 90% of primary care covered by pediatricians in pediatrics squares... and often assumed, but Castile-Leon, Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country, Navarra, Rioxa... all are above 95%. So we have a staff deficit system. And it's true that it's a problematic system throughout Spain, but it's that, compared with us, we have a lot worse because the human resources conditions offered are regrettable. And now you invent, first, that you have to make an extraordinary MIR, as if the extraordinary MIR was the fault of the state, but that there are many MIR squares you give it as a merit of your own. Let's tell the real things. During the years of the Rajoy Government, with Mr. Feijóo ruling in Galicia, was one year asked for the increase in MIR squares? No, no, no, no. So, has it been granted? No, no, no, no. The increase in the MIR squares arrived in 2018, in the call for 2019, with the Government of Pedro Sánchez. The three largest MIRs in history for Galicia, in the last three years, that we have to say as well. But you're now asking for an extraordinary MIR for primary. And the question is, who's going to form them? Because you guys have a problem with current tutors. Why? Because they demand more time, because they say they don't have the conditions, they're not well paid; but they just don't have the ability to form. And we're going to ask for an extraordinary MIR? And who's going to form them? Ah! is that the question is that everything that doctors and primary doctors already have -- that shouldn't be a little -- yet we're going to get it out with an extraordinary MIR. Let's see if we're able not to blame everyone and assume some responsibility. The human resources policy of this council has been cicadare and regrettable for years, and that's the problem they're going through. Of course, we have to work together to have more professionals, especially in the Community Family. Yes, but we also have a community that expels professionals. Then we never stopped being unable to hire them. Why? Because, look, I'm going to appeal to American politics... It's not American politics that I admire very much, but I set Joe Biden's example of waitresses. He said they said in the United States that there were no waitresses, and he said, "Pay them more." I'm not telling you to pay them any more, but to treat healthcare professionals better; treat us better and they're going to stay, that's the problem. Tracking and primary care are structural issues, especially today, and these are the issues that are focusing on the axis of the first shock against the pandemic; let's say they are the ones on the brake wall first, the whole system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u34	But we think that's where we have to spend a lot of effort, which has to do with attention to professionals. They answered, as you know, fantastically. But they responded despite the circumstances and despite the management of the last ten years, which is probably quite improved. Let's leave him there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u35	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u36	Counselor, thank you very much for your appearance, the fourth of the year. We know and we record that all of his time he devotes him fully to this complicated task of health management in these difficult times of pandemic. We congratulate him in advance for his successful efforts, and he knows that most of the Greeks are grateful for his constant efforts and attention. Right now, in the afternoon, like every Tuesday, you have a meeting with the Clinical Committee. Tomorrow I imagine he'll appear in front of the media, as he does every week. But in spite of all this information that frequently gives, some opposition group wanted you to talk about health right now in the middle of August. And frankly, counselor, if you're going to talk about health, the People's Group, and I think most of the Greeks, we'd rather hear it than hear what the opposition has to say, because the opposition has heard a lot of things and we see that they come back with the same speech again. Let's remember here, talking about vaccines, what Mr. Knight said, when he said we had thousands of vaccines in the fridge. What we've found is that for months now Galicia has always been among the best communities as a percentage of vaccines administered on vaccines delivered. They told us that 99.3 of the vaccines received are administered. They also said we were slow in the process because we had to hire more staff to put up all the vaccines that were coming, and the reality is that we have the staff waiting sometimes for days that those vaccines so expected to be able to put them in. We all heard the President of the Government a few days ago, the day of the delivery of the medals, when, precisely, he congratulated our community for the rate of vaccination at that time, the second best after the neighbouring community, Asturias. We heard Mrs. Pontón say here that "the mass vaccination centers generated agglomerations, endless queues and even health risks," statements that were not only deeply irresponsible, but that were also completely wrong. BNG also argued in February that the only way to deal with the wave we had then was another confinement. Luckily for citizenship and for many Greek families who were going through it frankly, the BNG is in the opposition, and the Greek Government didn't fall into that mistake. And all those things that the citizenry has heard and in which the opposition continues to err because it doesn't believe them anymore; nothing new, nothing new, as it usually happens, by the way. The Greeks trusted the Government, trusted President Feijóo and you, and today we lead the process. We're always among the first autonomous communities as a percentage of vaccinated populations -- so we've been listening to you for a while -- and we seem to be getting out little by little and with a lot of caution -- as we also heard you -- of this last wave of pandemics without compromising at any time the assistance capacity of our Greek hospitals -- we're the third autonomous community with better management in this field. What's left of the opposition now? Well, to insist on more stubborn, on the usual themes: in primary care, today they haven't talked about closing summer beds -- for now -- and in the tracking system. This last part-session was closed on 25 July, speaking of primary care in the 5th Commission on Health -- by the way, the only point was, the Government's initiative, an appearance to speak, precisely, of such necessary reforms in primary care -- There we heard the Director General of Health Planning and Reform -- at least whoever wanted to hear it -- it seems that these things haven't been transmitted -- And we listened to Mrs. Pontón this morning, right here, saying that nothing is being done. There it was explained how Sergas is going to primary centers to talk to professionals, discuss proposals and design with many of them pilot experiences; pilot experiences in agenda management, overdemand management and redistribution of functions. Of course, these lines of work that transmitted us on 15 did not change primary care today, August 3, actually, are lines of development that have already begun at the end of 2019 and were interrupted because of the pandemic. And it's coming back with interest both from the Government -- which has created this new general direction -- and from most of the groups that are part of primary care. We hear you this morning that you have another meeting of the Primary Technical Council to continue implementing these new measures, and this is not going to stop. But now that this primary reform is running, that dialogue is flowing, it seems that some people are interested in interrupting. There seems to be some who are not comfortable with this prospect of reform, and much less so that this reform can be led by the Group of the People's Party. And they're going to try to boycott it, counselor, by all means, but they won't, because we do trust primary care staff, if we know they're willing to work better, to do things in a way that looks at a committed government that has that goal. This will help him, as much as some want to stop him. Indeed, primary care right now is in a complicated situation, we've known it for a long time, and we know that there are difficulties in several fields. We never denied it, nor forgot it, but the Government knew how to detect them, and every day it works on it, on detecting and solving, dialogue and working on the ground. And this complicated situation not only happens in Galicia, it is similar in the rest of the communities and even in Europe. We have the fatal coincidence, in addition, of an epidemiological wave at a time when we have a lot of staff taking their very worthy vacations and after a very tense year and we have on the system all available medical and nursing staff and all available residents. Since this legislation began, Junta has approved two public job offers, more than 2,000 places. Why aren't they approved anymore? So that's what we've been discussing here many times: because there's a government in Spain who promised to eliminate the replenishment rate, and that's not done. I insist on the argument, we have a government in Spain, a government of the Socialist Party, supported by the Galego Nationalist Block, which promised to eliminate the replenishment rate, but we're still waiting, in "we'll see." Also in recent years, two offers of specialized health training were approved, more than 1,000 squares. And in the face of the lack of students, the question is simple: why don't we have more family medicine or pediatrics in Spain? Because there's a government that no longer creates squares and refuses to convene extraordinary squares. But, ladies and gentlemen, we saw this news last afternoon. While Galicia and the rest of communities are denied these MIR squares, the Government says: "Spain and Catalonia will negotiate the transfer of the MIR management in October." [[Mrs. Amigo Díaz shows news.]] One MIR system... yes, Illa denied it, but, look, in a neighbouring town of my county, they say, "What they say in the evening, in the morning is nothing." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And this is also what happens to the government we have, to the national government. [[Applause]] This is awesome! We have two things to assume: one the national transplant system and another the MIR. The national transplant system has tried to boycott it, and now it looks like they're also trying to do it with the MIR; two managements that are fair, and they're fair because they're, precisely, national, and that's something that we all have to do with the whole nation. Look, for this obvious problem of primary care staff, I repeat again: replenishment rate and increase of MIR squares. But the opposition continues to close its eyes to the reality of this structural problem and to say that the Galician Union is the only one responsible. They say it's a money problem. If it was a money problem, it would be settled, let's repeat it on several occasions. Today, Junta spends 94 million more in the current budget to the primary care staff chapter; 94 million more than in the last one to present the Bipartite. The PSOE looks at the Asturian model. Well, look, in Asturias, there are headlines -- bring here many headlines, for I too-- [[Mrs. Amigo Díaz reads press headlines.]] This is the model of the PSOE: "The primary physicians double guards and reach up to 16 patients per hour." The PSOE system, where you say: a primary manager and a hospital manager. This is happening here. The Nationalist Bloc looks at the Catalan model, and says in Catalonia: "Take the risk of health care holidays in Catalonia". Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, explain to you what your model is and explain it to this staff, who is tired of working often. I'm done. Mr. Torrado, in the second time I'll explain to you the health law, which was there too. They fought, yes! On the subject of tracking, because we all know that "for the purpose of a case" that always brings us here, and of course we regret all those cases, but there are less and less, because the Government reacted and listened to the counselor. It wasn't easy to adapt a system that was dimensioned to meet the contacts of the 2,000 positives that were on July 1st and the more than 10,000 positives that were fifteen days later. We're living a tremendously expansive wave and this, fortunately, has been corrected since the government. Finally, Counsellor, congratulations for putting the tone in this silly festival where the opposition wants to turn the debate about management into something as serious as a pandemic. From the People's Group, we believe that we are in good hands, that people know, and that's why we vote in favour when the Galician Nationalist Block called for the presence in this plenary. Because the more I listen to you, the more you listen to citizenship -- with that call that makes to prudence and sentient -- the more you will have citizenship in a government that has been at the foot of the cannon all these months, so hard, and that you will continue to be facing the challenges that come. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u37	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u38	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. You say, specifically Mrs. Prado, that we've seen here repeat autobomb data. It's just, look, reality is tough. I understand that yes, that they can bother you with the data we are transmitting, as Galicia is one of the communities that most diagnostic evidence does throughout the state, that it has the lowest rate of occupation of ICUs or hospitalization, which has innovated in many systems... I understand that this doesn't like you, Mrs Prado, but it's a reality. Then you can say that there's self-comprehensibility, that we don't solve anything... Of course, I remember that in the worst moments of the pandemic there was a video that spoke of the "captain to the rear," which came in and said as if it had to do everything. You were here today a "afterhead," that's right, without saying what we had to do in no way. Just as you're telling me that in my turn I'm critical of who I don't know, I'm going to ask you to tell us what we should have done next. [[Applause]] When we were at the time when the cumulative incidence in Galicia and Spain was at those good times, when the Government of Spain decided to remove the mascarillas abroad, what should we have done in Galicia? You tell me, because we had to do this, this and this. Look, here's a lesson from the Delta variant. The Delta variant in Galicia was known before anywhere in Spain; specifically, in April we detected the first case of Delta variant: 19 cases in the port of Vigo, with car merchants. Well, did something happen to the Delta variant in Galicia at that time? Didn't he count? A very important effort has been made -- and a very important sequencing effort is being made. Galicia -- unfortunately for you, so it turns out -- is systematically the first community that detects variants: South African, Brazilian and also Delta, at its time known as India. Of course we know the difficulty you have, and of course we are moving into all the organs where we have voice and vote the need to adjust the protocol. But, look, protocols currently aren't Greek, they're national, because, besides, I can't give an IT person 15 days or 20 days, when in another community it's defined as 14 days. It is true that everyone knows the virulence of the Delta variant -- all over the world, eh!, Mrs. Prado, all over the world -- and everyone knows and speaks of that virulence, but nobody -- not even Catalans, of course -- decided to take a step to modify the strict contact criterion. What would have happened if we changed that criterion in Galicia? What we should hear from you! In Galicia we apply the strict contact criterion, which is exactly the same as the Interterritorial Council, the Committee on Public Health and the Alerts. And yes, for now, it's defined that a close contact is that person who is less than 2 meters away, more than 15 minutes away and without masks. That's the criterion used by the Greek trackers, the trackers from all over Spain, and I think that's for the rest of the world. There are doubts, indeed, if they have to be 15 minutes, 10 or 12. At the moment that decision is taken, Galicia will be the first to adopt it, as it has always done, but for the time being we will follow the international criteria, in particular Spain. I repeat, I don't know what measures you would have taken in the middle of June. So it's a disgrace, yes, the pandemic comes this way, and we actually met in July with an uncontrolled increase of cases -- out of control by contacts -- What did the Greek public system do? Then put all the measures in his hand. First, scale the tracking system. You talked a lot about the tracking system here. Well, I just gave some data that I think are demolitional, and I also took the trouble of looking for them and bringing them here to this House at an appearance you asked for. Why do you ask for an appearance if you bring the data and then you come in through your ear and get it out of your ear? Well, I'll repeat it again, Mrs. Prado. From the first week of July to the end of this month, 27,254 calls to positive. If you do the bill, we're talking about -- let's say -- 1,000 cases daily all July, which would be 30,000. Well, there were 27,000 calls. 97,064 contacts, 389,748 calls at the Galician Contact Monitoring Centre -- not in Catalonia, which, of course, in Catalonia, what they say is that they are pointed on a page and that they are self-tracked. Thirty thousand calls, I repeat, July 22nd maximum, and 95,000 PCRs requested by the power station. What data don't you like about this, Mrs. Prado? What do you think? Am I lying? Tell me I'm lying. If you want, we can do an audit and I'll give them in writing and believe them. What you can't do is ask for data, and when the data doesn't convince me, say, you don't count anything. Yeah, I've told a lot about what's going on at the station. I also said that size mistakes were made, and, look, Mrs. Prado, at the beginning of the month, there were 130 positives a day -- that seemed to us many, but 130-- but in less than a week we spent at 1,500 days. Well, actually, we weren't able to scale it quickly. That's right, with the public system that you've been hiding there and that surely is the solution to the bad Greeks, that could be done immediately. No, we did everything we could to meet that demand. There's a new element -- well, I'm telling you, what happens is that I just didn't want to listen to it -- in this situation, apart from the contacts that the younger people have, apart from the interactions... I have a 17-year-old boy and I know perfectly what I'm talking about, and I guess some of you too. It's very difficult to control the interaction of younger people. Well, in that context, measures were taken to try to listen to her, and the solution was not to put them in the houses, as someone suggested: all of them from 12 to the top, put in the house. That's impossible to do, and what we'd hear if we just suggested it! Well, I'm saying that steps have been taken to try and adapt to the situation. Measure 1: When a person goes to a pharmacy and takes a test... by the way, I'm going to take advantage of it to say that tests at the pharmacy have been available for at least six months. The German Government denied that these tests could be sold without medical prescription, and refused to be active and passive. Why? Because we thought it was going to lead to a tremendous increase in primary care consultations to ask for tests. Those tests were not approved until July 22nd, as I said. And once they were approved, it happened what we could expect many, which generated an increase in primary care, because people do the test, with a result that we must always confirm with PCR, as I said before. Well, they generated a -- logical alarm, on the other hand -- Well, precisely to avoid that alarm, I was saying that we put the first weekend -- the weekend after the 22nd -- a system -- which is a call, of course, because the central doesn't know who bought a test and did it at home -- with which, when someone does a test at home and gives you positive, calling on the phone, if you could declare that positive at home, to which a PCR was asked without having to go to primary care. You talk about that, of course!, they called a centralite, and have to wait...! Man, I almost feel like calling the Galego Nationalist Block secretariat and seeing if you take me to the first person or a centralite enters me! It's just to complain that there's a centralite! Look, I tried these days to call that power station first person, and there were days when I had to wait five tons, one day I waited two tons and another day I waited six. [[Murmurs.]] Well... I don't know what the problem is. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm just testing the things that are going on, and I have to say that the centrality of the Contact Monitoring Centre works. Sometimes we have to wait longer. If I call at 12 noon, I'll wait longer and if I call at 8 in the morning, I'll wait less. But anyway, I repeat and I give you the data again: 380,000 calls. Well... What we did, as I say, was adapted, because this is a flexible system. Mr. Torrado, I don't want to go back... I, the first interventions, the number of trackers... we say many times that the tracking system -- and I'm going to repeat it; you ask me and now you're going to have to stand-- is distributed among telephone operators, primary care doctors, primary care nurses, territorial staff -- that do an exceptional job, of which, by the way, nobody talks; nobody talks about the people of the provincial management, which is the one that actually makes the traceability of cases and which in many cases allows us to make very important decisions in the clinical committees we have every week-- well, because all these people worked around these weeks, and the main nucleus, which is getting calls -- that will match with me that there is no need for any doctor or nurse -- it will be dimensioning according to the needs. [[Murmurs.]] And, as I just said a moment ago, 250 additional people were added to the one to make that call management. So, I think with the difficulties of that explosive growth -- I repeat -- 130 -- you see how it's going to be in Galicia -- and they also observe, because we're talking about it here -- in June or maybe a little earlier, we're beginning to do the back-up. We said, as we had the ability to trace, we were going to track, but not two or five days ago, but we got to seven days ago. That ability we had, but when we started to have this increase in cases, of course we stopped doing backtracking, and not only that, but we were adding more and more personal in order to be able to shorten that system. You said, Mrs. Prado, we changed the protocol. I really don't know what protocol he's talking about. I told him we kept talking about the same conditions to declare close contact, the same quarantine time and the same criteria for PCR. The only difference -- and, perhaps, it refers to that -- is that when close contact is a negative PCR vaccinated, the Ministry of Health and Autonomous Communities have established a protocol so they don't have to do the isolation, except that they are people who manage immunodepressed, for example, in hospitals. We are strictly following that protocol, Mrs Prado, we do not relax any criteria, no criteria! Then you talk about primary care. Well, actually, a lot of effort was made starting from a complicated situation -- I was telling you earlier -- We've been touched by this wave that we currently have -- and let me call it the fourth, because in Galicia it wasn't the fifth, I insist again on this -- and this current wave coincided with us in the period, probably more complicated, because it's about the vacations of primary care professionals, which is from July 15 to August 15. We agreed in that situation, and like every year, primary care doctors cover each other, which we never fail to thank -- that's right -- but we, when we plan staff vacations, if we have the option to hire them, we hire them, to strengthen them, but we have a fundamental criterion -- of what no one here has talked about, on the other hand -- which is the attention of the CAP. Our main criterion for using the resources that we have available for vacation coverage is the continuing attention points. It's the first thing we cover, and when after covering the continuing points of attention we have some optional left, we cover a long IT, a situation in a health center where several people are absent and not on vacation... that's what we do. We've been doing this for many years, because we manage with the resources we have right now in primary care. I'm not going to come in here to discuss the reasons why there's no professionals in primary care. I think professionals, precisely, have known them for a long time; it's a subject that is very much debated, but I'm going to comment on a couple of things about what was said here. On the one hand, a very high percentage of primary care professionals in Galicia are left in Galicia, we estimate that around 80 percent. Yes, they stay in Galicia, but not only in primary care, but in emergency services, 061, in the CAP itself, of course... there's a percentage that leaves, most of the places where they come from, because for now, while the Catalan Government can't get anything else, the MIR system is national and, then, here, they come to form shudders, some Catalan even... and, when they're done, sometimes they want to go back to their land. But most, as I say, stay in Galicia. And why don't they stay in primary care? Well, for example, because there's a service like the hospital emergency that makes a clear difference in equality. The pay system in hospitals' emergencies -- when you want to give it the characteristics -- is more attractive, the work system too, and many primary-care professionals voluntarily choose to go to emergency services, not to the canary or whale, to the Greek; they're still working here. This year, in particular, half of the pupils trained in Galicia preferred to stay in emergency services. According to you, what we had to do is tell them no, that they couldn't stay there, that they had to go to primary care. Well, for now, that's a professional's own will. What do we have to do to break this inertia? On the one hand, we have to have more training specialists; it's a cry. Look, you were talking about 2018. In 2018 there was an agreement of the International Council -- on April 24, -- in which the Government committed itself to doing a monograph on primary care, analyzing the characteristics of the tutors and looking for incentive systems for more tutors. I was talking, for example, about working on primary and hospital integration, I was talking about having a unique electronic medical history, and I was talking about a really ambitious goal: 1,500 TSIs per optional. That's what the Government of Spain at that time thought and what was done in the months and years after. This time has come, there's no table. By the way, that table I asked the minister again on June 30 at the presenceal Interterritorial Council in Madrid; I expressly requested the summons of this extraordinary meeting to speak of primary care. By the way, I and all the other advisors automatically -- well, the one in Catalonia wasn't, because it's not right to go to those socialist meetings, etc. they joined that request, and we all agreed that we urgently had to address the definition of family teaching units and the possibility of creating an extraordinary summons added to next year, but that something had to be done. So we on that line are going to follow, and so we will express it here, in Parliament, in the Interterritorial Council and where necessary. We have to keep working to train more family doctors. We have to keep working so that family doctors don't go to the emergency room, if we train them properly. For that, a new request, which we also transferred to the minister, is the creation once and for all of the emergency specialty. It's absurd that the most precious thing we're training in our hospitals and our primary care centers, which are primary doctors, is going to the emergency room because there's no emergency room. But does anyone notice this? If we'd trained emergency doctors, the family wouldn't have to cover the emergency room. Well, I encourage the Government of Spain to address this problem at once, as other civilized countries do. If you have an emergency need, form emergency doctors. Imagine tomorrow you're creating equal places for emergency teachers, because we've released 50 percent of the family squares to form family doctors. Look how easy it is! Well, I'm not saying it's not hard, but let's sit down and talk about an interterritorial council, which is what we proposed. And then you say, of course, there are fewer family doctors now than in 2008. Well, look, I'm going to give you a data -- then you'll say no -- in 2008, there were 2,402 family doctors working in Sergas, and in 2021 there are 2,515. It's 113 other family doctors. You'll now say that the budget... and I can tell you that it's the ODA and get into an argument. But neto there are more family doctors today working in Sergas than then, when, by the way, the population has fallen into nearly 50,000 inhabitants; something like 33 family doctors less we would need if we were to address the coupons in Galicia, which, of course, are not that 1,500, but that is 1.245. If we talk about the rest of the categories, in primary, nearly 600 people work more than in 2008. Well, we keep working, as I say, because these are structural issues, as you say. And by the way, I have to thank you for your intervention to Mr. Torrado, once again, for it is constructive and indeed, that is a structural issue. But there are non-structural issues that we can address. We came here to work -- and I thank Mrs. Encarna Amigo for that reference -- a short time ago with the new Director General for Health Reform, to tell how often we're working on primary care. It seems that none of you remember any of this intervention; perhaps we don't explain it well, we will have to insist again. We're working on multidisciplinary work, we're working on incorporating new categories or existing categories into new roles, we're working on local health plans. Today, precisely, the director general of Health Reform is in Cambados working with the people there, who have a specific model, to try to have a local health plan; a document considered essential in the work that was done in 2019 and 2020 on the vertebrate reform of primary care. So we all agreed -- including primary doctors, of course -- that we had to have an instrument that would allow us to plan, and above all to address the management of overdemand, which is one of the chronic problems of our system. Well, he's working on it. I repeat that today morning in Cambados, but, as Dr. Encarna Amigo said, tomorrow even at the Technical Council of Primary Care, we're going to put two concrete measures on the table -- and I have a moment -- to try that the work of primary physicians may be relieved by other professions that are already in primary care, such as nurses or pharmaceuticals. In this commitment of 2018 for the coming years, there was also talk about the incorporation of primary care nurses. Look, in Galicia they are incorporated, so much so that this year thirty graduates in Family and Community Nursing specialized took place in property this year in Galicia. That's not true in any other autonomous community. It really attracts attention that they don't consider anything positive, everything is to destroy. I repeat, we have tools. Primary care nurses with titration and those who don't have titration have to take a step forward, and they're taking it, they're taking it in vaccination, as we could check the other day and check every day. And they have to give it to primary care too, by gathering experiences that are going on, or by doing their own Welsh experience. That's what we're working on, and what we're going to talk about tomorrow -- I said -- with the Primary Care Technical Council. Well, we'll keep working on reforms, we'll keep looking for ways to help with digital tools. Another of the things, curiously, that in 2018 was agreed on in that interterritorial council for primary reform is something as spectacular as using telemedicine, that people didn't have to go to the health center to do things they can do from their home without needing to move. Well, we're going to work on that line too. We have Telea's experience, which has been so good. When I used to say there are 18,000 Welsh people in their homes being controlled through primary doctors and nurses, many of them do it through Telea, which is an application that allows the patient to say: yes, I'm fine, I have nothing; and you don't want to call on the phone, which is what they're doing -- I said -- primary doctors in the case of positive ones. Finally, we will continue to work on these reforms, we will continue to work on the structural side, and there I hope that you will continue to support this greater supply of MIR training facilities. I also hope that you will speak out about whether the emergency specialty is a solution to a problem that we have right now on the table, which seems to you that does not exist. Finally, I hope to continue to rely on the support of the People's Party and the opposition parties to try to get out of that situation, which, of course, was neither expected nor loved, but I think we can say that among all this wave situation in Galicia is gradually going to be overcome, and above all supported by these good vaccination data. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. García Comesaña. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor, for a round of clarifications, Mrs Prado Cores, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u40	I see him a little nervous, Counselor. I don't know if he's upset that they're putting the mirror on him to see the reality. I have to remind him that you are the counselor. Who has to make decisions is you, and we have to make opposition, which is what corresponds to us. And if you don't want to make decisions, tell me that, then, maybe we do, but warn, eh! [[Applause]] Look, I think it's very nice that the director of Health Reform is in Cambados today; I suppose she's helping you because, of 10 doctors, there's 5, and 9 ATS, there's 4, and there's waiting lists for more than two weeks to have a phone call. Then, I hope you're taking good note. Actually, I hope you're taking good note. Look, the People's Party of "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia..." It turns out that if Catalonia asks for the same thing, we'll take advantage of it to ask for it, but no, they put the cry in the sky. No way! No way! Not the MIR, not the MIR, it turns out not. We have Ana Pastor out there saying that in no way. Instead of having powers to avoid having to blame him...! Of course, but they wouldn't have to blame you, would they? If they had the competition and they could have an MIR of their own, there would be no one to blame and, of course, from there, we would have a problem, from there on we would have a problem... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They exercise in the country's government, please! And if there's another community that's demanding competence, you also require them for Galicia, so you can manage them from here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u41	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u42	But no, no, no, no; what's to keep beating the record. Twelve years of government, zero competitions, and we have to keep hitting the record. That's what this is about! [[Applause]] Now that we're in olympics, what we're talking about is beating records. Well, of course, it's a pity I have so little time, because I'd like to answer many of the questions you have raised, Counselor. Look, I don't mind if things are done well, what bothers me is that the Greeks and the Greeks are unattended. And they're unattended, because the problem isn't that there's someone saying what to do, the problem is thousands of people who don't find anyone telling them anything about it, where there's no one on the other side of the phone. Look, I do my homework, too. I've been trying to call that phone for days and I can't answer, and like me, thousands of gales and gales who need the phone to tell them what they have to do when they're positive, or what they have to do to know if they're positive, and it turns out they don't find anyone on the other side of the phone. That's the reality. I was told by a doctor a few days ago that if you're trying to carry primary care, you're making it a book. Actually, if what you're looking for is that, you're making it a book. Because look, it's all right, it's good that they have the Welsh public health in minimums permanently and that they have to do a war health! That's what professionals are doing, a war sanity for lack of means and resources. If primary care is not attractive, Counselor, for professionals, act and make it attractive, that this is your job, make it attractive. [[Applause]] That's your job, precisely, precisely! So, proposals: articulate once and for all an efficient public tracking system. Yes, public, public. We've made the proposal to get Sergas, assistants, captors, PSX, who know the system and the country to articulate the tracking system. You, no; you, the precariousness, and now hand over 14 million euros to a company to continue with a precarious system that is not responding. That's their alternative; ours, no; ours is an efficient, permanent public tracking system, to have a real monitoring system, not only with tracking but with other issues. Apply isolation protocol and currentanes according to the highest level of infection. Ask him and do it. If they don't let him, he'll be insubmitted and put the measures you think he has to do. That of being a servant... when you think that things are not doing well, you laugh and do them well. Human resources plan. End with that policy of precariousness and exploitation in recruitment to attract primary care, so that, instead of 30 of 70, most of them remain in primary care, which to do so makes the specialty of family doctors. And, please, in this Parliament we have already voted in favour of the emergency specialty, in favour; I say this because it seems that you did not know that we voted in favour. Insert into primary care all categories; do not redeploy tasks only, not only, but incorporate all categories necessary to disconnect lists of family doctors, to, in addition, have better care quality. Insert once for all clinical psychologists. 30 percent of the demands in primary care have to do with mental health, which is... I don't have time to tell you what the mental health situation is, right?-- incorporate clinical psychologists, speech therapists, occupational therapists, social workers, all those categories necessary to take off and give better health care to the population. And make all the wallets, that all the professionals -- these new ones and those who are now -- have their service wallet, because they're professionally prepared, who have recognized that qualification to do their job autonomously, without being secondary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u44	Why don't you do it once and for all? It demands that the 211 million return of the EVI be devoted entirely to primary care so that it be attractive and solve all the problems. [[Applause]] And, look, the professionals are very good at recognizing their work, it's very good about all that. The tributes are very good, the "medalitas," fantastic, but they need to be recognized by their work, they need recognition of their work rights and also pay, which they're not doing right now. And, look, if you don't have any vaccines...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u45	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u46	...Finished, Mr. President, they support the patent elimination campaign so they can be made more. They don't add up to that strategy of pharmaceuticals having the pan by the handle, the ones deciding what to do, what to do, how much to produce...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u48	..., at what price it is produced and when it is produced. They rebel against that situation, negotiate, exaggerate negotiations on any vaccine that is in a condition to be applied, and then I will believe that "diursito" that they would put more vaccines if they had them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u49	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u50	So, late president, some things did them good, but others...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u52	Thank you, President. Good day again. I think we have some progress; some progress is always made when there is a debate. I think I heard a very good statement that describes a little bit why we come to this debate. He said to Mrs. Friend -- and correct me if it isn't so -- we'd rather come and listen to the counselor than listen to the opposition. Well, I think it's okay to define it that way. I'm trying to come and listen to everyone. If they had listened to everyone, it might have been a little better, because listening only among you has these difficulties. Anyway, we're not going to hit that, but I think it's pretty descriptive, especially because there are some things that get us in the face, as well as those that throw a bag, when we're the ones that've seen them defending all their lives. But, finally, it's okay, we'll try to adjust, because it's okay. Counselor, you say there are now 250 more trackers than before. All right, because if you say those who add up, you know how many they are. So maybe it's easy to answer. How many trackers are there in Sergas? Because, if you know that you've added 250, you know who you are and who you don't. How many were there before those 250? Or rather, to do it better, after the 250s, so it could be a bigger data. How much? Because it is important to know; to us it seems important. By the way, in a system that finally refused to be licensed and privatized -- but that's it; it deals, it re-dimensionates, and re-dimension is not a good word to say: we hire more than a few days and then we throw them out; that's the re-sizing-- how many are there? That's an interesting thing, because that way we can figure out if the volume of calls you say -- that's enough, according to you -- depends on how many we have. Maybe if we had more, we could have more calls, but maybe it's okay. In fact, what we need to know is how many are, and how much are you looking at something that is important, which is to establish a traceability that can contribute -- among other measures -- to more control the expansion of the epidemic. About the professionals, I think it's very interesting, because you've entered a little bit into the debate and the confrontation of the general, structural problem, actually, as we said. Let me get to several specific points -- I'll do a common reflection -- You say, "Ah!, you're going to take me out here the budget of one year and another and so on... Look, I'm taking the budget out for two reasons: firstly, because it's the official document; and, secondly, because everything that's not in the budgets will already explain to me how it's paid. It is true that the Court of Auditors says that the counsellor that you are conducting is quite opaque and that there are many problems in monitoring it. I would worry enough that there were enough problems in monitoring something I said, I would worry a lot. But he says Sergas -- and it's none of his business because this is accumulated, but I see that in that plan you're continuing -- it's pretty opaque and there's trouble checking how they spend the money. But budgets are the document that says how they are spent, and budgets, which also include the staff annex -- but always, to do an analysis; here budget debates have these things -- say what they say: 1,041 professionals less in primary care between the 2009 budget and the 2021 budget, which are the years of the government of Feijóo --. And the rest is account, but that's what the budgets say. [[Applause]] Because if not, who pays them? The emergency specialty, as Mrs Prado has said here, we have already voted for it in this Parliament, and it is fine. It's late, and we know -- you know -- that the government is working on it -- that's right, slow, because it's a hard question --. You know what I'd like? I've heard the People's Party ask the Government of the State of Mariano Rajoy for the emergency specialty. Do you know how many times they've done it? Sky! And you know why? Because you don't care about the emergency department; you don't care about it now because it rules the Socialist Party in Madrid, because that's what they're doing, throwing balloons out. Of course it's important, but by the way, it's late. It's difficult because many primary doctors don't want it and there's corporate difficulties, but we're defending the emergency specialty. We defended her now and defended her before. You don't, it seems to you that the system cares about one line when it governs the PP; and when it doesn't rule another. You spoke about the targets presented in 2018. A good starting point, but it's slow, it's slow. There was a pandemic in the middle, but it's slow. And do you know what happens and why 2018 targets come? Because it changed the government. When was the People's Party planning primary care? Never! Because the staff deficit was not discovered in 2018. Or didn't we know in 2012, in 2010 and 2005 when the professionals were going to retire? By the way, in the next three or four years -- much more intensively than the volume of professionals and the ages they are -- much more. Why not 2018 start complaining? Because he started ruling the Socialist Party. They care about the story! You don't care about the system -- sometimes it looks like-- What about the MIR? Well, it turns out when the government arrived in 2018 -- if you want to talk about it -- it showed that there were 500 requests from Galicia in a drawer -- the squares to enable -- When did you protest? Never!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u54	And you know what happened? That 150 community family doctors' squares have not been asked for ten years. It was because they thought they didn't need it. Those didn't have to. You have left the health system, in particular primary care, tristed and now the following -- to those who call the largest MIR of history three times in a row and who fulfill the councils of all autonomous communities to make a primary plan, of what you complain about is slow, but what you do, which was not done before, and which is implementing improvements in the working conditions for primary professionals, who were not done before -- are blaming them for not going faster. It's faster now, even if it's slow, than not, which is what you did. So, see if we're starting to talk less about it and we're talking about having the second autonomous community with worse working conditions for primary professionals. Maybe that's why they're going. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u56	Thank you, President. Thank you again, Counselor. As much as you come here to count, explaining for the kid, the reforms and the transformation of the health system, you see that the opposition is still the same issue. Mrs. Prado, you didn't understand anything I told you about equity, about the MIR system... we're talking about equity for all citizens of this country on a national level. But he didn't understand anything. [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to start, because time is limited. Mr. Torado, I ended up saying that it seems to be not quite clear yet what happened to the Health Act, so I'm going to explain to you. This proposal was brought to debate, and the Socialist Party knows that it said here that this law was a Bolivarian delirium of Mr. Feijóo, that this law was an authoritarian drift, that it wanted to implement a state of permanent alarm and that it was a law that restricted the rights and freedoms of the Greeks. When the law was passed, what did the Central Government say? You refused to open a bilateral commission for dialogue. The first thing he did was he urgently asked the State Council to tell me to go through several articles of the law. And the Council of State told him that I didn't understand the urgency and that five of the six articles they wanted to resort to had no problem with unconstitutionality. The central government then brought to the Constitutional Court only that article, in its entirety, all its precepts, argued, Mr. Torrado, which were extremely serious and unconstitutional. Shortly after we saw that an autonomous government, of its political colour, of the PSOE, literally copied all these sections, except one. And a week ago the Constitutional Court lifted the suspension of all paragraphs, except one. And the central government, to stop doing the ridiculous thing in a matter where he was getting more and more cornered, decided to withdraw the resource and talk. And speaking came to an agreement in that single paragraph which caused doubts. And what does that deal say? It must be understood that compulsory vaccination of which the law speaks can only be done if it is decided by the State health authority. And I'm going to read textually an excerpt from what our spokesman, Mr. Puy, said in the discussion of consideration of this law. And I read, "Vaccination is not mandatory and therefore this law does not make it compulsory, but what would happen if the State" -- that Mr. Illa said that it would not in principle be mandatory -- "the mandatory set? For if the State declares that vaccination is mandatory, this law provides for the situation of vaccination when it is compulsory. In the meantime, obviously, compulsory work does not work and does not exist." Finally, after all the spook of the Socialist Party of Galicia saying that it was an authoritarian law, and the Central Government saying it was unconstitutional, and the PSOE of Balearics copying our law while the PSdeG kept saying it was evil, the final result to which the Government of the State came is an agreement that says the same as our spokesperson of the People's Group when he introduced the law... listen, please listen! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u57	Mr. Torado, please listen. Stop talking and listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u58	...I won't explain it every time he comes here. Congratulations, PSdeG gentlemen, a great achievement. They started by rejecting the whole law and finally got a section of an article to say what the spokesperson for the People's Party, and the rest of the sections and the rest of the articles to copy them by the socialists of other autonomous communities. [[Applause]] Congratulations, PSOE gentlemen, because not wanting to make a political game worse, you have a lot of merit and you have to recognize it. I would also like to clarify to you, Mr Torrado, that the emergency department was a parliamentary agreement, of the three groups that we are here; an agreement in which, in the context of the Reactivation Committee, where they came to talk, we all agreed. And I miss these parliamentary agreements and that health positivity. I think we should do a lot more. So I think no one here has to point at any point, but the ball is now on the central government roof. Then apply yourself to ask. A lot has been said about the tracking station. They've been spreading doubts about this contact tracking facility for months, but I know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u60	... -- I'm done --, they've asked for emergency contract records that have been made since the Joint Service, and the Board has handed us over. And since then they have shown nothing. How strange! the Board gives them all that documentation of such a suspicious and so dark matter and you don't do anything. A public invitation to tender has already been issued, this is on the website of joint contracts, it is transparent, all the seals and all the records on the recruitment table. Opposition gentlemen, I ask you to change your speech if you ever want to win the election. I'm done thanking the advisor and congratulations again for his dedication, for his efforts in health care that is being done in these days of pandemic; extendable congratulations -- I'm done already -- to the set of workers and workers in Welsh public health, and thank you for being with people and professionals. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the double shift, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u62	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to continue to visit the health centers, that of Cambados, that of Orders or any other center where we believe we can provide. We don't escape from that, Mrs. Prado. Obviously, saying that in a health center on August 2nd, half the doctors are on vacation... well, it's obvious. We'd like it not to. But maybe we should use the Catalan model and ban them on vacations, right? But we're not on that line, we think that vacation need is like this... why do you tell me I have -- I don't know -- something in my face? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To say that the workers are on vacation is something wrong? [[Murmurs.]] Yes, they're replaced. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And what do we replace them with? [[Murmurs.]] Oh, of course, of course! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u63	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u64	Of course, of course, there's the problem, actually. Well, look, we replaced everyone in the CAP, as I said a moment ago. What's the matter is that they didn't listen either. All the resources we have, those we have to hire, are devoted primarily to the CAP. I'm going to repeat that, that I've said before: when any resources to guarantee assistance in the CAP -- that is a priority for us -- we can use it in ordinary primary care, we use it. But traditionally the family doctors, and I've always thanked them and I'll continue to thank them, in the summer months they cover each other's coupons. It's true that demand usually goes down in all summers. Yes, come down, and whenever you want, I can give you the data. They won't be low. Of course, these weeks have not come down because we have a pandemic, and it turns out the positives appear and people go to primary care, which is what they have to do, there's no other alternative. I insist that, in order to avoid this need for primary care, we put in place mechanisms with the resources I've already commented on. Mrs. Prado, right now, when you finish, if you want, we take the phone and call the station. We'll do it in a minute. It may take four tones, five or six, but we'll do it if you want. Because to say that it's called and that it doesn't take anyone... you keep doing that, but it really works. I just gave you some data that I think are important. But, well, I insist you'll have to keep working. In any case, I do believe that, with everything we're talking about here today, fortunately, we all agree that the vaccination process works perfectly. Galicia is one of the most and best places to vaccinate, and that's everyone's credit. Of course the primary care nurses, who took that step forward and are working on the massive vaccination points. And they replaced their contracts with 200 people we hire instead. The organization works, and as we have vaccines, we will once and for all end the vaccination of the entire population. We trust that in the coming weeks we can make significant progress in the younger people, that no one is left behind without vaccination -- that that we're also worried about and today we're not talking about it --. We have to keep insisting, with older people who decided not to vaccinate, to do it. Fortunately in Galicia that percentage is small, but we have it and we have to keep working on it. There Mr. Torrado always expressed himself in favour of working on that line, and I want to ask everyone to insist on it. There are a lot of people who have been hospitalized right now that, having the corresponding age, they don't have the pattern -- sometimes they don't even have a dose set --. So we must insist there. We must also insist that the people who are called should attend. We're seeing -- something that's also happening in other countries -- that, as we're going down at the citation age, the percentage of people who don't care is growing. Then we compensate for the autocite system to cover those holes, but we have to keep insisting. And there I ask for the help of all parliamentary groups to encourage the people who come to vaccinate themselves. And he also used to say the data of those who attend the massive crows. I was giving a figure that I think has gone unnoticed, which is that 54% of the population that we cited for the slaves doesn't fit. The other day we made a bus in an important city in Galicia. 500 people were put together to go do the trick -- in this case with antigens -- and 300 didn't come. It was in the center of the city and in the schedule that he chose the person he pointed out. We have to keep insisting on those crows. It's probably something on time. It's true that, the better it works, it's off date, and, when people arrive and want, take the date and leave. Well, we have to work on it, but I also ask for it, in that sense, to help encourage the slaves and the vaccination. I believe that with regard to the situation in hospitals, as we said, we had no patients in hospitals or ICUs, but we believe that we are working in a coordinated, well integrated way and testing new drugs in clinical trials. I believe that the situation is reasonably well, despite the situation that we are living with these nearly 20,000 active cases. And we have the primary issue. Indeed, I believe that we agree that the situation of primary education is worrying. There is a clear lack of family doctors, basically; and now, of nurses. And we have to work for it. And on the solution, of course, Mrs. Prado, I agree with you that you have to include new categories, that we are also working on. But the most urgent thing is to ease the work of the specialty you have, in that sense, more problems, which is family medicine. That can be arranged by putting more specialists, and that's where speciality is essential. I think we have to keep working on allowing us to believe more units -- probably with a change or a change in the criteria of teaching units --. In that agreement of the year 2018 we were commenting -- on April 24, 2018, Mr. Torrado, in which the People's Party was ruling in Galicia --... On April 24, 2018 he ruled, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So at that meeting a number of issues were agreed, and an important -- I repeat -- was to work in these other categories and take those steps so that teaching units could also be resized. That effort to create MIR squares, indeed, was there. The Ministry has believed the squares, but who's paying them is the Greek Government -- the MIR squares -- because just like somebody thinks that the MIR squares are funded by the Spanish State. No, they finance autonomous communities. And I'll tell you something, Mrs. Prado. I can't agree that, neither now nor in the future, MIR teaching is a competition from any autonomous community, or from Galician or Catalan or any other. I think this is the same -- and Mrs. Friend pointed out it -- that if ONT was transferred and Catalan citizens were managing their organs when there's a patient and they weren't passed on to any autonomous community. Well, in MIR formation, saving the distances, something happens. In these resources and in the capacity of the system's MIR training I can no longer agree with Mrs. Friend. There are two things in Spanish health that stand out in the world, which is the specialized training system and its prayer system, and we can't split them in pieces. Besides, look, I'm unfortunately working in Catalonia on a teaching unit, and I know what it would mean if residents of the rest of Spain couldn't go to Catalonia and vice versa, it would be a capital mistake. [[Murmurs.]] And I trust the Government of Spain doesn't give up on that blackmail, because it's nothing more than blackmail for me. [[Applause]] And, in addition, there's a particularly worrisome context for me. I repeat, at a meeting over a month ago, exactly, we asked the Ministry of Health for a monographic meeting to address the training of family doctors. He gave his mouth to answer. Tomorrow I will insist again on the Inter-Territorial Council in which this meeting takes place. And far from that meeting, what we heard yesterday is that, starting in October, the problem in Catalonia is solved. Sadly, I can't agree with you that this is a transfer that Galicia has to demand. I repeat, neither Galicia nor any other autonomous community. Then, again, I can't agree with you. You, of course, say you make me insubmission. What advice! I don't want those. The strength of the health system in Spain is, or should be, coordination. [[Murmurs.]] This figure of the Interterritorial Council should work to coordinate us all, and you advise me to resign. Look, we have discrepancies in the Interterritorial Council, a lot. Speaking of vaccines, someone said, "Ask for more vaccines." We've already asked for them. We asked to put the second dose of AstraZeneca when others said that Pfizer should be put. Thanks to that in Galicia we were able to vaccinate with Pfizer many people for not heeding that recommendation and were vaccinated with AstraZeneca, and there are the data. And we also said no, we voted not that when it was proposed not to put the second dose and extend the period without a second dose to cover more patients. So we took some spectacular data from the Welsh database, saying that if we put the second dose, the results would be much better. And they paid attention to us, and so they did. And now we're not going to resign, but we're asking that Janssen's vaccine be used for minors under 40, as his technical record says, and as was said by this autonomous community, first of all, and many others in many interterritorial councils. Then we will continue to insist, Mrs. Prado, but no insubmissions, Mrs. Prado, we will not be insubmissions. You're talking about mental health. Look, he didn't find out either, but the German Mental Health Plan is incorporating psychologists, psychiatrists and mental health nurse in primary care centers. We've got five embedded in these last few... of course, it'll look little to you, but five, five. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Greek Mental Health Plan is developed in more than 80 percent of the squares scheduled for this year. We're still working. We actually agree that there must be clinical psychologists. And we're putting them on, but -- I repeat -- the main problem of primary care is in the category of doctor and nurse, and there we have to work. And I encourage you, if you have any proposals there -- even if the decisions have to be made at the end of the day -- to get to that technical council where the unions, the professionals and the administration are represented looking for solutions. And, as I say, tomorrow we're going to have this new meeting to deal with two important issues: the role of nursing, both community family and non-specialist nursing, and the role of pharmacists. We have a problem with prescription, it's true, there's a problem with prescription. Part of this pressure in primary care is that of the patients who have enough time to renew the prescription and in the pharmacy office can't logically delay it, and we have a problem. We're going to find solutions to that, and, as I say, tomorrow we're going to make a proposal in that direction. And we will continue to make proposals here in September and October, when we really want to have several initiatives and be able to put these solutions on the table. Of course, in July it's gonna be complicated. In July I have to keep asking primary care doctors, above all, and that, as they're doing these years back, help cover their roommate's vacations. There's no other way to do it. We don't have that magic vein to get primary care doctors out of where there are no primary care. And I insist on that criterion of prioritizing attention in primary care emergency services, which is our main criterion in optimizing those resources. I'm going to finish with a data that's also another controversial part, in addition to primary care, which is tracking. Today's data: 94.7% of the positives that occurred yesterday were called in the first twenty-four hours -- 94.5% --. And 95% of the contacts declared by these positive cases were also called in the first twenty-four hours. I started my intervention by saying that, in that explosive increase of positive cases, or suspicions -- because, I repeat, the break-up of autotests of antigens in pharmacy offices, free sale and without prescription caused an alteration of our ecosystem of diagnostic tests -- and admitting a problem in those early weeks, in those early days, when the positives appeared and the citizen didn't know what to do with that positive, I admitted, and so again I say, areas of improvement in the operation of the power plant. And I also said that very concrete measures have been taken, such as enabling that phone to communicate the positives or to nothing valued measure to put in the pharmacy offices a system of integration of these results into our public systems; a solution, which, of course, we asked the Ministry of Health at that meeting on June 30 when he announced that he was going to put in place the home diagnostic self-tests. And we warned of the problem that could cause citizens to have a positive one and they didn't know what to do. We proposed that there be in the decree, or in an annex, a system for the positives to be communicated to the system. Well, since the government didn't, we did. First we did it on that phone and two weeks ago, with the Official College of Pharmaceuticals making an agreement that allows them to upload that data. We'll continue to work on that line, trying to get all suspected cases detected as soon as possible, if they are isolated and if they are made to the corresponding PCR -- it gave that data of 95,000 PCRs requested in July from the contact tracking center -- looking for those PCRs not to have to ask for them from the family doctor and therefore trying to help the population in this situation not to go to the health centers because they have other alternatives. When these alternatives weren't there, they came, and the workers did it in the best way possible. We're going to put these alternatives so that citizens don't have to go to the health center. Then we'll follow and there, of course, they'll find us for any improvement proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-08-03-DSPG045.u65	Thank you very much, Counselor. We're done with the session.
