ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u1	We resumed the meeting with point 8, which is that of questions for the oral reply of the President of the Union. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, G. P. of the Galician Socialists, asked about the assessment made by the Government of the situation of the AP-9 motorway in relation to the beaches and its transfer to Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u2	Mr. Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. The AP-9 situation is a situation that is historically of concern to the Greeks and to the Greeks. They are an abusive set of fees, which involve a heavy burden for transportation through the fundamental artery to connect the north to the south of Galicia, from Tui to Ferrol; a fee that today exceeds twenty-two euros per road along that highway and which requires commitment and work to solve this situation. While other highways of the same time as they were made are outside the scope of concessionaires and begin to recover for the public and raise fees, the situation of AP-9 is differentially different from that of the rest of the highways that have the same time, which were done at the same time. That situation has changed because in the Aznar government it has decided to make an extension of that concession, which implies that the heavy burden for the transport of the Greeks and the Greeks will last until 2048. Twenty-five more years of paying fees in AP-9 for the responsibility of the Government of the People's Party of Aznar; by the way, not in times of great economic crisis. Therefore, the Greeks and the Greeks have to make a joint reflection on how to get rid of a differential fact that is harmful, that is a slab, that entails abusive sins for the whole of our citizenship. And the People's Party has to give answers, it has to recognize its mistakes and contribute to solutions. That's the roadmap we've proposed. Because after the extension of the concession will last until 2048, after the PP also decided to put the concessionaire into private hands, privatize it, after a concessionaire who perceives in many years over one hundred thirty million euros, more than three hundred thousand euros a day, at stakes, it's time to make decisions, it's time to recognize that this line has to be redirected. We have to do this in Galicia with a clear approach, because we have to work for a historical reduction of the rates and we also have to get an AP-9 transfer to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. For us, as for the Greeks and for the Greeks, for all those who travel through the AP-9, the fundamental question is to raise this situation of abusive beaches, but, of course, we push, support, promote and lead the AP-9 transfer to the Welsh Autonomy. The People's Party went against it; the Government of Aznar extended the concession for another twenty-five years; the Government of Rajoy has always vetoed the debate at the parliamentary headquarters in Congress on the transfer of AP-9, and the People's Party also opposes the general budgets of the State, which are worth €62.3 million in bonuses for the toll of AP-9. That's why we have to work on a historic deal with the concessionaire until the year 2048, not just to lower the rates this year, but to do so in an agreement that allows that down to the end of the concession. That's the point. Those parties that opposed the general government budgets have failed. They made a mistake because they voted not on budgets that have a commitment to reduce AP-9 fees in a historical way. That's why 76% of the Greeks and the Greeks point out that the Government's decision to lower the rates for AP-9 in 2021 is very positive or positive. 77% of the Greeks and the Greeks support that line leading a progressive government in Spain. But it's also time that you, Mr. Feijóo, acknowledge the errors of the PP, that you work alongside the Government of Spain to move forward, because you didn't do so when they ruled, and also say that you're going to put yourself on your side to work on what you didn't do when you ruled the PP in Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u4	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, the truth is that I am surprised by the partial reading, and consequently incomplete, that you do about the history of the highway. It's surprising that you want us to come here to appreciate what you yourselves in your initiative qualify as the magnificent AP-9 management performance of the Central Government. Textually, the GNP of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group proposes: "recognizing the efforts made by the Government of Spain in budgets in the field of subsidies for the fees of AP-9". He even asks us to participate in paying for the fees of AP-9 the Government of the Union, that is, the Greeks. It's amazing! It is surprising, Your Honor, that I ask you to support the BNG, when the BNG has an initiative against the constant and continuous delay in the descent of the beaches. And it's surprising that you ask the majority group of the House, when this majority group since 2007, continuously, in opposition and in government, we call for the transfer of that self-road, and you from the Socialist Party and the BNG voted against the transfer of the highway. But it still surprises more in that undisclosed, and thus false vision of the expansion of concessions. Come here and say it was the People's Party Government. Look: extended the concession of the UCD government; extended the concession of Felipe González in 1994, and extended it until 2023; and extended it again the Government of President Aznar; that is, as a result of the free connection between Fene-Ferrol continuously. So, Your Honor, that unclear vision what you believe is that the Socialist Party is or has been against the transfer, and it was the Socialist Party -- the UCD has expanded it only one year -- the first government that expanded the concession of the highway, simply to let that highway connect to Tui. By the way, the highway from Vigo to Tui. Therefore, Mr. Knight, if you want to keep working together, we are at your disposal. Now, you know that the Socialist Government in Galicia and the BNG, in 2006, made an absolutely unfortunate agreement, because they agreed to pay up to 2048 million euros every year to finance the descent of Rande and Barcala. What did we do when we got to the government? To denounce the agreement, and we save Galicia four hundred million euros in peas; that is, the same thing we're dedicated to doing the new public hospital in the Coruña. Therefore, Mr. Caballero, this should be taken into account, in addition to the fact that you voted against the transfer of the highway. Besides, nothing more and nothing less, they did a fantastic business again for the highway when they were in government, which is an increase of 1% a year until 2048 of all fees to finance the extension of the Rande Bridge and the Santiago circumvaluation. This is something that the Galician Advisory Council considers null and void. So, Mr. Caballero, if you want to keep working to see how we're getting off that payroll of Spain's most expensive highway, please, and if you want to keep working now that you've changed your criteria to transfer the highway, too, please. Yes, Your Honor, the highway must be transferred economically and also with a budgetary commitment to expand the highway at those points that were already compromised years ago: in Pontevedra, in Vigo, in Coruña, in the Santiago connection.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u7	Mr. Knight, I have no objection to admitting the errors of the People's Party when I was in government in relation to the toll; but in relation to the Socialist Party, Your Honor, it's a joke. The joke that we have to pay, in addition to the EUR 64 million already disbursed to fund the toll of a state highway, now that they ask us to pay again until the year 2048 four hundred million more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u9	It's at least a joke, Mr. Knight. I hope you're here today to say that Galicia can't pay the fee or the bonus of a fee from a state highway, not before the transfer, not after the transfer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u11	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u12	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand that the People's Party is focused on its history. Because the reality is, if it hadn't been for the People's Party and the Government of Aznar, in 2023 the peas of AP-9 would be free, there would be no peas. But you decided that until 2048 there was an extension of a concession to a concessionaire that also privatized. But it's not weird because already in 2014, Mrs. Ana Pastor was aggravating the extension of the AP-9 concession made by the government of Aznar. Mr. Rajoy's own Minister of Development washed his hands and tried to save his back for a co-responsibility of which the People's Party wants to wash and shield itself. They're unloaded. How are you president of Galicia's board for eleven years not doing anything to lower AP-9's fees? Because as president of the Government of Spain Mr. Rajoy for seven years, no decisive bet has been made to lower those fees. And now there's a government in Spain that has that schedule, which allowed the debate of the transfer in Congress of Deputies in 2018 and also in 2021, and which is open to talking about the transfer of AP-9; things that you vetoed. But, moreover, Mr Feijóo, the Government of Spain in the general State budgets incorporates €62.3 million for AP-9 bonuses. What are the bonuses that the Government of Unity intends to make? Because other autonomous communities, such as Aragon, like Catalonia, like A Rioxa, like Andalucia, have blessed state highways. The ones that concern us are the Greeks and the Greeks. And to those Welsh and Welsh you have to answer if you're willing to contribute to lowering these fees. Where the Government of Spain favours the return route, are you willing to grant the return route to lift the abusive beaches, which are the responsibility of the People's Party at AP-9? Or are you going to continue to be on the corner without solving the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, which we know when we pay the fees of AP-9 the liability until 2048 carries the symbols of the People's Party? Get to work, Mr. Feijóo, to find a solution. There's a government in Spain that has a very different situation and a very different position to work on the transfer and reduction of fees. Be part of the solution and not part of the problem; cooperate. Make an economic study of how you can contribute and have the will to contribute from the autonomous administration's ark to try to exculpate your responsibilities for this injured concession, for that poisoned gift that the People's Party has given us of terms to pay the fees until 2048. It's in your hands. Mr. Feijóo, be part of the solution in the historical downturn...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u15	...of the peas of AP-9 that the Government of Spain is negotiating, not for the year 2021, for an agreement that lasts until 2048.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u17	It's twenty-five years of peas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u18	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u19	...that they deserve the commitment of the Government of Galicia. And you will have the collaboration of the Greek socialists to work on that line of work. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u20	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Close the question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u21	Gentlemen, reality isn't that you're here to ignore it, manipulate it, and see that you're either not interested in the truth, or you're simply the only objective you have here is to shut up and applaud. Look, if the Government does something for Galicia, I'll be the first to applaud her. Now, if the Central Government discriminates Galicia, it is my duty to be the first to denounce her and claim her. So, Mr. Caballero, when you come back here to talk about whether a central government of the PP has expanded the concession of the highway, and forgets that the first government that extended the concession for more than a decade was the Socialist Government, it is a falsity that appears in the Journal of Sessions. And there are so many, Mr. Knight, that one day he will repent. It's okay! We must always tell the truth, sometimes it benefits and sometimes it harms. No, you're wrong! The truth always benefits, Mr. Knight. I'll have a working meeting with Mr. Abalos in the next few days. Mr. Abalos knows perfectly well that I am a loyal person, because I represent the State in Galicia and because I owe myself not only to the Greeks who vote for me, but to all the Greeks, including you. So I'll tell you what's pending, what's behind and what can't wait anymore. But come here and say that if a PP government has increased the rates... but it's twice as false! The only one who continuously increased the rates to 1% cumulative until 2048 was a Government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. And come here just to cheat on us and lie to us again. How can we collaborate at the Galician Summit and what did the People's Party do when Mr. Rajoy was ruling? What he did was accept the denunciation of an agreement that destroyed the autonomous Community's vessels, which was to pay seven million euros a year and more the IPC until 2048 to contribute to the fall of the beaches of Rande and La Barcala from the assumptions of the Greeks on a state highway. So the Government of the People's Party then saved Galicia four hundred million euros. And now it seems like you're very happy because they're going to put 50 million euros to lower the toll; we, too. Now, Mr. Caballero, I received a request from the Government of Spain on December date where I am obliged to pay again, year by year, the fees through an agreement that was settled at the request of the Council of Galicia and which accepted the Government of President Rajoy. And now what you're proposing to Galicia is to resume that agreement and pay Audasa 50 percent of the descent of the beaches of Rande and Barcala until 2048. This is the Ministry of Development requirement. You said no... Your Honor, I give it to the President of Parliament. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And from the requirement -- textual leo -- : "1. Indemnify Audasa with the following concepts: half of the difference between the salary that Audasa has received and that which has been satisfied by the real decree according to the attached liquidation." And besides, it requires the Government of Spain the interests that legally correspond. In addition, I request to pay the annual payments from 23 November 2020 to 18 August 2048. That is, you put 60 million euros a year and ask Galicia to pay 4 billion euros a year. [[Murmurs.]] Is that the proposal we are proud of?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u23	This is the requirement signed by your government, Mr. Knight. Do you think it's reasonable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u24	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u25	...that in the full debate of the transfer of the highway and in the full debate of the fee reduction notify the Government of Galician Union, for a requirement, nothing more and nothing less, that we pay what we must, according to the Government, and that we pay until 2048 what Audasa claims to the Government of Spain? Is this the proposal we have to applaud in the House? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u27	Mr. Knight, this is a joke of taste...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u28	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u29	...that's going to start wrong the lowering of the fees. And, Your Honor, this is the first time that a Government of Spain with a member of a ministry asks Galicia to pay Audasa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u30	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u31	It's the first time in history...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u33	...lamentable from this freeway in the Atlantic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u34	Thank you, President. It's over or your time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u35	...that Galicia wants to manage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u36	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u37	...with the lower price you pay. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u38	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Union of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the view of the German Government regarding the defense that is making of the interests of Galician citizenship in the pandemic of cowardice-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u39	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u40	Thank you very much, President. The truth is, I've got to start by saying that it's causing a blow to see Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Caballero talking about the downs of AP-9, throwing their rags to the head by a subject so that neither one or the other moved a finger. And that's the opposite. [[Applause]] What we've been seeing for 40 years is how the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party are paying their taxes to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And instead of coming here to apologize to the people of this country for not defending their interests, they're hanging medals and a pimpampumum in which one uses Galicia still to defend Sánchez and the other to defend the marriage. [[Applause]] Really, ladies! [[Applause]] Indeed, the citizenship of this country knows that there will be a reduction in the rates of AP-9. Of course it is, but it's thanks to the BNG investment agreement, which had 62 million euros to execute those fees. [[Laughter]] And of course that agreement had to be executed since January 1st. The problem is that Mr. Sánchez put Galicia in a way of waiting. The Socialist Party does what the People's Party did, which is to believe that Galicia can always wait. You can wait at AVE, you can wait at AP-9, you can wait at Alcoa... this, gentlemen, is the portrait of the futility of the state forces you represent in our country. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And the grave thing is that this jug has to be seen in the middle of a pandemic, yes, gentlemen, where your government, Mr. Feijóo, remains improvised. There's not even a public health boost to ensure that the vaccination campaign works well. In economic matters, there is no real rescue plan for the most crisis-affected sectors, the only thing we have is time-consuming aid, which will not prevent thousands of companies from closing down in our country. And the most serious thing, Mr. Feijóo, is his political inability to defend Galician interests in such a transcendent matter as the European recovery funds. At the last control session I asked him about this, but you answered what's already usual: crispation, personal disqualification... he came here to praise the debate, and everything so we don't talk about the real problems of the people of this country. Because what we are seeing is that every day his contempt for this camera is more evident, Mr Feijóo; every day it is more evident that Parliament remains because it is more comfortable in its parallel reality and in manipulation. Sometimes I have the feeling that you would like to close this parliament, but as you can't... what you're doing is boycotting it here in the debate, mounting mess, disqualifying and cracking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, all this is so that we don't talk about people's problems and there's no political debate on what alternatives are. And I already want to tell you that don't count on the BNG for that, that the BNG will continue to defend that this camera has to be the center of political life, where there is debate, dialogue, contrast of ideas. And that's why, Mr. Feijoo, today we want to ask you if you think your government is properly defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks in the midst of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Bochornoso is, Mrs Pontón, that you were a Member who voted against the transfer of the motorway and had not yet apologized. Bochornoso is Mrs Pontón, that you were an honourable lady who supported the two-party Government, who signed a lamentable agreement for the interests of Galicia, which was to finance 50% of Rande's and Barcala's peas until 2048, with a breakdown of the German autonomous farm of more than four hundred and fifty million euros; sixty-seven already paid when I arrived at the government, plus the 400 million we managed to save. [[Applause]] Sadly, Mrs. Pontón, is that you come here to teach lessons about whether or not I want a parliament. But is this a joke or do you think it deserves a comment? After yesterday, the 23-F, to tell this group that we are against a democratic parliament, and to listen, see and read his statement with Bildu, again, with the Republican Left, again, with all the independent parties in the country, in which it is said that the democracy and the Constitution of 78 are a regime, and they say yes. Do you think Spanish democracy is a regime? [[Murmurs.]] The Spanish transition and Spanish democracy and more the Spanish Constitution and the Galician Autonomy Statute are a regime! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they say so. Look, neither Mr. Beiras nor Mr. Quintana ever proposed the ideological positioning of the current BNG and Mrs. Pontón at the front. [[Murmurs.]] I have never seen in this parliament, since I was in college until now, a pronouncement so blatant, so regrettable, so boisterous, in which it is said that the Spanish Constitution, and consequently the Statute, is a regime. Like it's a regime? It is the sovereign expression of the Spanish people for democracy, ladies and gentlemen, and against dictatorship. [[Applause]] But, Mrs. Pontón, you came here yesterday as an independent and sovereignist, and I don't say so, this... No, I know this is normal for you, but for me as President of the Union to have colleagues who are independent will understand that I am not surprised. [[Mr. Nuñez Feijó showed the House a leaflet.]] [[Murmurs.]] And that they declare the Spanish Constitution as a regime, and that the Spanish transition is a regime, and that the 23-F was -- literally -- "a state operation." I mean, are you trying to transfer them to the Spaniards and the Greeks that the 23-F was set up to simulate a blow, so that then the democratic forces were against the coup, and that all this is a magnet because really the Constitution is a regime? And ask me now how I defend the interests of the Greeks? Denouncing this attitude and saying very clearly: Mrs Pontón, respect for Galician democracy, respect for the country's Parliament. If you want to be an independent, come on! Now, to tell us that here the Members and Members of the PSOE or the Members of the BNG are a scheme is something that is unacceptable. And that's why I'm moving... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u43	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u44	Mrs Pontón, I know perfectly well your strategy: to vote on everything that is not, to constantly criticise the Socialist Party in Madrid, to rule unquestionably with the Socialist Party in Galicia, to transfer its electoral programme to this chamber, and when we do not agree simply to say that we do not listen and that we do not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u46	...sensitivity. Mrs. Pontón, we've been legislating for a short time, but the most radical BNG and the most lamentable BNG in Galicia's history is what you lead. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u47	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u48	Mr. Feijóo, you're getting more radical and more nervous every day -- I have to tell you -- because it's surprising how radical and nervous you are. [[Applause]] You know it's disgusting? It's to see a president of the board in the middle of a pandemic come to the control session to oppose the opposition. That's disgusting! [[Applause]] I ask you about Galicia, and you tell me about 23-F; I ask about the funds of economic recovery, and you tell me about 23-F; I ask about the vaccination campaign, and you tell me about 23-F. It's just, Mr. Feijóo, this is the control session! What you are showing us is that you do not respect this parliament, that you do not respect the central role of a democracy, that it is precisely that the Government comes to account for this parliament and not to defame, praise and constantly prevent us from having a debate on the problems that people in our country have. [[Applause]] Because people out there are what they want are solutions, not to see a radical president come here to make opposition, to praise the debate and there's a mess -- yes, yes, yes -- so we don't talk about the real problems people have. [[Murmurs.]] You're always doing your "political drumming" interventions. It's just that he comes here to set up a fight, and make the Trump of Galicia, unique and exclusively because he wants to cover up the bad management of this crisis, the bad management he's doing in the field of responding to the problems of citizenship, and every day it's more obvious that Parliament is left, so you're here to make a scampism. And everything so we don't talk about the real problems of this country, not to notice their mismanagement and to hide that they have no proposals to bring this country forward. Since BNG we're not going to allow this, and of course we're going to work with the utmost responsibility to give solutions and alternatives to the people of this country. We have a proposal to speak seriously about how to launch Galicia's economic reactivation. [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo shows the House a document.]] And I'm waiting for the president of the board to raise the phone to talk about Galicia's future with the force leading the opposition in this country. I'm going to leave this proposal to you in your seat, Mr. Feijóo, and I hope that we have an answer that is not the insult, the defamation and the attack, because the Greeks and the Greeks are waiting for the best of us in the greatest crisis in times of peace this country has ever experienced.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u49	Wait, wait, wait, Mrs. Pontón. No, I'm sorry about the pandemic. Leave him here, we'll get him. No, look out, that thing... No, no... but it's not like that. [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo leaves a document on the seat of Mr. President of the Galician Union and goes back to its seat.]] Mrs. Pontón, let's stick to the rules, eh! [[Applause]] I think we must all respect the rules. So I'd like that document to have another procedure. It's not like that, because if you don't, it's just fine for me that they have all this stuff covered up, let's put the mamparas down here and get everyone to do whatever they want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If we're here trying to contain everyone and make an effort, and society sees that we behave like this, too, because I don't agree with what has just been done. That's not the system. [[Murmurs.]] Then put down the masks then. But, please, let's be a little serious about seven issues; I want a little serious about this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please let the House services pick up that document... that they do the appropriate processing. Please! It must be a little more... [[Murmurs.]] Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u50	Mrs Pontón, I come here to defend democracy, I come here to defend Parliament, I come here to defend the Constitution. Do you think defending the Constitution is insulting the debate? I come here to defend the Statute of autonomy of Galicia, which you never wanted to subscribe to and which only do so as a legal imperative. I come here to defend the Spanish Transition. I come here to defend them and I am proud to be a son of that transition and of that democracy. And I am proud to be able to vote on the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government, and to be able to vote on it every four years. So I'm not here to praise anything, I'm just here to defend the honorability of this parliament. Mrs Pontón, we will be very interested in this proposal. We know your electoral program; this is the proposal for the electoral program of the BNG. Yes, Your Honor. We've read it. I'm told by the colleagues that these forty-seven proposals, the BNG program, and fourteen... we're going to read it with a lot of interest. But why should we create the Reactivation Commission? Did the Reactivation Commission not create it to make the proposals for exit to the economic crisis consensual? Why don't you take this to the Reactivation Commission? Do you need to take a picture of yourself with me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no problem, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] I am delighted that you come to this place, because I remember that when you came to this place by nationalism you didn't come to deliver documents, you came to other things, even to crash at it. Yes, yes, it's in the Journal of Sessions and each one has his own political biography, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] Unfortunately, Mrs Pontón, you should break up with these parties who don't even condemn terrorism. Do it; do it a favor. And if they don't leave him in the BNG, it doesn't matter, sometimes you can disagree with a party. Do you agree with the statement signed yesterday by the Member of the BNG in the Congress of Deputies, in which it says that the Spanish Constitution is a regime and that the 23-F was an ordered and orchestrated falsity by the State? Is this really what you think today doesn't deserve to be debated in this chamber? In relation to the pandemic, look, Your Honor: this is the definitive graph of the pandemic, which are the people who die in each autonomous community. [[Mr. Nuñez Feijó showed the House a chart.]] I will never forget the pandemic that touched us to manage alone, without any support from the BNG, all against, absolutely against; even they wanted to vote when they couldn't and they didn't vote when they could. But, Your Honor, this mortality rate believes that Galicia, along with Balearics and Canary Islands, is the first autonomous community in all of Spain Peninsular with less mortality per 100,000 inhabitants, being one of the largest population age. And he believes, for example, that today, which we know of pandemic cases, we have 67% less infected than during peak, and the seven-day rate has dropped by 427%. Is it true that we would need to make a compromised escalation so that we could keep up with this old man? You talk about vaccines, and I've listened with great interest, and I've read the interview you did in the voice of Galicia. He says, on the one hand, that there are no vaccines, that we agree, and on the other hand, then he says the problem with Sergas is that he has no people to vaccinate. But what are we left with, Mrs. Pontón? One hundred thousand vaccines a day could be dispensed in the Galego Health Service. Look, Mrs. Pontón, I'm sorry about this independent BNG drift. No, I know I laugh because there are members of the BNG who have always been independent, but I know many Members of the BNG who were not, who were nationalists, but not independent. [[Laughter]] And now you're nothing but here inventing BNG. BNG has been invented for a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u52	The problem with BNG is that it no longer exists; there is now UPG, which is different from BNG. Yes, ladies. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u53	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u54	The story will recognize exactly the position of everyone. A BNG spokesperson has never been and never a BNG spokesperson has done what you do or, at least, consents. Look, if you want to talk about Galicia, we're at your disposal. If you want to impose your election program, that's what the Greeks won't allow; six months ago they told you no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, therefore, if you want to pick up the proposals in the Reactivation Committee, we are at a permanent disposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u55	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u56	But come here to teach lessons in democracy and to defend Galicia with partners from Bildu and the Republican Left, you will understand that neither this or any president of the Union will accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u57	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u58	...to give him lessons to defend Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u59	Thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u60	...from a partner political party of Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u61	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u62	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u63	Thank you. We continue with the agenda, in this case, non-legislative proposals. Non-law proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on Navantia shipyards in the Ferrol River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u64	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales and another amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u65	Mr Tellado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. As we promised, as we promised, today we bring to this plenary an initiative calling on the Government of Spain to build a bridge ship on the shipyards of the Ferrol River. Once again we demand immediate workload for rail yards, public yards, state yards, Sepi dependents, dependents of the Government of Spain. We demand a burden of work to guarantee the future for the workers and also the future for a whole region. And we do it because the situation in Ferrolterra is a limited situation; we do it because the situation in our region is a dramatic situation. Ferrol has lost nearly 30,000 inhabitants in the last forty years; it is the only city in Spain that has lost one third of its population in the last forty years. Ferrol is the city with the highest rate in Galicia. Ferrol is the city with the lowest rates of activity and employment in Galicia. In the city of Ferrol, since July 2019 alone, we have estimated a thousand more stops, people with names and surnames, people with family, people with a life plan. These 200 unemployed over the last year and a half can add up to another seven hundred unemployed if we don't do anything; they can add up to another seven hundred unemployed if the Government of Spain does nothing. Today we are here to speak with all the cruelty of such a crusader reality as the one that is crossing Ferrolterra for the abandonment of the Government of Spain. This parliamentary group will bring this initiative on a regular basis for its debate, and we will continue to do so every month, in plenary and also in committee, until the Socialist Party takes the floor, until the Socialist Party learns. And I warn you, it won't be enough for you to change your vote in this chamber, it won't be enough for you to change your position and vote in favour today. They won't get rid of us so easily. We won't accept them voting in favour here and voting against in Madrid. Because we know that political hypocrisy is something that comes to you. And I'm telling you more: it won't be enough for them to vote in favour here and vote in favour of Madrid too. We will continue to present this initiative every month, in full and commission, in Ferrol, in Santiago and in Madrid, until the Government of Spain takes charge of the ship that needs the public shipyards of the Ferrol River. [[Applause]] It's very easy, ladies and gentlemen: if you have any political weight, I ask the Government of your party to resolve it at the next Council of Ministers on Tuesday; it's that simple. We only need political will. The future of the district of Ferrol depends only on its party, the Socialist Party, from the government of Spain, from the government of Pedro Sánchez, to have political will and to make a decision, to adopt an agreement at the Council of Ministers on which a ship is to be commissioned. Seven hundred jobs are at stake right now, they're in the air; seven hundred contracts about to expire; seven hundred workers of the assistants who might be on the street within four or five weeks. If the Government of Spain does nothing, they'll be on the street within four or five weeks. Assistants who used to be involved in the maintenance of the bridge thermal power plant, by the way. That center that you, the socialists, from the Spanish government, ordered you, the socialists, from the Spanish government, to close. For our part, we're going to follow the workers' side the way we've always been. That's why since the Galician People's Party we're going to support this comarcal strike of March 10, a strike driven by the municipalities of the whole county of Ferrolterra and the social agents of the district. I've said it in this chamber on several occasions: every time the Socialist Party governs in Spain, Ferrol goes wrong; every time he governs the Socialist Party in Spain, Ferrol is ill. To talk about socialist government is to talk about the crisis for Ferrolterra. Ship conversions, industrial diversification that never diversified anything, dismantling, dismissals are synonymous with socialism in the region of Ferrolterra. And that's why Ferrol can't go with empty sighs of content, with promises, with plans, because that trick no longer hangs. Ferrol can only go with certainty. In the general budgets of the State of 2018, approved by the Government Rajoy a week before the motion of censure, 250 million euros were allocated to start the construction work of the F-110 frigate series. A project that was born in 2014 and that the Spanish Navy and Navantia develop hand-to-hand designing war technology from the 21st century. It's five frigates with an investment of four billion euros. It's about developing a ship called to replace the F-100 frigate series and put on the naval market a model of ship attractive not only to the Spanish Navy but to other armies from allied countries. A project that was believed to be an occupation for seven thousand workers over the next ten years. However, the Socialist Party came to the government by the hand of Mr. Pedro Sánchez and ordered to stop. This budget item provided for in the 2018 budgets was not implemented, it was not implemented in 2018, 2019, 2020, nor are they expected to be implemented in 2021, because the sheet cut is not planned until the year 2022. These delays are just occurring when the shipyards are finishing the construction of the second ship for the Australian Navy. These delays in the F-110 take place after the Socialist Government has lost the contract for the construction of ten frigates for the United States Navy; an opportunity that represents more than five billion euros of billing for public shipyards. In 2019, and in the face of the accumulated delays of the F-110 frigates, we proposed in this very chamber the construction of a BAM to burden the rail yards with work. The BAM is perfectly designed, there are plans, and you just have to get the steel to start its construction. The engineering work is done perfectly. A BAM which, in addition, is a ship that needed the Spanish Navy. The People's Parliamentary Group has brought this Parliament an initiative in which it called for the construction of that ship. Who voted in favour? Galician Nationalist Block and Galician People's Party. Who abstained? PSdEG-PSOE. What did the PSdEG-PSOE argue at that time? The ship didn't need it, the Spanish Navy didn't need it; that's what ordered Minister Margarita Robles to argue. The PSdeG explained that the Ministry of Defence didn't need that ship. What happened next? That the Spanish Navy, the Ministry of Defence, the Socialist Government of Spain charged that same ship four months later on the southern shipyards in Cadiz. Oh, that's all right. The socialist government punished Galicia, and the PSdEG PSOE was complicit in that punishment, looked elsewhere and justified its decision. We're talking about a ship that has an budget of one hundred sixty-seven million euros and more than one million hours of workload. I'd be able to avoid those planned redundancies for the next few weeks. But at that time, a few months ago, the PSOE said no, the PSdeG shut up, and again the interests of the district of Ferrolterra were betrayed. And the Knight? Knight, chiton. What is clear is what the PSOE Government is condemning the future of Ferrol, condemning the future of a sector, condemning a whole region. And to this criticism I also have to add the complicity of the Galego Nationalist Block, because Mrs. Pontón recognized it, and they made Pedro Sánchez president. So BNG -- although I'm waiting for your vote in favor -- also has a degree of responsibility. But who can solve this question is the Socialist Government, if you want to solve this question, and you can do it next Tuesday. It's that simple. We will continue to defend the naval sector, we will continue to demand a future for Ferrol, first, because we are from Ferrol and, second, because it is fair. We don't care that the people of our country are out of work, and I'm speaking on behalf of José Manuel Rey and the vice president of this Diego Calvo parliament. It doesn't matter to us that the district of Ferrol has no workload, because it affects us what happens in the region, because we will continue to live the rest of our lives in that region, looking into the eyes of our neighbors, the children of our neighbors and the grandchildren of our neighbors. So we want to be useful. And Ferrol what he needs at this very moment is to listen to the voice of mayors and municipal corporations throughout the region, to hear the voice of social and economic agents, of the county of Ferrolterra. So you can't go to the protests claiming the future and in the afternoon don't present the necessary papers for the Council of Ministers on Tuesday to approve that ship and take care of that ship that our county needs. We will not accept the political incoherence of the Socialist Party, which in Ferrol votes in favour, in Santiago abstaining and in Madrid votes against. That political cynicism, we are going to denounce it permanently. That is why the three Members of Ferrol, from the county of Ferrolterra, have recorded more than twenty initiatives. We'll bring them here in the county councils and also in the Congress of Deputies. And we're not going to give in to our pressure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u68	...as the Government of Spain takes charge of that ship that Ferrol deserves, that Ferrol needs and that, of course, must be an obligation of all governments. We present a very simple initiative, an initiative as simple as effective. We want to require the Government of Spain, through the Ministry of Defence, to commission the shipyards of Navantia in Ferrol the construction of a BAM, a ship of maritime action...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u69	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u70	...to the Spanish Navy. And we claim from the Chamber the same unanimity that exists in the districts of Ferrolterra, O Eume and Ortegal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, there was one of my predecessors in this chamber who said that Mr. Made him lie with the same nature that he breathes with. And I can only agree with that statement. You, the truth, lie more than Mr. Feijóo, but you lack any kind of naturality when you do. Mr. PP, you make this initiative a criticism as fierce as set out in the actions of the Government of the State, which goes in line with your favorite story: the one of a central government that goes against Galicia; a bit like the bad one of James Bond's films. I mean, Pedro Sánchez would be a hybrid between Doctor No and Goldfinger, who, as the voice section of Galicia's PP repeats machaconically, since he came to power, would try to destroy the Welsh industry, closing The Bridges and Meirama -- today he has forgotten Meirama -- Alcoa -- he has also forgotten -- the conservation sector, which you also systematically say is going to close the central government. It's an account that integrates some of the principles of propaganda that Joseph Goebbels so well developed, such as the maximal simplification of the story and the persistent and machaconic search of an outside enemy. A little what the philosopher and national essay prize José Luis Pardo said in his book Studies of malaise: "align a good enemy", which was at last the greatest political contribution of the nacismist's lawyer Carl Schmitt, much loved and admired by the founder of his party Don Manuel Fraga, and who knew, by the way, very well the streets of Santiago, so I wouldn't be surprised that his spirit was going around here with the opposite spirit of Isaac Díaz Pardo, who presides this room in the form of a wall. What you are unable to solve is a basic problem of your account. Why absurdly would the President of Government Pedro Sánchez, who is a renowned economist, want to harm the Welsh industry, when he obviously knows as economist that the prejudice of the Greek industry is at the expense of the state as a whole and also of the tax and employment collection? I mean, what are the causes of this supposed external conspiracy against Galicia that you've been seeing everywhere for two and a half years, just like nationalism has been doing for decades? The fact is that the Government did not cause either by action or by default the situation of the Bridges to which you referred, which is a market issue derived from the huge increase in the cost of CO2 emission rights market; a European market which invented or at least contributed to inventing its Euro MP Arias Cañete, years before Sánchez was president, and which increased from EUR 8 per tonne in 2018 to EUR 25 per tonne in 2019. And, as the workers know and recognize Endesa's managers, that and not the other was the reason The Bridges had been out of the market. Nothing to do with any central government council, which, on the contrary, is forcing the company to do all the tests in the world to keep the power plant running and putting on top of the fair transition plan table. And it is absolutely proclive to meet those projects that arrive from Galicia to opt for Next Generation funds; projects of which, by the way, today, this parliament does not know everything at all, exactly the same as the Greek civil society. The situation in the naval sector is extremely complicated -- as you know perfectly well -- for reasons totally alien to any government, whether the state or the autonomics. It was already very complicated before the pandemic, and after the pandemic it is much more complicated still by the fall of maritime transport of goods and passengers, by economic uncertainty, which makes orders drastically reduced, by falling the sum of the naval recruitment, including military and civilian, 97% in Europe, 42% in China, 71% in Japan and 55% in Korea, by setting some examples. Yesterday, information from Faro de Vigo pointed out that: "The coward extends the European naval. Fifteen thousand fewer jobs and requests at 1990 levels". And if the naval is like this, the military naval is equal to evil or worse. All countries see their financial capacities reduced as a result of the pandemic. And who has to disburse about 20 percent of their GDP in a year to alleviate the effects of a pandemic is obviously not thinking about building military ships, but wait a few years, and then you'll see. That's the international situation on the shipbuilding market. And since the ships are taking care of long in advance, the effects of the pandemic for the naval are not yet being noticed in all its extension. These will be even more intense as this year progresses and what comes next. This is the general panorama, certainly a desolation. But what is the specific panorama of Navantia? Let's start with the situation you left Navantia when you changed the state government in 2018. At that time Navantia was with numbers so red that, in fact, it was in "cause of dissolution," which, for those who don't know, is as the current law calls the old breakdown situation, with the particularity that, being a state company, year after year, the state injected capital, a lot of capital!, the reason of two hundred million euros per year on average. And that's why the Galician Digital Economy newspaper called on September 22, 2018, which the state sent eight hundred million in four years to support Navantia, and pointed out that in 2017 Navantia recorded the greatest losses in its history: 297 million euros. In December 2018, to deal with this breakdown situation in which the former Government left Navantia, the current Government signed the 2018-2022 Strategic Plan according to the workers' representatives, with the aim of achieving the viability of the company, maintaining activity in all centres, modernizing processes and adapting the company to the needs of the market. Parallel to that Strategic Plan, construction of the F-110 frigates to Ferrol has been helped. An investment of EUR 4,325 million that will guarantee a workload for years; the largest industrial investment in Galician history, which the current government has taken out of the drawer in which Rajoy's Government has put it, for a matter of missiles you know very well. And, by setting just one example, El Correo Gallego, which is not a social-communist or Bolivarian medium, summed up in November 2018 as follows: "The Government admits that Morenés slowed down the F-110 Ferrol by personal interest." He was subtitling: "The Correo has already advanced in 2013 and 2014 the movements of the ex-Minister to favor their companies, with prejudice to Navantia." [[Mr. Orange Fernández shows the House a photocopy.]] The Galician Mail! There were many others, but I put the post to him because they're not going to say he's social-communist or Bolivarian. So what left seven years of PP governments in Spain for the Galician naval was a Navantia in an insolvency situation, maintained and artificially alive through annual state capital injections, a project of frigate delayed by the spure and personal interests of a PP minister. It's the so-called "Pemex case," which is summed up in Mr. Feijóo announcing before an election that Pemex was going to build twenty-two ships in Galicia, which were then left in two, and that he was going to lay a logistics base for all of Europe -- he said -- in Punta Langosteira, of which there was never anything more known. In case, by the way, he's being investigated in Mexico and he's, by the way, keeping Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Emilio Lozoya, in a Mexican prison after being extradited from Spain in the framework of a judicial investigation that includes operations with Galicia which has so much publicized Mr. Feijóo. And it's not hard to understand that the extremely delicate situation that Navantia was going through when the current government of the state arrived is now more difficult than ever by the strong and enormous economic crisis that goes through our country and the tremendously difficult situation that goes through the public archives. What the PSdeG proposes, and what we continue to ask for and we will continue to ask, and holding meetings and doing politics, working in Madrid or here, is to keep employment on Ferrol shipyards, commercially betting and by the modernization of Navantia in Galicia, and asking for workload -- yes, of course! -- until the start of the work of the F-110, including the process of modernization and construction of the dry dam, as well as bet on Navantia's capabilities to compete in the wind market and in the machining. What we ask of the Union is that it involves itself, that it does not bet on the "thing worse, better", which seems to have been installed since the change of government, which exercises its competences in industrial policy and economic promotion, which it has all, and can do much more with them than it has done in the past eleven years, especially in Ferrolterra. On that line will go our amendment, which we hope you will accept. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u74	Good morning to all and to all. The People's Party presents an initiative calling for the construction in Navantia Ría de Ferrol of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy. Just as I announced in commission and then in press, they're going to claim a ship's commission every month. I remember I saw it on the TVG -- I'd miss it more! -- as the three members of the People's Party Ferrol walked through the corridors of Parliament to go to the Registry office and present the initiative. I remember -- I have to admit -- I thought: what a great job!, they came out of their offices, they registered the initiative, probably in five minutes they were back. What professionals! They've already solved Ferrol's problem! Another of these initiatives brought by the People's Party, which I don't know if they're called cosmetics or ghosts, which don't involve effort, which doesn't cost them, and with a little luck there might be someone who thinks they're doing something for people. Just like the initiative they brought to the last plenary where they asked for support for Siemens Gamesa's staff; a staff who voted in favour of layoffs this Saturday. Yes, they accepted ERE. The company offered a sum of money above the legal minimums, about three times as much as twenty days a year, and the staff preferred the bird in hand. They didn't have much confidence in being able to win the company's pulse and keep their jobs, which it denotes, by the way, very little confidence in governments. In other words, Siemens Gamesa's staff felt abandoned. And they didn't cheat because, despite the popular party's theatrical efforts to hide the obvious, the factory basically shuts down for two reasons: [[Applause]] The first is because the work reform that approved the PP in 2012 allows the factory to be closed without government authorization. Why? Because the People's Party doesn't like to impose obligations on companies. And the second reason, because Siemens Gamesa doesn't need to produce in Galicia in order to be able to do business in Galicia. Why? [[Applause]] Because the People's Party doesn't like to impose obligations on companies. Let them do what they want, rule them. Yes, they brought an initiative to Parliament for support; an empty support of content, without effort, without cost. Just like a BAM's request for Navantia Ría de Ferrol. Another cosmetic initiative, which would never start before the frigates are planned to begin. And you've already set, why not a bigger ship? Why not a civilian ship? No, that's getting into eleven-barved shirts. Since 2010, when the Galician Naval Sector Development Act was passed, it is not known how many times it has been approved in this parliament that the Union asks for or negotiates its entry into the Navantian Board of Directors. The last one this month, again due to BNG instances. In the same way -- it's old too -- the joint's commitment to support, even financially, the establishment of a repair centre in the Ferrol River. Look at this: financial support! What's left and where's this engagement? But these initiatives, which, if they had practical consequences for the sector, for employment and for Ferrol, are systematically left to nothing, are not executed; the People's Party does not execute them. This is the level of commitment of the People's Party to the naval sector in the Ferrol River, that is, cosmetic. BNG today brings the debate to an amendment, which we hope will be accepted by the People's Party and supported by the PSOE, to protect a sector of activity, that of the floating marine wind. A promising sector that, according to all experts, will have a huge demand in Europe, as well as to occupy Fene facilities, installations in outer ports and many metal companies all over Galicia. An activity that needs a unanimous and firm statement from this parliament, as well as actions decided by the Galician Union, because the plan of the Navantia leadership is to renounce it, at least in the Ferrol River. If nothing prevents it, in early March, Navantia's management will approve investments in Fene to adapt the facilities to the needs of a contract to provide monopiles to Iberdrola for five years. A contract that actually means giving up the floater wind, to dedicate itself to the construction of very simple cylindrical structures, and with the possibility of rebotting certain welding jobs, with which the level of employment they generate is very low, although, by their dimensions and by the number of requests, they probably occupy a lot of space in the center, with which they completely limit any other activity. In addition, it reduces its participation in the UTE with Windar from 70% that it had in current contracts at 8% in this monopillar contract, with the loss of control over subcontracting of companies and working conditions. Bad news for the workers and the workers, but also for the comarca companies, who have already expressed their concern to me. Windar is known to fail, among other things, the minimum percentages of indefinite staff and also to work with subcontracts that bring people from Asturias, Portugal or Andalusia. In other words, Navantia refuses to participate in the floating marine wind, but exclusively in the Ferrol River, since in principle nothing will prevent you from meeting that great demand for floating platforms that are expected to exist from the Cadiz centers. SEPI and Navantia are deeply involved in their policy of reducing activities and dimensions in the center of the Ferrol River. And that's what we have to prevent: that policy of restricting Navantia and Ferrol's hive to military construction, without alternatives, because it's the one that causes every few years to evict all the personnel of the industry helping unemployment. And in this way it's not possible to fix population in the region, but it's also impossible to guarantee a viable and solvent industrial project. That is, while there are productive restrictions in the Ferrol River, there will be job losses, there will be financial imbalances and there will be the risk of disappearance of the Ferrol River sector by closure, absorption or integration into a transnational project. So, to end this amendment, we call for your support in defending a sector of future activity. What is so much to say in the defence of diversification of activities in Navantia Ría de Ferrol, in the defence of employment and working conditions and in the defence of the sector. We know that the People's Party shares with the PSOE that Navantia Ferrol must be a exclusively military shipyard, and we know that Windar is also a friend company of the People's Party. But this plan, in particular, to renounce the floating marine wind wind, is totally contradictory with its speeches to make renewable energies the industrial engine of economic recovery, because this plan is actually going to throw aside any advantage position that Galicia could currently have in this sector; a luxury that neither Galicia nor the county of Ferrol can afford. We insist on the call we've seen every time we have occasion to abandon these loyalty once and for all to an absolutely suicidal business model, those loyalty to those conversion agreements that have already passed. We're on another screen, we need powerful industrial sectors with economic drag capacity, and the naval sector is one of the most qualified to play that role. But -- we insist -- the corse of military construction can drown the sector, which needs to diversify as much as breathing. Quit cosmetics, stop makeup your policies to make them more presentable. Change the policies! And we also call for urgent implementation of the latest agreements made in this parliament by the bodies of the BNG: to request entry into the Navantia Board of Directors, to set up a table with the Government of the State for the diversification of activities in the yard and to demand for the adjudication and initiation of the transformation of the Ministry of Defence's vessel for the transport of troops and vehicles in Galicia. We insist: they are agreements already adopted by this parliament pending execution by the Union. They don't delay, the work of a lot of people depends on it. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u75	Thank you, Mr. Fernández, for your intervention and your work. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u76	Well, after checking that the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Party return to the nest of love, let's talk about the important thing. [[Murmurs.]] And here are people who are going to lose their jobs in the next few weeks and there's a government in Spain, who depends on the public naval sector of the Ferrol River, who's in their hands to solve it and won't solve it. [[Murmurs.]] That is the summary of Mr Arunguena's entire speech. [[Applause]] Believe me, Mr. Aranguena, that you have a lot more like Vox than I do; that's the reality. And I think you're the best representative of the Vox sector of the Socialist Party. If you're told to talk about the naval sector in this gallery and not the voicer in Industry, we have to start worrying about it; we're getting out of this much more concerned debate. Moreover, it is only after hearing that Pedro Sánchez is a well-known economist, for it is obvious that he is not true. No one believes that in Spain, only you. And it's true that what becomes clear is that you're inside that strategy of saving Private Ryan, which in this case is saving Private Knight. We have to do the ball in Madrid, it's not gonna be that they're taking us to Gonzalo Caballero, as they've already published some medium. That's what worries you. You had to go to China to explain why the Government of Spain doesn't charge a boat on the shipyards of the Ferrol River. And it went to China to find an explanation. This is PdG-PSOE. You should be ashamed of them! Don't go with these arguments to Ferrol because they run him to the throats, they run him to the throats! Look: they assume their responsibility, because they have been ruling in Spain since June 2018, and we're in February 2021. [[Murmurs.]] So everything that happens in the public sector of the naval sector, in the public sector on the Navantia shipyards, depends on political decisions of the Government of Spain. And this is a problem that is solved not in China, but in the Council of Ministers next Tuesday. So you assume your responsibility, your party's responsibility, your government's responsibility in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, of course we support the marine wind sector! It's just that we always do. It's more: the ones we bet by the marine wind in the Ferrol River were a Government of the People's Party upon reopening Astano in 2015, after a productive veto, a punishment of the Socialist Party, which closed Astano to conventional civil construction for a long time. [[Applause]] Or don't you remember? Of course you do! No, no, no, it was the Socialist Party, first, in the 1980s, and then in the early years of this century. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the reality, as much as you intend to turn it around. Of course we bet on the marine wind! We are in favour of civil construction without renouncing military construction. What we know to do in Ferrol is warships, so much that it bothers you to work for the Spanish Navy. That's what we've been doing for centuries; that's reality. Once upon a time, Ideological questions come up. But do you think that's what anyone believes in Ferrol? But do you think you can go to Ferrol and say we want to build civilian ships? But Europe, the whole of Europe, has been excluded from this sector for a long time, we cannot compete in that sector. We competed perfectly in the military with a tradition and a now how that is indisputable. So they stop getting dizzy about this civilian and military thing. Of course you can make a BAM, and that's the solution for seven hundred families. And the Galician Nationalist Block knows it, the Socialist Party knows it, and the Galician People's Party knows it. What's going on? That we are claiming what Ferrolterra deserves, and you come here to make the Socialist Party palangans. It's not going to be that they put pacts at risk in councils and deputies. You care about Galicia zero, you care about Galicia nothing. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course there was a punishment of the Socialist Party of the district of Ferrolterra! Look: the thermal power station of the Bridges sent him to shut down a socialist government. He shut down the Socialist Government at the bridge center. How? Through the tax route, rising taxes on the production of electricity through coal, and advanced the closure of the thermal power plants scheduled for 2035 to 2020. And then, then: why are other thermal power stations in all of Europe operating, and some even starting to work now? But what's that lie? Mr. Orange, really, don't lie. They shut down the thermal power plant at the Bridges, which made an investment to continue producing, and you shut it down. If you don't fall in shame! Because you were able to avoid the closure of Siemens Gamesa through the Ministry of Labour, and they didn't do anything, they didn't do anything at all. That's the reality. You're responsible for closing the bridge thermal power station, leaving the port of Ferrol without traffic; you're responsible for the situation of Galicia's electrointensive industry, and you're responsible for Siemens Games throwing the lock. That's a responsibility the Socialist Party has on its back. [[Murmurs.]] And there the BNG prefers to look somewhere else...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u78	...and not to support the People's Party. We present an initiative on this particular issue so concrete that we are not willing to accept any amendments. We'll talk about your amendments in any other debate, but today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u79	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u80	...we want to discuss the boat, see if the PSOE votes in Ferrol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u82	...and Madrid continues to vote against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u83	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u84	...and denying the future to a whole region.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u86	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u87	We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in connection with the allocation of the European Union's covered fund for the reactivation Next Generation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u88	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u89	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. As your lords know, today is Rosaly Day, and in this month of February it is also celebrated the twenty-fiveth anniversary of Lois Pereiro's passing. And I was actually thinking of starting this intervention with a quote from some of these two references in our history and in our literature. But in the end, the subject of the initiative made me choose an appointment -- by saying it somehow -- a little bit more prosaic. So I'm going to quote the secretary general of this chamber party, absent at this moment, that on February 13 we were delighted with statements and a video on social networks that seemed better suited to a candidate for Master Mateo than a serious political debate. But he said, "From the PPdeG we regret that the Nationalist Block Galego is now beginning, advanced in February, to worry about some funds where the Board has been working since the middle of last year." At the same time, we are not surprised that there is a member of this House who aspires to be the Goebbels of the People's Party. We're used to it. But, of course, it is false that because a lie repeats itself a thousand times it becomes true, and that it is attributed to this historical character. Because, of course, the People's Party has the ability to manipulate TVG, but it does not have the ability to manipulate and twist what is left in the logbooks and what is also left in the history of this parliament. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And once again the fallacy falls on its own. And we bring an initiative from the Galician Nationalist Block to talk about something as important to our country as European funds. We have taken initiatives, we have taken initiatives and we will bring initiatives on this issue, from which we believe that its outcome will be key to our future. And even though the People's Party seems to have no scruples in going up this rostrum or talking from the stage and denying this reality, because the hemerotheque is there and puts everyone in their place. And I wanted to do one more look at our recent history from this gallery: The legislation began, in the investment debate Ana Pontón makes an offer to Núñez Feijóo on this issue for a country agreement. The People's Party is looking elsewhere. Six October, we propose for the first time in this Chamber a specific presentation to reach a political consensus on this issue. The People's Party vetoes this proposal. October 14th, we insisted on commission, and we only received vagueities. On 11 November, they veto another proposal in this plenary on the criteria for distribution. The apology has already gone out again this morning to the collation: this Reactivation Commission, which in theory will solve absolutely everything. But what happened in the Reactivation Committee? We had two -- not just one -- two press rounds of the Vice President Economic Board of Galicia where he gave us no more information than the one that appears in the press headlines and the U.S. Government press notes. We had representatives of all kinds, of all colors, who insisted that it was a mistake to exclude Parliament and the opposition to this debate. What did the People's Party do? Continue in the same line of pride, obscurantism and unilaterality. What did the Galician Nationalist Block do? So be responsible and keep bringing concrete proposals to this chamber. Twenty-six November, Ana Pontón again asks Feijóo to turn off the phone, to call the party leaders in front of the worrying central government's recentralizing offensive. What happened? The People's Party didn't get the glove. The central government went ahead with the approval of that Royal Decree 36/2020, which will bring us many problems. What did the People's Party do? Then continue with your frenzy of ads. Tenth of December, Ana Pontón insists on the question to the president to put this question on the table, to hold his hand. Once again, Nuñez Feijóo responds with an attitude of contempt, authoritarianism and hair-grabbing not only to this opposition but to this parliament. And we continue to insist: twenty-two December, a third non-legislative proposal which is being debated in this plenary to reach agreement on transparency and criteria. And also in the context of the budgetary debate, because we have insisted from the BNG and we have proposed that the Socialist Party and the People's Party arrive at points of agreement on the accounts that Galicia should receive at that first stage where resources were already being transferred to the communities. Not a success. Since then, more popular party propaganda, and they've even said again and again that they're against recentralization. But what happens? You forget them when they're going to Madrid to negotiate with Mr. Sánchez. We saw this shocking failure of January 29, this year, we don't know if it was -- as it was in the previous debate -- to make Pablo Casado's palanganero or to make Pedro Sánchez' palanganero. But the question is so shocking -- and here I have the joint press releases and the Moncloa press release -- it doesn't even seem to be on the table the management of European funds. I mean, here in the German Parliament, the president of the board dares to tell us even what it is or what it is not the BNG. Here the People's Party seems to be competing to choose to enter the Galego Nationalist Block, putting on the Galician shirt and the nationalist shirt. But at the time of truth Madrid won't defend the interests of this country. We don't know if Mr. Feijóo was busy choosing furniture for the new seat of the People's Party; but of course, what is clear is that the recentralization of funds was not on the table and that there was no attitude on the part of this government would be to defend a different management. We saw it 15 days ago in the question to the president of the Galician Union, that Ana Pontón focused on the funds Next Generation, and in which he once again received an attitude of disqualification and gristration from the president of the Union, when what the Greeks and the Greeks need at this time are proposed for the future. Today we see more of the same, and sectorally, neither does propaganda support. We saw an example last week, when our fishing spokesman, Mrs Pérez, in committee, asked the Greek Government for a roadmap in this regard on a strategic sector such as fishing. And the government couldn't explain anything concrete, because we have a government that can't answer because we're very afraid there's no roadmap, that's the question. And paraphrasing Castelao, because the story is no longer sad, it's very serious. This matter is transcendent to our country, and we bring it back to debate in the face of the lack of strategy and transparency of the Galician Union. And we want to insist once again on that lack of transparency, because the weeks pass, the months pass, and the only thing we have on the side of the Galician Union is a pseudopower point within which generalities advance. In fact, we're also surprised that after that meeting in Sánchez, the projects are already magically reduced; we're going from zero to one hundred eight, and now we're one hundred eight to five, which aren't even the five initials. There's a surprise here every day. And the question you have to ask yourself in this chamber is, if any German or Galician knows and can see a document of more than 200 pages of the Navarro Government about which is Navarra's road map -- and we could put more examples -- why don't we know anything about the Greek Government and its road map? What are they hiding? Because the most worrying thing is that the more we know, the more you hear, the more you see it's a back-to-back approach to our country's needs. And we insist again that we believe that more transparency is necessary, that it is also necessary to shed light on a model that needs to be changed, that we cannot allow these European funds to be the model of the looting of Ibex 35, but we must encourage it to be the model of the ransom of pemes and our economy. We understand that this is the time to lay the foundation for a new economic and social model of development in the coming decades, which we have to undertake very important structural transformations in the medium and long term in the field of technology, social, health, cultural and environmental. And, of course, we want this to be an opportunity to lay the foundations of a future Galician, a Galician that is ecological, scientific, social and also feminist. So that's what leads us to bring back to this parliament three key issues that are purely logical: First of all, forward immediately -- we propose that it be within three days -- all the documentation that exists on this issue. It is not acceptable that this parliament does not know the issues which have been referred by the Union to the Central Government. This parliamentary group has more than ten letters, nine registered, which are being blocked and those that are not provided with information. Secondly, we appeal to a change in strategy. It is essential to negotiate the defence of the powers of this country, especially those of the exclusive ones, and, of course, to send a powerful message in this direction to the Central Government. And finally, bet on dialogue and debate. We insist that there be a specific presentation on this issue, that no longer appeal to the Reactivation Commission as the eternal hope. We're going to work there on the dictates, we're going to make proposals, but there are, of course, issues about European areas that can't wait and that we're setting ourselves up as a solitary trap, if we think so. We have raised questions about the criteria that concern us. We understand that this cannot be the 100 percent aspiration of Parliament, that what comes out of this parliament does not meet our expectations, but, at least, that it comes out of a democratic process, an open process, a dialogue process, which, of course, aspires to have a defined strategy, and it does not look to the other side of the People's Party, which is leading us directly to failure. So these are the issues that once again, with responsibility and political responsibility, the Galician Nationalist Block puts on the table and goes on to put, likes or dislikes the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u92	Thank you, President. Good morning to all the Members and to all the Members. Indeed, this is an initiative that has been debated over the last few months in this chamber. I recognize that the BNG has brought this initiative to this chamber, even repeatedly, because it is practically identical to others who have been debated in this parliament. The PSdEG, of course, has a position in this also public, known, repeated. I think here we should know what these funds are about. I think everyone knows what these funds are going about, but it's convenient from time to time to turn this around. A few days ago the regulation was published at European level regulating how these funds are implemented. A regulation which gave continuity to another type of regulation adopted by the Commission, such as the December instrument where the objectives already agreed between Parliament and the Commission itself were set. A regulation that marks us in the face of a very complex process in the design of projects and in the design, execution and evaluation and control that will necessarily be carried out through the State institutions and also the Community institutions. A regulation that marks the lines of action and the basic pillars of the European funds, which have to do with the ecological transition, with the digital transformation, with the social and territorial cohesion, with the impulse to smart growth, with the resilience of the economy from the social, institutional and economic point of view, of course, and the establishment of new policies, of future policies, of new generation policies. They are fundamental pillars in defining the projects that must be carried out and which, therefore, must also be carried out in Galicia in accordance with these guidelines. These funds have exceptional magnitude, amazing magnitude, as far as they are concerned. But they have horizontal targets, which must be applied decisively to combat climate change, according to the sustainable development goals that mark the United Nations itself or even the 2030 Agenda, with the obvious objective of achieving climate neutrality. And it also points out that certain funds have to be allocated to this: 37% of the funds have to go to the ecological transformation, 20% of the funds to the digital transition, and the rest to the country's targets. The Spanish State has played a key role in defining not only the objectives that should guide the funds, but the economic weight that the Spanish State will have in receiving those funds. 18.66 % of the funds from the European Union as a whole will receive them in two ways: through non-refundable financial contributions, 80,000 million; 12,000 million already through the RECT-EU Fund, of which, in fact, the Council of Galicia has already set out in its budgets 430 million, according to absolutely objective criteria. These are the same criteria that allow Spain to receive funds: the impact of the pandemic on economic growth, therefore the impact of the pandemic on the Greek economy, the impact of the pandemic on our employment, the impact of the pandemic on youth unemployment. These REACT funds are added to the state as a whole about sixty billion financial contributions of immediate execution. Implementation in the year 2022, 70 %; execution in the year 2023, the rest, 30 %. And in conjunction with that, there's an option, indeed, to receive another seventy billion in loan terms, which is not initially on the table, is an optional question. Therefore, a good negotiation of the state. We have to congratulate the Government of Pedro Sánchez here, because he took advantage of the interests of the Spanish state as the Spanish state is one of the most affected by the impact of the pandemic. So these are the criteria that guide projects that will receive funds. We agree that in this definition of projects and, of course, at the reception of funds participates in our autonomous community, Galicia participates. We are absolutely in agreement. In fact, 58% of the funds will be executed territorially by the autonomous communities and local entities. We do not, of course, share any demonstration that has been made about the municipalities and the municipalities' participation in the execution of European funds. We believe that, indeed, the municipalities must participate and actively present projects that are capable and viable to receive European funds. But we also need to know that these funds are channelled through a national plan, a state plan, a state plan that must be sent to Europe by 30 April. And then we want to know what work Galicia has done, which has been done in Galicia. There are no autonomous applications in this, unfortunately; this goes another way. This goes from state plans, because these plans are linked to investments themselves, but they are also linked to reforms that the Spanish State has to carry out to receive these funds, linked to the fulfilment of fitos, linked to the fulfilment of qualitative and quantitative objectives, which will be monitored both by the Spanish public administrations as a whole and especially in the whole of Europe. So today, indeed, even though the funds are not disbursed from Europe, the ministries have already allocated 27 billion euros that are likely to be executed through the corresponding calls. And we also defend, and it must be so, that Galicia as an autonomous community negotiates with the State in a sectoral framework some kind of agreement that allows it to implement territorially in Galicia priority projects for this country. Just like we're defending him for the Town Councils. That is to say, there are negotiating frameworks in the state as a whole that will allow the Autonomous Community of Galicia to run projects in this case or even the Greek municipalities. We defend that and we will continue to defend it. What we want to know, and then we agree with the BNG, is that he's doing the Joint. The Galician Union is announcing us many issues, but in fact, in the end, all propaganda. We asked a long time ago, like the BNG, about those famous hundred and eight projects that the Galician Union had sent to Madrid. And we find that that one hundred and eight projects is nothing more than an Excel sheet, which does not exist, which is nothing, that there is absolutely nothing. And in this sense we appeal to the Council of Galicia for responsibility, for institutional responsibility. Because if we all know what this is about, and confronting the government of the state and practicing victimism, it won't help to define priority projects from Galicia, valid projects to develop our economy. We therefore ask the People's Party, in this case the Greek Parliament, as we have done over the past few months, to hold a presentation that will bring about a transfer to the whole of citizenship, political parties, trade unions, social agents, the university and councils of which are the projects that the Galician Union considers to be priority, and that it will allow others to make some kind of contribution in that direction as well. That's what we asked for. With regard to the BNG initiative, -- I insist -- we all respect the world, with all due respect to it, I say, there are issues that we cannot admit, there are issues that are beyond reality at our trial, because European funds don't do this. You speak here of 12,600 million, 12,400 million euros for Galicia, which means 18% of the initially 70,000 million, which are non-refundable financial contributions, when the Greek economy accounts for some less than 6% of the GDP of the state as a whole. You talk about issues such as bilateral negotiations with the state, you talk about issues such as the allocation of funds based on an autonomous funding criterion, when this is not going to happen. So, I think we all, from realism, from honesty, define exactly what we want for this country. And what we want for this country probably matches you. I don't want 12,000 million. I want 20 billion. But this is not the case, this is the fact that we are presenting projects as a country, as we define them, that meet the objectives that European institutions actually propose for the disbursement of funds, and that these projects ultimately contribute to the development of Galicia's economic activity and the transformation of the economic and social fabric, which is what these funds are actually designed for. We have an amendment, already known and, therefore, we have nothing to add. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u93	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u94	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Certainly, the BNG brings to the House today a debate of the utmost importance for Galicia. The good use of Community funds which the solidarity of the European Union gives us as a cause for the pandemic depends to a large extent on our future. And the European Union has approved a Recovery Plan, known as Next Generation, for 750,000 million euros, which are divided into different funds. The mechanism of recovery and enforcement resilience from 2021 to 2023 is 672 billion, and the REACT-EU is 12.400 million, also in that two-year period. But there are other funds, such as the fair transition, of 10,000 million by the year 2027. This is what we add up to the seventy-four million euros of the multiannual financial framework to about 1.8 billion euros in the period 2021-2027. Which is certainly an example of Europe that we believe must be; not the Europe of markets, but Europe of solidarity, which in this case helps -- as mentioned earlier -- in a way proportionate to the countries that demand it most. So what we have is to exercise our responsibility to be up to it. At the time that Spain entered the euro area, the country as a whole made a big mistake, which was not to take advantage of economic resources, which the fall in interest rates caused by the implementation of the euro, to invest in future projects, to improve the productivity of the economy, to reform our productive fabric. The great crisis of 2008 has particularly affected Spain for not being able to use these funds, which, for the cheap financing that led to the euro, had enabled the Spanish economy to be reformed. It was a mistake like a country, which invested in the brick until that bubble exploded. Now, our responsibility, since there are direct aids, is to invest well, precisely on the lines marked by Europe. First of all, by supporting sectors that suffer directly as a result of the pandemic, the closures, etc., viable sectors and companies that are suffering from the economic restrictions arising from health measures. And, of course, to use the resilience funds to apply them to the goals we already know of digitization, the environment, equality, improvement of public services. So we transform not only our productive fabric, but also our public sector. And we share with the Bloc, with the author of this initiative, the fears he expresses about a possible allocation of prejudice funds to Galicia. The history of the year 2020 is not good, because we received EUR 774 million from a total of €15 billion covered funds-2020. The target criteria that were selected gave us 4,8 % of the total background. We can compare this with the population, which is 5.7%. If we compare it, which is more accurate, with the adjusted population that is taken into account to finance public services, which were the ones that financed these funds, such as health, education or social services, because we would go to 6,6 %, and the figure of 4,8 % is well below. And we are also attending the same in the distribution of 2020-2021 funds this year. These objective criteria make it possible for the REACT-2020-2021 Galicia to receive 441 million euros, which is 4,4% of the total distribution. I insist: well below 5,7 % that would correspond directly to us per capita; by population, 6,6 %, depending on the system of autonomous financing. And this is important because if we receive 5.1%, which is the aggregated total of what is announced for the years 2020-2021, it turns out that in relation to a direct distribution per capita we are receiving 381 million euros of what would correspond to that allocation. And if we've incorporated those funds into autonomic funding, which is not exactly the best system -- although it's giving positive results -- as we've all discussed in this chamber, if we apply the relevant criteria in the autonomic financing system, then the difference is about a total of 1,915 million euros, which is quite important. But, of course, the responsibility of defending Galicia's interests is to demand clear and also justified criteria. I believe that part of the funds, as announced by the Government, we asked it to be for competitive competition. This demonstrates a lot of confidence in the country, by the way; the block in this case does not point to its criteria. But the truth is, in the GNP that we are debating today -- of which little has been said on the part of its proponent -- there are some contradictions that arise: First of all, in the explanatory statement, Galicia is said to account for EUR 12,600 million, and then for the GNP what it does in the operative part is to explain the criteria for which the total European funds should be shared. I say that if you want €12,600 million, you don't want the criteria that apply; you ask for €12,600 million, that four weeks later, by the way, they went up to 14,380 in the presentation made by Mrs Pontón of her next generation application program. But if we take the criteria that you are applying so that we are supposed to be touched by no less than 9%, if it is 12,600, or 10,2%, if it was 14,380 million euros out of the total of the millions of euros you are going to receive from Spain, because it turns out that, in addition to not being weighted, they don't say of the nine criteria that you include in the GNP what is the weight of each criterion, because it turns out that all individual criteria, apart from two, would be far from that 9% that you demand. Let me remind you: for GDP, for GDP, for GDP inverse per capita, -- point 1 -- it would be 5.8%, not 9%; for unemployment rate, 4.2%; for activity rate, if we look at the occupied population, 5.6%, and 5.4% if we look at the number of assets. If it is the inverse productivity of the working factor, it would be 6.1 %. If it is by the weight of rural, understood as surface, 5,8 %. If it's because of the loss of employment for the closure of the electricians, of course, they're forgetting that for that there is a specific fund and that would therefore be applied exclusively to the bottom of a just renewal, a fair energy prescription. And then there's a last one that's very significant, which is the low rate of rest in the health care staff. It turns out, of course, that you don't recognize that Galicia has improved productivity, improved employment, improved GDP per capita, and put criteria based on a supposed delay in Galicia that would lead us to, instead of being 9%, being even below the population, or much below what would correspond to per capita funding. And in this the best example is the last criterion they put, indicating that the funds must be divided by the low rate of replacement of health personnel. It turns out that Galicia -- and now lately all the autonomous communities -- has been returning 100 percent of the health personnel. Therefore, Galicia would have nothing to do with that criterion. They would only give us resources for dispersal and aging, which are not specified as much weight as they mean for dispersion, whether it's inhabited area, singular entities, or aging, which does not say whether it's 65, 75 or more than 85 years old, for example, that it varies greatly the distribution that would correspond to us. But these are precisely issues that are in the system of self-financing that I used as a reference. So with these criteria it is possible that we would have less than 9 % of what we would have to do with the system of self-financing and even below what we would have to do with population. So there's a obvious contradiction: to ask for some money, then to put down some criteria to receive that money, when above the criteria would give a distribution much below the money you want to have. Finally, we also shared that this would be good if we had a country strategy and it wasn't a centralized strategy. We believe that co-governance, coordination, and just as the European Union demands national plans within a framework of European action, Spain cannot make a mere aggregation of autonomous projects, because there can be redundancies, contradictions, and therefore we must apply a national criterion to the whole Reactivation Plan for Spain. And, precisely, this has to be done in combination with the autonomous communities, which, in fact, will run about half of the total resources. Therefore, the Union voted against the fact that the sectoral fund committee, which is where we are all autonomous communities with the State, adopts a regulation saying that it should be brought together only once a year. For this is the co-governance understood by the current socialist government. But bilaterality is certainly neither the solution nor realistic. The Greek projects also have a Spanish and European dimension, and they need that coordination, and that coordination is certainly not possible if the funds are divided with seventeen bilateral relations between the state and the autonomous communities. Nor would it be taken into account, of course, the redistributive components that can have these funds. Neither bilaterality nor centralization, we are for co-governance. The Board is actually working on three types of projects: firstly, those designed by the administration itself to improve public services; secondly, public-private projects, which support them because they fit well into the future envisaged in the Strategic Plan of Galicia, and strictly private projects, which are also linked to the Strategic Plan. They are going to be concrete and making proposals, so that the figure can be higher, and then you will have to figure out which of them are viable. But what is true is that the Greek projects, it has been said here that the EC Regulation has just been adopted, the fact is that we do not know or consult with the autonomous communities for the design of European funds, and the management procedure is centralist thanks to the support of Vox, by the way. The General Administration, secondly, reserves for itself the financing of public-private projects. I would be grateful if when the Block said that Ibex companies are being contacted Ibex had noticed that public-private projects are centralized in the Government of Spain, not in the Union. Project selection criteria are not known! Precisely, the travels of President Feijóo, both to see the President of the Government of Spain and the other day to the Minister of Energy Transition, would be sent to find out what criteria and what kind of projects have more capacity to go out. So -- I conclude -- we can't vote, because there's a clear incongruity between asking for a digit and setting criteria, when, besides, these criteria wouldn't give that number or joke. But I want to record the gratitude I have to the Block because, indeed, you have to be worried about the centralized distribution and the incretion of criteria that the Government of Madrid is applying. And where can we try to reach agreement? In the framework we have agreed to negotiate these issues, not in new presentations, for which we have done the Reactivation Commission. We'll try to bring up positions tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u96	...to enable Galicia to defend what it has to do: dialogue with the government of Spain and with the other autonomous communities, within the framework of a national plan that enables us all to take advantage of European solidarity to promote the changes that the Greek economy and the Spanish ensemble will have to make in the future if they want to ensure well-being, yes or yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u97	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, starting with the Socialist Party, because we too, with all due respect, have to tell the Socialist Party that we understand that what is out of place at such a decisive moment as this one is that the Socialist Party of Galicia itself puts itself on a profile on issues that are being ravaged by the central government in such an important debate as this. We shared the question that the socialist spokesman was asking about what we want for this country. Indeed, that is also at stake in this debate of the European funds. And we didn't come here with an attitude, at all, of victimism, but of claiming justice. And, of course, if the outcome of these debates is not that we receive at least what is meant by population, because it will of course always happen: that it is decided at the state level and that this situation in which there are indeed economic indicators in our country that are not positive. [[Applause]] In any case, I believe there are other issues that you pointed to, such as transparency, in which we can agree. With regard to the issues which Mr Puy introduced, I would like to thank him for the tone and respect he has expressed in this debate, and that it is so different from the tone and lack of respect for other speakers on other occasions. But the reality is that we are not satisfied, because, of course, you say that you share fears, and you cited several examples, such as the question of funds covered, the question of the first episode -- which I already mentioned -- of European funds, of which we already know we are going to receive less by population. And we would add our discrepancies with regard to the financing system and the degree of compliance with the needs we have at the moment. In those matters we already know that we have differences, but, of course, we share fears but disagree in the road map. Because in my first presentation I spoke, precisely to the thread of the issues on the initiative, of that meeting between Mr Feijóo and Mr Sánchez -- of which we do not know even if this issue of the allocation of European funds was on the agenda --. So it's very good that these points of consensus are manifest in this House, but what's better is that the president of the Galician Union, who then also has a hostile attitude here -- as if responsibility wasn't proper for his negotiating attitude -- defends what's right for this country. In that, of course, we have a difference. [[Applause]] And I deny the inconsistencies that you accuse us of. We sincerely believe that here is the incoherence of the People's Party. Because, of course, they agree that things are not going well, but you put only generalist objectives when this issue was brought to Parliament. I have here the initiative that was discussed first by the amended way and then by the People's Party's Party's own initiative. They were talking about multilevel government, competitive competition and appealing to social and territorial cohesion. At the moment we have none of the three issues on the table, and the People's Party does the only thing about European funds is, when the Galician Nationalist Block pulls out its proposals, criticizes them. And it seems good to us that they criticize them, they're in their rightful right. At least in our document the sum is well done, which is already quite more than the powert point Mr. Count gave us. In any case, indeed, we have made a broader and more ambitious proposal, which is the minimum objective we believe should receive this country. But that doesn't invalidate us to aspire to what has to be a 9% horizon what we have to achieve at least. If it's more then, welcome. And, of course, on the criteria that we put on the table, I have already made progress that we can understand that not all are shared; but at least if there was a debate in this Parliament, we could agree on some more concrete than those of the People's Party. It has already been said that these criteria should be considered, but it is not established that they are the only ones or, as you yourself knew, what weight must be. In any case, we insist that this is not a technical debate, it is a political debate. And if there was political will on the part of the People's Party, we could sit on a table to see the realization of how this has to be technically pointed out to defend it in front of the state. But the problem we have here is that we see that at the time of truth some depend on Ferraz and others depend on Genoa bis -- which I don't know if the change is over but that, in any case, it depends on whether or not Mr. Married -- or not. We, of course -- I insist -- in the area of this reactivation committee's statement that we hope you will start tomorrow and try to reach consensus and transparency on this issue of European funds. But I have already come forward to them that, with the way we have taken in response and insults from the President of the Galician Union, every time an offer is made in this direction, and from the evasives by the People's Parliamentary Group, because the mistrust is growing. For us, of course, it won't stay, but what is not the solution is submission. We actually bet on making this country worth it. We'd like the Galician Union to be negotiating bilaterally, but the question is that what is not a solution and what is not a result is the absolute submission to a centralist agenda, which is what the Union Government is doing, even though here, by opposing the opposition and the central government, pretends something else. That's the question we're concerned about. I'm done -- because I didn't do it on my first shift -- with a quote from Lois Pereiro. He said, "Life never surprises me, quiet and neutral." We believe that this debate is catching up on the unwary, silent and neutral Union. That's bad news and we'll call on them to fix it in the next few weeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u99	Do you accept the amendment? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Don't you? Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and three other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a shock plan aimed at reducing the wage gap between the women and men of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u100	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u101	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u102	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. If I may, I'm going to mention two data that are contained in the explanatory statement of this PNL, but which are very clarifying to me. One is that 41.5 percent of the women in Galicia hired in 2019 had an annual income below the minimum interprofessional wage and, on the other hand, the men who had it were 27.9 percent. And another clarification is that, if we presented the evolution that took place between 2009 and 2019 in the state as a whole, wage parity would not be achieved between women and men until 2087. But it's only in Galicia that it would be fourteen years later, in the year 2101. Well, if we look for statistical elements that allow us to analyze the pay situation of women and men in areas below the state, we have to use records. In particular, the Tax Agency publishes annual labour market statistics and pensions in tax sources. It is a census research based on the ratio of payers, pensions and unemployment benefits to payers, both wages and pensions and unemployment benefits -- the famous 190 model --. It was in 2000 when the largest assembly of world leaders held in the United Nations never inaugurated the new millennium with the Millennium Declaration, which was referendumed by 189 countries. Subsequently, this statement was translated into a roadmap setting the targets to be reached by 2015. As every time we look at any aspect of our labour market, we see that men and women are not on equal footing. In the Millennium Declaration, after the goals of eradicating poverty and hunger, and attaining public universal education, it is set as a third objective to promote gender equality and women's autonomy. The pay gap is one of the most important demonstrations of inequality between women and men, and it illuminates the position of each individual in relation to the targets of the millennium that we count. Galicia, in 1999, had a much more favourable situation than other autonomous communities. While the salary gap at that time in the state as a whole was 32.6 %, in Galicia it was 6.7 points below -- in particular 25.9 % --. Of all the autonomous communities, only the Canary Islands were above this situation. So let's look at the situation in 2015, when the millennium targets should be on their way and the wage gap should be quite cut. Murcia and Balearics reduce the gap by more than 14 points; Catalonia, 13.3; Castile-A Mancha, 11.1; Andalusia and A Rioxa, by 10.5. It's eight communities, as you see, that have more than 10 points left. In all of them, women's average wage increases by 66.4%; and men's by 40.4%. This increase in average wages is responsible for this decrease of an average of 12.2 points. The wage gap in Estremadura and Canarias falls more than 9; in the Madrid and Castile community, more than 8; with a decrease of 7.2 in Cantabria. In these five communities and in the city of Melilla, the average wage of women is 62%, that of men, 45% -- and is reduced to 8 --. What's going on in Galicia? For Galicia was the last community to reduce the wage gap in the period established by the UN as a goal of the Millennium Declaration. In the period between 1999 and 2015, the pay gap is reduced by only 3.8 points. Once again, the People's Party's policy of reducing wage income appears to achieve a greater increase in business surpluses. That ideological principle, to raise the surplus at the expense of the salary, translates into a very unequal increase in the average wage of men and women. While men's average wages rise by 52% -- more than in the state average -- women's wages rise by 59.7% compared to the average growth in the state -- by 64.6% --. Good. In the sixteen years between 1999 and 2015, the People's Party ruled in twelve years, reducing the wage gap by only 1.8 points, with a concrete average of 0.2 per year. However, and on the other hand, the Galician Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block ruled for four years and in them they reduced 1.9 points to a wage gap, with an average of 0.5. We see how the policy of the People's Party was able to move forward, but against the third objective of the millennium, that of promoting gender equality and women's autonomy. And we know that without reducing the pay gap, it's not possible either: equality or autonomy for women. Let's keep going. After the Millennium Declaration in 2015, the UN approved the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, an opportunity for countries and societies to embark on a new path to improve the lives of all without leaving anyone behind. This agenda, as we know, has seventeen sustainable development goals, including poverty eradication, combating climate change, education and women's equality. He also contemplated this aspect. And we go back to statistics, labour market statistics and pensions in tax sources. Since 2009 there's been a specific statistic... and I'm sorry about that since 1999, but we're going to analyze it since 2009, which makes CNAE change and we can give reliable data. Well, this information that has been facilitating the Tax Agency refers to the minimum wage, distributes the wages of employees in relation to the number of times they receive this minimum interprofessional wage. In 2009, women employed under minimum wage were 33.5% of all women; and men were 21% of all men. While men who have less than the minimum wage increased by 6.8 points, women didn't do so. If in 2009 one out of three women had income below the minimum wage, in 2019 it's two out of five. As I said at the beginning of my speech, 41.5 per cent of the wage-earned Greek women in 2019 have incomes below the minimum inter-professional wage. This is due on numerous occasions to which they spend twenty-two hours a week on average weekly child care and dependent tasks; and instead, men occupy 9%. With which women are in a lot of cases engaged in part-time contracts. This is about an incidence, because there are many others, such as the wages women have in occupations like those of women who work in the household employee scheme -- which can be an enlightening data --. And, on the other hand, men are hyperrepresented in professions or professions that have very much higher wages. And it doesn't work for the Galician Union. Well, the first conclusion is that the gender policy of the People's Party -- or the lack of it -- has not only reduced the gender gap between the percentage of women and men who received less than the minimum interprofessional wage, but between 2009 and 2019 has grown 12 points. If you see it for ages, if you see this pay gap for ages, it's also different from what happens in the rest of the state. In Galicia, specifically, the difference is greater in people aged 25 or less. The gap is in that case 23.6 %. On the other hand, people with ages between 26 and 45 would be 18.3%; and people with 55 and more, with a gap of 20.4%. And in the state as a whole it said it was different, because, as the age grew, the pay gap increased. Well, as a second conclusion, then we have to, because of the difference between the gap in youth under 26 years of age, in Galicia there is a 23.6% gap against 17.9% in the rest of the state. It is therefore necessary for the People's Party, which the Government of Galicia, to establish the quota of women under 26 in the specific programmes to reduce the wage gap -- both in active employment policies and in the training or placement of these groups or, as I said before, in occupations that are underrepresented -- to have the necessary training to come to that labour market. And that, gentlemen of the People's Party, is the exclusive competence of this Government. If we also talk about sections of the CNAE, we can analyze who has that upper or lower crack. A gap of more than 25% is in financial activities, in scientific and technical professional activities, in manufacturing industry -- 26% is nothing more and nothing less! -- ; in the hostel -- where a high percentage of women are occupied -- 25.7%. And in those occupations, 62%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u104	Yes, I'm done, President. Just one data. In these activities I said, 62.2% of all employees are women. I'll continue my second intervention. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs. Rodríguez, the payroll isn't a point. The pay gap is the result of structural causes, of fundamental long-term causes that derive from a division of macho and patriarchal labor. And fighting it is a long and complex job because we have to act against a work reality that has been extended for too long. I would say myself from the beginning of time. But, of course, the pay divide also has a cause for government policies, because in this fight shared with feminist organizations, with trade union organizations, with society in general, the role of governments is decisive. And indeed, in Galicia over the past eleven years, and despite the momentum of feminism -- especially in the latter -- the Government has made more progress. No one already doubts today that the workplace is fundamental to women's empowerment, and that that empowerment is impossible without autonomy -- I would say "independence" -- economic. And, therefore, governments have to design a different roadmap than they have done so far to advance precisely in overcoming discrimination and inequality -- in particular work and economics --. And I'm talking about government because today it's still just the government of the state that has most of the competition framework in employment, and who gets, in addition, most of the economic resources. So it's also the one who has the greatest ability to inspect and punish companies that do not comply with the Equality Act. I want to give you an example. According to the annual report of the Labour Inspectorate and Social Security, 414 companies inspected for direct or indirect wage discrimination only in four companies discriminate on women; that is, 99.03 % of the companies inspected did not discriminate on the basis of gender. The inspection, of course, includes companies of different sizes, of different sectors, which give jobs to men and women. And there was only wage discrimination in the payrolls of 70 women -- that is 0.41% --. What does that mean? For it means that, in the light of the Labour Inspectorate's reports, it can be concluded that 99 percent of state companies do not discriminate wages against women for doing the same job as a man. Of course, reports don't collect it. They cannot pick it up because, among other reasons, wage discrimination is illegal, as the 1981 Workers' Statute itself states. However, the difference between what a man collects and what a woman collects all and we all know that there exists. The different meters show a clear involution in this area. So, and following a little bit of the scheme of your LNP, Mrs. Rodríguez, the first conclusion is that the legal framework needs to be improved. But not only that, not only does the legal framework get better. It must also be left behind once and for all the determination, the absolute abandonment in which governments maintain this issue, starting with their own workers, their own employees or their own employees, who still have to resort to judges to achieve their rights in conciliation because governments themselves are the first to violate equality plans with their own workers, the equality plans they approve. Well, the problem is not so much the legal framework but the lack of development and, of course, the failure to comply with that legal framework. BNG has been talking about the creation of a public body that promotes and monitors the non-compliance of equality legislation, a tool, a valuer of equality, which, following the model of other countries that go far ahead of us in this matter, allows us to move forward. In all light, the economic and labour situation of women is more than worrying. The annual report just published by the Galega Interunion Confederation speaks of a pay gap in 2019 of almost 21%; and in pensions, nothing more and nothing less than 35%. It's wage discrimination that is widespread in all branches of activity -- in some, with a higher incidence -- and that leaves us a result of 4,527 euros less a year for women. It is a situation in which even more consolidates the figure of the poor worker -- and of the poor worker as well -- of the tertiaryization of the economy, and which is aggravated by economic and labour policies in this case also of the Galician Union. Without going outside the Spanish state, in Euskadi, for example, more than ten years ago such a defense has been created, an agency that pays special attention to the private sector. However, in our country there are examples of how the Galician Labour Relations Council has not just had the role it should play, and how not even enough public work is being monitored. When we talk about the pay gap we're talking about -- as I said before -- of discrimination that is not clearly seen, that is not seen and not observed in payrolls, because it's illegal. But we all know those pluses or those different categories that apply to each other and that at the end of the year they make up thousands of euros of wage difference. When we talk about the private sector, we also talk about private concessions from public employers. Well, without going any further, in Sergas, in Sergas himself, right? -- which is the highest public employer in this country -- or in the area of aid in the dependent home of the Social Policy Council, we see what wages are. And we see that there is clearly a complicity of the Administration -- in this case of the Board -- when applying and monitoring recruitment requirements as appropriate. Of course, the whole reference to labour discrimination is complex to address. And that's why it's important for BNG to create this body, from that valedoria, so that compliance with legislation can be specifically monitored. But not only to monitor but also to advise and defend women's rights in the workplace. Because, indeed, there are trade unions, and there is an important affiliation of women to trade unions as well. But there are places, there are places, where the unions don't make it. And even the labour inspection itself doesn't get there either, and it's essential to strengthen it. The road has already marked it -- as I said -- other countries that go far ahead of us. So there's nothing to be invented, you just have to have what you're not having right now: political will to do it. On the other hand, the equality plans of one government and the other are, year after year, a copy and take. But we're not worth having a broad legal framework and a lot of plans if there's no evaluation, if there's no control that allows us to see where we need to move forward and strengthen measures or implement new measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the gender pay gap is one of the most exponents of the set of inequalities that women suffer in the workplace. Gravity is in that very pay gap, but especially in that gap, that difference, it's today -- and this is the most serious -- chronicled problem. Since 2009, that pay gap has been reduced to only 2.5 points, which is just 150 euros minus -- a reduction, of course, that is very low -- in more than ten years. And for us there is a fact that is absolutely central: the younger women -- curiously the more trained women, the higher educational level -- are the ones who suffer precisely that pay gap. The age group between 16 and 25 has a wage gap of more than 30%, and women in general are majority among the low-income population. And in all this, in all this data, and but where did Mrs. Rodríguez bring us, where is the evaluation of the Board?, where is the evaluation of the Board about all this? Then there will be another PNL of the fearful People's Party itself, because among its measures I quote to encourage new flexible working patterns, as if work at the moment was not flexible enough, precarious enough and poor enough for women. Well, we tabled an amendment, Mrs. Rodríguez. Even though we actually agree with the need to put in place a plan of shock from the Union, we also believe that the Government of the State must once and for all introduce the labour equality law which it has promised and has not yet approved. And we believe -- and in that sense goes precisely our amendment -- that the competences of the labour inspection -- I will finish, Mr. President -- they have to be their own, they have to be the German Government, the Greek administration, and that their funding has to be increased to be that effective labour inspection. That's why we believe that the Union must move, it must definitely abandon its comfort zone for the past eleven years and begin to claim the competences, which, according to the statute, there is nothing that prevents them from exercising beyond the political will of the Greek Government itself to exercise them. And yet without waiting for that to happen, we insist that the Board has to move now, commit to carrying out a specific work inspection plan to pursue the work discrimination of women. In these two directions, our amendments go along, and we think they're perfectly assemblable by the PNL advocacy group and we can vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, as a matter of urgency, I want to show our deepest rejection of the violent act that we are dawning at Santiago de Compostela this weekend, with an image of the vice president of the Government, Carmen Calvo, hanging on a tree, in a Santiago de Compostela square, with the symbolism of March 8th. From here I want to transfer our respect and the most absolute rejection to this manifestation of incitement to hate that no one deserves. [[Applause]] We can think differently, we can be part of different political organizations, we can be political opponents -- and we can also manifest totally different ideological issues in the matter of equality -- but nobody and nothing justifies this display of hatred as we saw this weekend in Compostela. I don't know if they were fascist, non-fascist, social-communist or collective pro queer. The truth is, I was wearing a sign that said, "I lost myself where the patriarchate is?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And that, gentlemen, is still more intolerable, because no one can appeal to feminism or a feminist struggle hanging a woman from a tree in March 8th Square, gentlemen. No, feminism does not defend its claims. And, therefore, we, from the People's Party, condemn this macabre and intolerable act or any incitement to violence. And we regret that the Minister of Equality has not done this same condemnation. Because, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, those who carried out this attitude are within the Government. They were the ones who put Mrs. Carmen Calvo on the map, calling her and accusing her of being a fugitive for not supporting a law on the other side of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, that cannot be used politically. President Sánchez said he was the president of the most progressive government in the history of Spain and he created the Ministry of Equality to show that progress. But the other side of the government is being able to polarize society in all areas, and in feminism as well. We will not allow feminism to be used as object of confrontation. And that's why I, in these days before March 8, want to claim, from any debate we have in this House, in the streets or in any action or demonstration that we have, even if it's different politically, the unity of feminism. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodríguez, you have made a series of figures to cover up that the real wage gap and the real increase in the wage divide is in Spain since the Socialist Party, Mr. Sánchez. Look, there's a lot of indicators that lead us to that point, right? The distance between men and women in the labour market is still abysmal. See, the employment rate for men and women with children was 81.5 per cent in 2009 and 86.7 per cent in 2019; and it was 60.9 per cent and 68.1 per cent in women respectively. And the unemployment rate was also 13.72 % in 2018 and 14.17 % in 2020 in men. But the women's number was 17.08% when you took the Government and today it's 18.33%. This has been true since the rule of socialism in Spain, Mrs Pérez told you. This isn't just the Autonomous Community, the powers -- and above all the legislative ones, then we'll debate it on a People's Party initiative -- they're the state. And in the meantime, they don't legislate towards wage equality and they're messing up in Madrid. Right now they've introduced three equal treatment laws for LGTBI collectives in Congress. If we can introduce one, the Socialist Party presents another. We can block the Ministry of Justice and that of the Socialists makes a negative report to the Ministry of Equality. What are they playing at? The reality is that these equal trifles in the Government between the Socialist Party and We are not favouring anything or leading to higher rates of female employment or higher wages for women, nor to shorten that pay gap that you were talking about and that so many figures gave us here. But the reality is that they earn lower wages, they suffer more temporality, and there are four more points of female unemployment. Pensions are actually 34 % lower. And now you've introduced a decree to say that women's pensions will be raised in the future. It's false, gentlemen, it's false! They'll continue to sink into the women's pension gap. From Royal Decree 3/2021 I'm going to tell you the paradox, and I'm going to set clear examples with pensions that they're going to collect. A working mother from 800 euros of pension, if she has three or more children, she'll be taken from her pension. A mother with 1,200 euros of pension, if she has two or more children, she'll be taken from her pension. A mother with a maximum pension of 2,600 euros, if she has one child, she'll receive the pension. It seems that it is made for Mrs. Yolanda Díaz this legislative amendment, ladies and gentlemen. This is not the reality of our country, and every day there will be, unfortunately, more rift between the pensions paid by women and those that will be paid in the future. For, look, it's progressive itself; progressive, little; and fair, nothing. This change that you have made of pensions based on maternity is absolutely unfair. Look, Mrs Pérez said that this is a structural problem -- that of the payroll -- and I absolutely agree with it. You in your initiative ask for a shock plan without pre-defining the needs that must meet or respond to on the basis of the particularities of our territory. Gender inequality is not a specific issue that now arose by the coward-19. Covid-19 came to increase it, because it came to sink into the labor problems women had, because it came to sink into temporality, because it came to harm -- as you said -- sectors like hostage. Of course, there are a lot of women who worked at the hostel. What can they do now? They have no training to join other sectors. What are the popup sectors? New technologies, information and communication technologies, for which our women -- for many, and especially those of these precarious sectors -- are neither trained nor prepared to incorporate -- I insist -- into those emerging sectors that are growing in employment. And the point is, when there was some recovery in these sectors, it wasn't reflected in the recruitment of women, Mrs. Rodríguez. And that's not a competition for the Autonomous Community, because, look, the Galician Union is launching, or has been running throughout all these years, many initiatives and measures for equal work. Because, see, in 2010 the salary divide in Spain was 16.2%. In 2018, when the People's Party left the Government, it was 14%, two points less. And today, two and a half years later, from 2018 to 2020, we're at 21.4%, seven and a half points more than when you took the Government two years ago, in 2018. In Galicia in 2018, the pay gap was 23%, and today, two years later and despite the fact that Spain is rising, Galicia continues to decline. We're 21.5%. And why? Because initiatives are being put in place to ensure that employment equality. Mrs Pérez was talking about collective agreements. In fact, pay inequality is prohibited, but it is true that there are clauses in collective agreements that allow, via plus or other issues, that there are higher wages for men than for women. Even though the pay gap doesn't go that way alone, Mrs Pérez, there are other issues that also affect the pay gap. But for that, in order to avoid these direct or indirect wage discriminations -- or if any discriminatory clauses are detected -- it must be communicated to a commission. You were talking about an organism. And I'm telling you that an autonomous advisory committee is set up for equality between women and men in collective bargaining. There you can move, Mrs Pérez, those clauses you were talking about. And the most representative trade union and business organisations in Galicia form part of this commission. Secondly, the Directorate-General for Labour Relations and the General Secretariat for Equality develop guidelines and manuals for the dissemination of equal opportunities in the field of women and men. Another measure is to advise enterprises -- for the implementation, implementation, control and improvement of equal opportunities plans between women and men -- from the employment unit of the Employment and Equality Council. That fusion of these two areas is fundamental. I also want to highlight the economic and technical support for the voluntary implementation of equality plans and other measures to promote equality for companies; or the Welsh brand of equality that we had in the electoral programme in the last July elections and that today will be a reality. And there is also an ongoing monitoring of compliance with the applicable legislation on equal opportunities in the workplace, a competition which is exercised in collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate. In 2019 698 proceedings were carried out in Galicia and resulted in a total of 327 requirements for companies to comply with the labour equality legislation. Therefore, Galician Union is working, ladies and gentlemen. There are orders of help and commands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u110	Yeah, it just doesn't give me time to say everything I have to say. But it's true that there are tools. You were talking about flexibility, Mrs Pérez. I believe that this pandemic has put us in the face of some important means of conciliation that we should use, for example, teleworking. But we have to regulate it. Of course, you don't like it, but if there's a chance and if someone wants to take it, why won't they make it easy for you? What's the matter is that you have to be regulated. What can't be unless telework is used... but that's what we need to legislate for. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u112	And to legislate is to make a wage equality law, about which in this Parliament, Mrs. Rodríguez -- you weren't here in the past legislation -- we've reached agreements several times every group in the House to push that law in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u114	The real decree you passed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u116	...it doesn't work, it leaves a lot of holes to cover.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u117	Thank you very much. Time must also be adjusted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u118	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u119	Thank you. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u120	Thank you, President. First, I wanted to thank the People's Party, particularly its spokesperson, Mrs. Prado, for condemning the vandal act against our Vice President Carmen Calvo. Secondly, speaking of the content of the motion, where I do not agree that it seems to be Madrid, Madrid, Madrid... and Galicia has the exclusive competences in employment. I mean, ruling throughout the whole democracy in Galicia, something has to do with the different wages and percentages and data that I gave them and that they didn't seem to like it very much. [[Applause]] Because it is true that the wage gap is a world problem, which is not a Galician problem. But what we're dealing with here is the policies of the Galician Union, the Government of the People's Party, which have to influence this wage gap. And they don't seem to like the data I give. Because, of course, you were talking about pensions, pensions in Madrid. Well, I'll talk about pensions in Galicia. It turns out, if we don't act against this wage gap, this crack happens all the time of the women's life, but it's included when they retire. Because it turns out that retirement, as we know, is deducted from the contributions we make during working life. And it turns out -- I don't say it, which is said by a report that makes Galicia's UXT on this issue -- that the pension gap in Galicia is 36%. Maybe it's a data they don't like either. And more of that with regard to pensions, which says that, while in 2002 the difference between a man's retirement pension and a woman's retirement pension in Galicia was EUR 188, in 2020 it amounts to EUR 414.23. I think something about this has to do with the policies that we use for women, and of course collective agreements and laws cannot stand up for or leave mechanisms for women. And we all know how they do it through plugins, etc. --that you can do --. As for what the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block in relation to Labour Inspection, we know that since 2008, through an order -- specifically from February 21, 2008 -- a tripartite commission of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate has been established, because it is a mechanism that is born so that the Galician Board itself urges the Inspection for the specific targets of Galicia towards the programs that it has to develop in our community -- which are specifically being made specific, obviously -- as for wage discrimination and in recruitment. The question of competences, I think it's a matter of talking to much more detail than this motion. But, of course, the Inspectorate has to do this job. And, according to me, you're doing it. But, speaking of the politics of the People's Party, when he arrived at the Union, there were specific programs implemented to reduce the gap by incorporating women into occupations in which they were -- as I said before -- underrepresented. There was a shared methodology with social agents, they analyzed what were the contracts that were made for each territorial employment pact. They valued the distribution of men and women in these occupations, in those occupations where it was necessary to incorporate more men and women because they were more underrepresented. You came to the Work Council -- which at that time they deleted, which was included in the Employment Council -- and dropped these programs. I'm going to give you an example: the Women's 'Yes' program. In that program women were being trained in activities -- as I said before -- that they were not represented. For example, in the transport group, in the transport of vehicles, when they are fully underrepresented, they took courses so that women could occupy these positions. And you didn't even analyze it or anything, because with what the spokesperson for the BNG I fully agree: we have no diagnosis of the Greek Government about this great problem for women in Galicia, and for families in general -- because unemployment benefits also fall when a woman is at that time --. And now, with the pandemic, many of them will see that they will receive a lower salary because the previous six months of contributions are obviously those. They don't have a shock plan either. He said no measures were put on the table. Home!, in the General Directorate of Employment and in the Directorate of Training and Placement have a very determined scope for making the policies of shock. They really have a specific scope in their own skills and that you know. So those employment policies have to be geared towards these women. And training and placement policies are the same. That's why they have those general addresses. And if they don't have a diagnosis, then, of course, little can be done on this subject. We also don't know the reasons they had for eradicating programs that could work, we have no idea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u122	We're training without any kind of prior analysis of the territory, of the comarcas, of what is needed for both men and women -- especially, in this case, to make the pay gap not only diminish but prevent it from going up --. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u123	Do you accept the BNG amendment? Do you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u124	BNG's amendment? No, so I explained...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u125	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the impact of the pandemic on the diagnosis and treatment of cancer and on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u126	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u127	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u128	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I, as a matter of precedent, will say that in this criminalizing drift in which the People's Party is installed now we see that they want to condemn the intruder as well. Because, Mrs. Prado, that's called "meco," and last year the protagonist was Feijóo. [[Applause]] And I think you're delusional. Is anyone from Ourense's PP there? Really? Because I can understand that in Madrid they don't know or ignore the culture and tradition of this country, but is there no one here who can take off a phone and contextualize and explain what happened these days in this country? Here we're installed in a drift of "all worth," even criminalizing the popular tradition of this country to get rid of each other's backs and forths. And I remind them that last year the protagonist of the guy was Feijóo and here no one in his group, no one in his group, brought no barbarity like the one we just heard here, really. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's called "meco" and is part of the popular tradition of this country's entrance. And I beg the people, at least from Ourense, to unlock the phone and contextualize; because, if not, we are about to introduce ourselves into a truly democratic drift that becomes unbearable in any country. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u129	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u130	Please! And why didn't they come here to condemn when the guy was Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u131	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u132	Why wasn't it reprehensible for the chairman of the Galician Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u133	Silence! Silence, Mr. Pazos! Mr. Peace, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u134	The absolute delirium in which this country is intended to be installed is incredible. From the BNG with that, in any case, it doesn't contain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u135	Let's go to the oncology, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u136	Focusing on the issue, you will remember, ladies and gentlemen, that we approved fifteen days ago in this plenary -- and we read from it, in addition -- an institutional statement on the occasion of International Cancer Day. In that statement literally says that "the crisis caused by the pandemic of cowardice has only made the situation of social and health fragility worse for people with cancer and their families as a collective double-vulnerable, cancer and cowardice. The Galician Parliament -- we said 15 days ago -- "provotes to push for the relevant actions to alleviate the situation of special vulnerability, as well as to ensure in equity the rights of people with cancer and their families." Today, since the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we have brought this initiative with the aim of achieving in concrete terms this compromise expressed unanimously by the House. Since the pandemic was declared a year ago and measures have begun to be put in place to curb the progress of the coward-19 the restrictions have had a huge impact on the population as a whole, that is indisputable. But that impact has been and is being even greater for people who suffer from chronic illness, a health impact but also emotional impact that can't last in time. This is an opinion of the BNG but shared by many entities, associations and bodies, such as the Galician Bioethics Council, who know that they recently published a report on primary care and the situation at which the base of the public health system in Galicia lies. And he warned the Galician Bioethics Council in that report about how, in giving it priority -- he was not criticizing it, but pointing it out --..., how giving priority to the cowardly pathology negatively affected the entire care of the base that supports the public health system in this country, especially those of patients with chronic diseases. And he said the Bioethics Council that relegated the attention of other diseases, removed care processes that if they considered less priority and delayed certain emergency activities with the risk of causing serious side effects to people's health. It also warns of the risks, prejudices and consequences that the unmeasured implementation of telephone care may have precisely for patients with chronic diseases. And one of these diseases is precisely cancer, with diagnoses that are delayed, consultations and proofs that are appropriate, operations that are postponed and a huge impact on the physical and emotional health of patients and family members who cannot be obvious and who deserve every public effort to prevent it from extending. Yesterday, we knew through the written response sent by the Galician Board to the Socialist Parliamentary Group that Sergas placed in 10 per cent the number of consultations to patients with suspected cancers and the reduction of 8.7 per cent of operations to oncological patients by 2020, some figures on which the health personnel and also the investigator staff were warning -- that we have good and much in our country and still in precarious conditions --. And those delays and these applauses are immediately having two consequences that affect all of us -- not only people with cancer -- but later diagnoses, which mean cancers in more advanced phases when they are detected -- and it's hard to say it, but we also know that this later translates into worse prognosis -- and also consequences not only in the immediate but in the medium and long term. He warned them of the director for Europe of the World Health Organization at a meeting organized precisely by the University of Compostela, and urged the representative of WHO for Europe the political and health authorities of countries, including Galicia, not to abandon prevention, chronic disease management and to ensure sound health systems that would improve the health of the population as a whole. And "solid" means with resources, with human, economic and material resources, that allow you to face an unprecedented health crisis such as that of cowardice but without neglecting at the same time the other diseases, which continue their pace. That doesn't even stop the pandemic. Taking care of the health consequences of the shed is urgent, but you can't help but see that there are more things that are equally important. Even if the pandemic tears everything down and pushes our lives up, there are people who continue to suffer from non-covid pathologies that they need and deserve quality health care from the Greek public health system with all guarantees. And that's why you need -- among other things -- two issues that we pick up on this initiative. First, strengthen the public health system to provide it -- especially primary care -- with the resources and means needed to cope with the coronavirus but also with other diseases. And secondly, take the necessary measures to ensure the highest quality and agility in the detection and care of cancer patients today, but also in the coming years. The World Health Organization has been warning that it anticipates an increase in the number of cases in the coming years precisely because of the delays, the delays, that we are now facing the restrictions, or the measures that have to be taken to curb the advance of the coward. And the proposal we make today, which makes the BNG, is simple, is acceptable -- we understand -- for the set of political forces that make up the House, but it's clear at the same time. There is a need for a duly budgeted shock plan to restore the pace of prevention, early detection and diagnosis campaigns, because delays do not make the disease disappear but hide it. We hope that this will expressed in the institutional statement that all the political forces represented in the Chamber signed 15 days ago is also translated today into unanimous support for this initiative. At least the BNG will be so. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u138	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mrs. Rodil, you know -- and I've already told you in person -- that we're going to support the initiative, indisputably. We have tabled an amendment which we believe enriches, but regardless of what happens to the amendment, we will support the initiative. There's nothing else on our mind, either. We are going to support it and we also believe that it complements or continues the debate you have already mentioned and that it existed here in this Parliament -- I think I remember that early in December -- a surprising debate. And at the time, we were proposing an initiative that we also considered to be quite "appropriate" -- if the word exists -- and that it proposed to report on the situation of diagnoses. It was as acceptable as you might think today, as far as I share with you that it would be difficult to be against. At that time we planted the existence of several scientific and professional voices that warned that, as it was reasonable to understand, the pandemic brought some problems to some diseases, especially in cases of time-dependent. There are reports that warn of the greatest difficulty during 2020 -- or of the decrease in treatment in the right time -- for example, in the case of acute myocardial infarctions. Because many people even gave up or assumed that the first symptoms might not be problematic. People in general were afraid to go to health centers because of fear of being infected, and often also because of self-indictment, thinking that "people are dying from the vault and why am I going to go to something that is not necessary?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Sometimes if it's necessary, because some of the diseases -- we notoriously talk about oncology -- when they warn it's already late. And so there's the need to diagnose for sure. The case of oncology, in addition, you have to see -- and Mrs. Rodil said it -- with the fact that, however hard it is, you have to be aware that delaying diagnoses will end up bringing later treatments, which have worse results and will therefore give higher fatal data. They warn the professionals that, with current data that they themselves have been collecting -- the Spanish Society of Oncology, by setting the clearest example -- they think that unfortunately we will have an increase in cancer mortality in the coming years -- probably at the end of this year, the year that comes or even two years from now --. They speak of between 10 % and 20 %. I wish they were wrong, I wish they were wrong! But they're people who usually know pretty well what they're talking about. Where's the problem? The problem is not that the treatments of those already diagnosed people were not followed. They followed each other. The oncology services in the pandemic worked well, in the sense that those people who were -- let's say -- within the system were met -- probably with the difficulties and the notorious and obvious complications due to the coward --. But there is an essentially diagnostic problem in 2020. And besides, we're now on the problem that, if we don't take or put the focus there, we can have the lowest 2020 diagnoses going to be lower -- in number, in volume -- in 2021. And, therefore, we are reducing the treatment and potential cure or chronicle capacity of the disease that has the services during 2021. So we're reducing work. And a wrong view would assume that having less work, having less volume of patients in an oncological service, would mean that disease improves. That's not the case, that's not the case. So what are we defending? What does the BNG defend with a clear, very accurate allusion to the statement we read here 15 days ago? That we have to focus on a reality that is also a consequence of cowardice, that of the patients who are not directly cowardly can be affected. And it's not that those who were being treated in March last year wouldn't follow him, of course! And it's not that services don't have fantastic, enormous, unbeatable professionals. It's about the pandemic causing us to diagnose less, either because the services have been affected, because people have gone less or because they have given less relevance to some programs. And that causes, especially in this case, that we have fewer diagnoses. Why? Because here's the diagnosis, the best diagnosis -- the best diagnosis is what's not done, but referring to what's given -- it's the one that appears before there's physical symptoms and that people already have a more difficult situation. So it's especially sensitive to this area so that we can maintain and intensify all possible work. That's what we're going to always add up to. We believe -- as we say -- that it's very sharp and that, as the rapporteur has said, it's a tough situation but it has to be explained. Because we're not just here to tell beautiful things. As the world is, in addition, we're usually talking about pretty hard things. This is a reality that's here. We want to make some progress. There is a European consciousness on this issue, there is a European plan to fight cancer, the Ministry of Health has just signed ten days ago on its update or implementation, with some measures that are added to it, to move to the International Council and urge autonomous communities -- because they have delegated powers in health management -- to implement new measures. Yesterday too -- and moving a little ahead of this initiative -- if you talked about oncology here. It is true that we know that Sergas, in response to our group -- although three months late -- now admits what in December in this debate did not support the Popular Group, and that there is a decrease in diagnostics. Sergas figures it at 10 percent. The experts speak of between 10 % and 20 %, but Sergas figures it by 10 %. Yesterday the advisor reduced that data. I think he said that since all the measures were not incorporated, all the data from the whole year would be around 7% or less. We, as we said, would be glad it was a zero. But the question is that we can't even be in the race of looking like we're good and that's why the reduction is higher. The reality is what it is, and it's very difficult to accept -- at least let us doubt -- the fact that Galicia is going to be a global exception. Because, in addition, in some types of cancer, Galicia has very high rates -- because of circumstances that need to be studied in another context, by environmental issues or by issues of another characteristic --. But besides, it doesn't make sense that across Europe we're talking about an increase of between 10% and 20% and here we're trying to make a career to see if we say less. There's a reality, it's a difficult reality, and it has to be assumed. That response that the Government gave us, which says it's decreasing by 10 percent, I already contradicted the position of the People's Party in December -- which denied it --. We hope that, from that, we can understand all the groups that need to focus -- how we moved it then --. It's not a matter of looking for guilty now, it's not wrong to know what doesn't work well to improve it, but the question is that any day too long we've been starting or strengthening these services, and understanding that there's a decrease in diagnostics, it's another day that we're taking longer to find more diagnoses to be able to deal with them before and to be able to work on one of the most effective lines, which is the early diagnosis. That line goes our amendment. And also, in addition to making this report that allows us to really know them and so that we don't have to be debating here about speculations of numbers, we consider in our amendment the intensification of the processes of encryption. The writing processes work well, they're a fantastic advance in science, and the oncology services in Galicia work well. The writing processes are really a great advance necessary. What do we defend? Let them intensify so we don't lose diagnostic capacity, because this is happening. And secondly, that we increase the chances of diagnosis. There are other cancers where early diagnosis is formidable in later treatment capacity. Some experts recently talked about the possibility of doing prostate cancer seizures, for example, that are not being done at this level. And we could include them. We believe that all progress on the crows will be not only good, but it will be a luxury as a population. So let's go to one of the arguments that we should have about cancer, which is that we have to detect it first. We defend the intensification of existing processes so that there is no such reduction and we defend the implementation of new encryption processes. I'm sure it's not easy. We know it's not easy and we know that it needs coordination with the ministry, with the state plans. But we know that there is also good will and that there are communities that are beginning to introduce some measures in that direction. So we believe that Galicia can only try to be in the head of those who can implement these measures. So knowing it's a matter that needs to focus away from short-breeding debates, we rejoice that we can work and focus on this question. We are grateful, as a parliamentary group, that the BNG also brought this issue. We know of your concern -- you voted for our proposal in December --. And we would be glad if the People's Party this time changed its position and now voted in favour -- we think it would be a good deal --. And from there on, we have to work to defend that we have good professionals. It's our professionals who are saying there's a decrease in diagnosis. There's a fantastic journalistic work -- the month of October or November -- with the Greek professionals, with the oncology heads of Santiago, with the head of hematology in Lugo, who work and clearly explain why we have those diagnostic volumes. We think it's essential to listen to them. And that's why our job is to focus and then to wake up the imposition of measures. Because if not, it wouldn't make much sense either. We are therefore going to support the initiative that is convinced that it is a good deal and that we must continue to jump to this need, since it would be exceptional for our health system that could be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u139	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u140	Good morning and thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Torrado, although what I'm going to tell you does not correspond to this initiative, because of the figures you have given in the debate, in the long health debate that took place today in this Parliament, because to you -- that you are an artist who is making emblems with numbers -- I have to tell you that the numbers are well done. Because if the population of more than 80 years in Galicia is 236,084 people and in Spain of 2,856.101, that corresponds to 8.2%. That's right, that's right! It's a simple rule of three, a simple rule of three. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you, who is a psychologist, should know precisely that with the cognitive capacity of a primary child, because if you are able to make a simple rule of three. It's a simple rule of three! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I want to focus on this initiative, which we consider a very important issue, so I don't want to waste more time on this. In Galicia, it's a very sensitive topic for cancer patients, and it's very serious. And I want to start by saying that in Galicia he never stopped treating any oncological patients before the pandemic or during the pandemic, and that no oncology service stopped working. Almost a year ago -- March 13 -- the Board of Trustees declared the health emergency situation in our territory. And in order to respond to that extraordinary situation, it was necessary to carry out a continuous process of adaptation of the health system, both with regard to activity and with regard to human and material resources. And on the basis of this, the Galego Health Service issued the Instruction -- which you know -- 6/2020, which establishes that in primary and hospital care centers, as well as in dependent entities, concerted centres or with permission to use Sergas, the scheduled surgical activity may be suspended or postponed but with an exception -- and this is very important -- : the pathologies collected in Decree 105/2017, so the system of guarantees of maximum waiting times is regulated. As you all know, it's basically the oncologic pathologies. I always say: I don't want to forget the magnificent professionals we have in Galicia and the enormous effort they have made, aware of the extraordinary situation we are living in. These professionals have been able to maintain to a large extent both the activity of external consultations for suspicion of oncological pathology -- these are the rapid pathways of cancer -- and the surgical activity related to the pathologies collected in the Decree of Maximum Time Guarantees. And thanks to this law of guarantees -- which, by the way, the entire opposition voted against -- we were able to guarantee assistance at the maximum times established for cancer patients. And this isn't ballad, it's very important. The data are there, the different health areas have maintained the medium waiting times of the rapid pathways within the established standards. By the way, this quick track system was also implemented by a People's Party government in 2010, which simply says that the times of the first hospital consultation for any German or Greek must be less than fifteen days -- that's what this fast track decree says --. And you're talking about a letter from the board, or the news from a newspaper, Mrs. Rodil -- referring to the data of a news -- which, as you said, Mr. Torrado -- and also yesterday, the counsellor -- is not about the year 2020. It refers to the period from January to October. And by 2020, there can be seven or less delays in diagnostics. The average waiting time in Galicia -- sorry because if you caught a sheet in front of me --. [[Pause.]] In Galicia in 2020 -- which we have implemented the rapid pathways of breast cancer, colon cancer, lung cancer, prostate, bladder, melanoma -- the average waiting time -- and this is important -- from the first day a Greek gets in touch with primary care was 3.7 days, which means an average of 4 days less than in 2019, when there was no pandemic. With data no longer from the Union -- that you don't want to believe the data from the Union -- with data from the Ministry of Health, still in the acute phase of the Galician pandemic is among the five less autonomous communities with less surgical expectation. And for the average surgical structural waiting time, priority 1 in 2001 is 17.8 days; in 2019, 16.7; and in 2018, 19.4 -- they are data --. This last fact reflects what we just said, that in precisely the year of the Galician pandemic it was able to keep an average waiting time for this surgery within the previous values. And it's true that the late oncological diagnoses derived from the pandemic have been reported these days, and the news we see today is that "Galice is below the average of the late oncological diagnoses due to the pandemic." You quoted, Mr. Torrado, the president of the Spanish Medical Oncology Society. But I quote you, the president of the Galician Oncology Society, who says that waiting is much lower; and that in the case, for example, of Vigo's health area -- of which he is the head of the Oncology Service -- in 2020 more patients were treated than in 2019. They're both participating in Vigo -- as you know -- in a national symposium of precision oncology, and they're saying, "Galice in pandemic suffered a less dramatic situation, especially in the first wave. And we acted with some anticipation, hospitals did not collapse here, continued operations, operated fast pathways and radiology. It cannot be compared to other areas, such as Madrid, where it was tremendous, with two or three months of care collapse and hospitals with six oncologists down at the same time by covid." That's what the president of the Galician Oncology Society says. We're not in the same case. As far as prevention is concerned, in fact, at the beginning of the pandemic, it was necessary to speed up the encryption programs -- just like in the rest of the non-emergency activity --. And the early detection program for breast cancer did not paralyze until the completion of the study of all women who gave positive results, who completed their mammographic study. This was a two-month stop, but we have to take something important into account, and it's that participation in the Welsh Breast Cancer Program has a much higher percentage than the European quality guides recommend. The European guides place the percentage of participation by 70%, and in Galicia in 2019 we had 81.8%. Covid-19 has been able to meet the planned targets. And in the program, for example, about colorectal cancer -- which also stopped in those two months -- on July 1st, all areas were already working. In this program too, Galicia has record numbers, with the participation of 450,000 people. Galicia has completed the coverage of 100 percent of the population in 2019, five years before it establishes the National Health System, with crows that work very well -- as you said --. In short, we are talking about cancer care programs that put in place this government, with rapid pathways, guarantee maximum times of surgical waiting or colorectal cancer. And do they need resources? Of course, resources are needed, but of course we think that the best resource is to have this Maximum Times Guarantee Act and to have a decree that develops it -- which also meets --. Therefore, it is important to move this message to the Greeks: Oncology services did not stop working at any time during the pandemic -- even some doing night shifts --. And with regard to cancer diagnostic and intervention services, because this system of guarantees put in place by this government has allowed attention not to be resented, as has been the case in other autonomous communities. We, of course, are fully aware of what happened at the beginning of the pandemic, with the suspension of the cranes, with delays in care and also -- it's important to say it -- with the fear of the patients to go to the hospital or the health center. And we know that in many places this situation is becoming much more serious. We, here in Galicia, have a government in which we trust, which takes measures often pioneers, which puts in place squats and counts with systems established -- like fast ways and maximum times --. And we trust the excellent professionals who carry out this work. We have a government that cares -- and so the data shows -- for the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u142	Thank you, President. So, by order, we will accept the amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. In fact, we, in addition to the content of the amendment you make, agree that it actually enriches and complements our initiative. And this is about having a dialogue, having a joint position, being able to reach agreements and drive initiatives that improve the living conditions of Galicians and Greeks at a time or in such an exceptional context as what we are living in economic, social and health terms, but also if we weren't in a pandemic. And in that sense, we also appreciate the broad support of the Socialist Party. And to me, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, I wasn't quite clear whether they were going to support it or not, but we've been here for a while and we're all going to meet each other, and eventually we're deciphering -- even if it's not said literally -- whether or not. I think it's going closer than not, because they say that there's enough and there's no need to take any exceptional action, no shock plan -- which is what the Galician Nationalist Block formulates --, no reinforcement of that public health -- and especially of primary care --. So we understand your intervention that you don't, that the People's Party will vote that you don't. Then the "no" ones are the others, but well... [[Applause]] I'll just say a question about what you were saying. I was referring in my intervention to some data that are officers, that come from the Union itself and that have been sent to the Socialist Group -- I explained it in my intervention -- in a written response. I specifically referred to that data. Because I think that, in the face of situations like this, there are two options, when you have a problem -- and this is the same for the personal and particular life of everyone as for the public life or politics of a country -- there are two options: there is not to do anything, to say that we are better than half, that we are here, that we are all doing it amazingly and try so, I don't know, not look at the reality we have even if it's in front of the seals, or act. And we believe that the problems, the realities or situations like which we describe here about the situation in which cancer patients and their families find themselves, these situations, even though they are persistently under the carpet, do not disappear. So, if they're also calmer or more at ease, this isn't an exclusive Galician problem, this is a problem that practically has the whole planet, the whole of Europe. And I also referred to the intervention of the person responsible for the World Health Organization for Europe in this respect not of something exclusive of our country but of a reality that we are going to have to confront and collectively address all societies in the member states of the European Union, which is that consultations are taking place -- that is recognized by the Galician Union itself -- and that what we are doing is that diagnostics are taking place. And I was saying in my first intervention -- we said it from the Galician Nationalist Block -- that it's not because of the professional's desire, not even for the government's own wish, but because it touched on us to face a reality that none of the people we were here and no government expected to have to deal with, but that it has, we like more or less, some consequences. And the direct consequences for those people are that we diagnose later because, in fact, those quick ways work but we take more time to get to them. And that's the consequence that prognosis -- in my first intervention it hurts to say it, but we have to recognize it -- are less favorable prognosis when cancer is in a more advanced stage in its evolution. So we believe that we have to take -- if you want the popular expression -- the bull by the horns and we have to face the situation by putting means, resources, personnel and budgets in order to be able to cope with this situation and that these physical health consequences for people who are cancer patients and also deeply emotional -- because the situation in which we find ourselves is already itself, for everyone, very complex in terms of psychological as well -- are as long as possible in time. That was the will with which the Galician Nationalist Block presented this initiative, and not simply as an evaluation of our organization, but also as a reference to the analyses and reflections it did, for example, the Galician Bioethics Council, which does not accuse of deciding any government -- neither do we -- but rather recognizes that the measures and restrictions that had to be adopted have side effects on people who suffer from chronic diseases and diseases, and what we cannot try to put that reality under the carpet. You have to face it, you have to face it, and for us -- which is the most important thing -- you have to put material, budgetary and economic resources to deal with it. We regret -- I leave the margin of doubt of what may happen in the vote because of this lack of clarity on the part of you saying what will be the intention of the majority vote or the majority vote position -- that if we can reach an agreement in an institutional statement, when we have to materialize this in concrete, measurable, tangible measures, we cannot find that same consensus on the part of the People's Parliamentary Group. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-law proposal by G. P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the evaluation by the Galician Union in relation to the benefits of fees and the transfer of AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u144	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u145	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u146	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today, our spokesperson, Mr. Caballero, at the question-control session the president had his hand on Mr. Feijóo to seek the best solution for all and all of the Greeks in connection with the abusive charges of AP-9. Our spokesperson has touched on several occasions on this idea: to work together and to enrich these beaches for the benefit of all of them and of all the Greeks. The president of the board refused this offer, and the only one who sought, as we are used to, is the confrontation with the Government presided over by Pedro Sánchez. The PSdEG -- because it seems that this morning it has also been questioned -- has worked, worked, and will work so that these bonuses will impact the fall in the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks. We're looking for the best deal for the Greeks and the Greeks not only for this year 2021, but for the year 2048. Yes, that date, the date until which Mr Aznar extended the concession of this highway. But our spokesperson also asked the President of the Board, who also gave the floor in answer. He asked him directly whether the Galician Union would be willing to cooperate or, at least, to study the possibility of contributing to these reductions; he asked that he did not get an answer. But Mr. Caballero went over there and asked him even more directly: "If the Central Government rewards the trips back at AP-9, will Galician Union be blessing the ones on its way?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And Mr. Feijóo Chitón, also gave the silent answer. And we sincerely believe that something should say, because it is the direct responsibility of the People's Party to the situation in which this AP-9 motorway is located, with its extended concession until 2048. The Greek Government should report on its plans regarding the possibility of contributing economically to the downsizing of AP-9 to the year 2048. This highway -- as we all know -- vertebrates the three-quarters of Galician population, connects five of the seven major cities of Galicia and has one of the most expensive beaches in the country. While the concessionary company raises one hundred and thirty million a year, its high rates are subject to an abusive burden that limits the mobility and competitiveness of the Greeks and the Greeks. The current situation on this highway is due to the privatization and extension of the AP-9 concession made by Mr. Aznar's Government. On February 4, 2000, Mr Aznar extended the concession until 2048. In 2003, already with the extended concession, Mr. Aznar privatized the highway, being -- coincidences of life -- Mr. Feijóo -- who also gave the silence for reply -- adviser to Public Works. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in the light of today's morning's words by Mr Feijóo, I repeat that since the PSdeG we have defended the reduction in the rates of AP-9, as well as the transfer of it to Galicia; historical claim this one, but already claimed for the first time by that then President of the Galician Union, Mr. Pérez Touriño, in 2005, and which was forgotten since the arrival of Feijóo to the Greek Government in 2009. The proposal for the transfer of AP-9 was debated and approved in this parliament on several occasions, but it must be remembered that Mr. Rajoy's Government -- that as far as I know it is Greek -- has blocked it at the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, its president being Mrs. Pastor -- also the Greek -- and they have prevented these two Greeks that this relevant question for Galicia had been debated in Madrid. Mr. Rajoy and Mrs. Pastor, two pro Galicians, blocking the AP-9 transfer debate at the Congress of Deputies. And the truth is that she strongly draws attention to the fact that Mrs. Pastor had acted against the Greeks and the Greeks, after that in 2014 she had affected the extension of the concession of AP-9 made by her government. He said, "I'm not the one who made a concession until 2047." Well, wrong about the date, because we all knew that the concession was extended until the year 2048, and most of all she should have known, that she was Minister of Development when she made those statements. But if you are not directly responsible for this extension, it is only to do nothing when you were Minister of Development. Of course, he is responsible for vetoing, as President of the Bureau of Congress, the debate on transfer to the Congress of Deputies. But of course!, this government has arrived that says the Galego Nationalist Block and that says the People's Party that discriminates against Galicia, and the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez has arrived in Madrid and, oh!, has lifted that veto. Because yes, the Government of Pedro Sánchez arrived and in December 2018 ended with Mr Rajoy's veto, and the Congress approved consideration of the proposal adopted in this very Parliament of Galicia. [[Applause]] The subsequent election call, as we all know, prevented the full process of this transfer law from taking place in Congress. And here I also want to make a point on the statements made today morning by the spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block, of Mrs. Pontón, who said that since the PSdEG we have not worked at anything for the bonuses and for the transfer of AP-9, but I must say that when this consideration was taken to the Congress of Deputies, which was in December 2018, the Nationalist Block Galego there had no representation in Madrid and, of course, the Socialist Party took that vote in consideration. As I said, the election call prevented the proceedings from continuing, but again, this procedure and this debate were re-approved on the 2nd day of this month. We are currently following the parliamentary procedures of this organic transfer law so that it can finally be put to the vote and so that this request for the transfer of AP-9 can finally be a reality. But more importantly, even, that transfer is the question of lowering the rates. The Government chaired by Pedro Sánchez was sensitive to this issue and made a determined bet on the state's general budgets for the year 2021, with a share of sixty-three million euros for the bonus of these fees, which would entail a historical and substantial reduction in the rates of this infrastructure; historical and substantial reduction that would not be viable without the approval of the State accounts for the year 2021. And it must be remembered that these subsidies would not be possible without State budgets. And here the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block voted against the €60 million bonus to subsidize AP-9's peas. The Galego Nationalist Block always refers to that investment agreement, but, ladies and gentlemen, the investment agreement speaks of the fact that after the adoption of the budgets, that bonus would be made. So, two points: first, budget approval; then, bonus the fees. But the BNG voted against these budgets; therefore, it voted against these bonuses and it could be said that even it broke that investment agreement, because if it wasn't, ladies of the Galician Nationalist Block, they would like to bonus those fees without the 2021 budgets. [[Applause]] To sum up, the People's Party, in addition to voting against the fines of the fee for the year 2021, in addition to extending the concession, was the one who privatized this highway, and also voted against, above all, vetoing the debate of the transfer in Congress of Deputies. On the contrary, the PSOE envisages sixty-three million euros for the bonuses in those 2021 budgets and it was also what brought the veto of the People's Party to that transfer. So -- as I often say -- it's not the same thing as ruling one another. The PSOE and the PSdEG are working to make that deal with the concessionaire set up a fee discount, but it's important that it not only be for the year 2021, but also until the year 2048, and to make that agreement the most beneficial for all the Greeks and all the Greeks. As of course, the socialists want the discounts to be done as soon as possible, but the most important thing is that it's a good deal with major discounts for the next twenty-seven years, not just for the year 2021. PP has done nothing to reduce AP-9 fees. It was opposed -- as I said -- to state budgets and opposed to those 63.2 million euros for the bonus of AP-9 fees. Now we don't know if you're going to collaborate with the Government of Spain and if you're going to find a solution to be able to collaborate on that fee bonus, because you can. If you want, you can, because other autonomic governments have increased tolls on state highways. For example: Rioxa, Catalonia, Andalusia and Aragon. So today, what we bring through this non-law proposition is, above all, knowing this position of the People's Party, if you're willing to follow, if you're willing to start working to look for these bonuses in the rates of AP-9, or if you're just going to look for a confrontation with the central government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u148	Finished, President. In fact, we at the last point of our proposal what we say is: "To inform the Galician Parliament about the plans of the Greek Government in relation to the possibility of contributing economically in the lower rates of the AP-9 to the end of the concession in 2041." And there the People's Party has a lot of responsibility. So it's time they're already talking about whether or not they're going to bet on these AP-9 peas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u150	For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u151	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Bará speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u152	I'm going to count to ten, because what we need to hear! As we've said many times, AP-9 has a story; a long story, which is a story that started being a knife and ended up being a robbery, a robbery to the armed box, literally. And this wasn't by chance, it was because this theft had beneficiaries, who were the Audasa dealership, who won a lot of millions, and also the state. The state is one of the great beneficiaries of this scam and this cop, because it's bringing a lot of money into the AP-9 account, and we'll give the figures. They're partners. And in this policy there were two necessary co-operatives, who were the People's Party and the Socialist Party, turning into government and favoring Audasa. Everyone's got it, right, because the PSOE made an extension of the concession. [[Applause]] Mrs. Patricia Otero had a memory lapse and she didn't mind saying that the PSOE also extended the concession ten years, until 2023. If I hadn't extended it we'd be without paying fees now, as they are in other territories of the state. And then came Mr. Aznar, of the People's Party, and still doubled the bet; more than doubled, because he extended the concession to 2048, so we have a conviction for seventy-five years, which is the maximum concession period that state highways have by law. This is the reality. And I would like to ask a question on both sides, on the right and on the left: why are we talking about bonus issues today? We're talking about it here because BNG put it in the agenda and in the investment negotiation, the investment agreement. That's why!, because I wasn't on the agenda this topic!, I wasn't! It's because BNG put it on, and that's why you talk about casualties. This is, of course, an investment agreement, which was not a blank check; it was not a legislative agreement or budget approval. It was the investment agreement that had an AP-9 point and had twelve more points, Mrs. Otero, that they're not meeting! And that's why, as they're failing to do, BNG votes for these agreements, which are not agreements with the BNG, they are agreements with Galicia and they must be fully complied with! They must be fulfilled in full. One cannot fail to sign in the documents, because one who loses is Galicia because of the responsibility of the Socialist Party. In that agreement there was a star theme; it is true. And the star theme was AP-9, and so all the media reflected it. Press headlines: "The BNG starts" -- curiously, it calls attention or verb -- "to the PSOE the transfer of the AP-9 and reductions in the tolls", Vigo Light; Galician Voice: "The BNG starts the PSOE an agreement for the transfer of the AP-9 and bonuses in the tolls"; Gallego Mail -- or three from the Atlantic Axis -- : "The BNG starts the transfer of the AP-9 and bonuses in the tolls". What a curious coincidence! So, I was worried about going to the Royal Academy dictionary and looking for the meaning of "starting," and it says, "Regime" I also looked for it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] In the end, Mr. Faixóo has problems with the dictionary and the language. And with more things! [[Applause shy.]] Also with Genova's thirst... we can talk about it all morning. What does the RAG dictionary say?"Boot: get something from someone with skill and effort, winning some resistance." Well, I can say here that it wasn't "some resistance"; it was a lot of resistance from the Socialist Party! Because I've got all the versions of the deal and how it's changed the writing, and how we've been making millions of them day by day for the deal. Above all in this question that has been concrete, because at first it was a study, to see how the reduction of the fees could be done. And it was thanks to that negotiation, by the way, by a great Member like Néstor Rego! This also demonstrates the importance of having insubmitted voices there defending this country, without ties! [[Applause]] That is the importance of being represented in Madrid. But this to some sprays very, of course, because they were very quiet there without that clear, round voice, defending Galician interests. And this also emphasizes all the political, social and institutional work that is being done on this issue. By the way, there is a Member who has also been fighting in Madrid countless times, such as Rosana Pérez, defending the interests of Galicia, constantly taking the question of AP-9 to the plenary debate of the Congress of Deputies. [[Applause]] We want to let him... Calm down, yes! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On skating or sidecar, members of the Catalan People's Party are now going to the meetings of the Catalan Parliament. So you better shut up, you better not spit up that you can fall down! [[Applause]] Besides, it's best to have one, but to do a decent job, as always did the BNG, than to have twenty-three that don't do anything. It's better to have one than twenty-three! [[Applause]] Having said this, we also want to make it clear to the Socialist Party. This is no funny concession that Galicia generously makes. You say, "Thank you and acknowledge the Government's efforts." But what effort? If the central government or the state has been cashing! It brings more than two thousand three hundred million on AP-9 to the state's archives, and it's about returning only part of it. It's nothing funny or generous, or anything we have to thank. It's fair! That's what this country deserves and what this country has to have. Some of these EUR 1,586 million that has entered the State for privatization and some of the more than seven hundred million that has entered the VAT account and, also, the corporate tax account; by the way, repeatedly lowered by one another for the benefit of Audasa, who pays taxes in Madrid. Here's an order, but taxes are paid in Madrid. This is the reality of AP-9. So, when they called him "navalled," they were very short, because it was a real scam and it's being a real scam. And the state is a partner of this scam. And those price cuts and these agreements that have been made must be made without delay and without excuses of ill-paying. There's no reason to delay those agreements for the free return trip. And here I also want to make a reference to the People's Party and the Galician Union, because it turns out that the BNG gets a deal, literally starts a very beneficial deal, and the Union wants to lower it; it wants to lower it by 50%. They made a proposal that lowers what BNG gets, which is 100 percent of the bonus, that is, the free trip back every day of the week for light and transport, for professionals. And it turns out that Junta wants to lower it. But, well, Junta has a lot to shut up because the People's Party has been taking part and complicit in all the measures -- the most damaging -- that have been adopted with respect to AP-9, starting with privatization, the extension of concession, the increases in rates repeated throughout all the years that have been ruling Mr. Rajoy -- that in Spanish has a lot, but every time in English has less --. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph of PP members taken in front of Rande Bridge.]] And you came to paroxysm to be the protagonists of this photograph: the whole larger, smaller and medium-sized plane of the People's Party peddling, on December 30, 2017, in front of Rande bridge to inaugurate... you know what? Enlargement, not of a bridge, but the application of new fees, because they made the meeting of this photo on the last day of the year in order to immediately apply new fees and the increase of 1%. And now pick up the clothes by 1%, if you were to inaugurate 1% in this photograph. [[Applause]] But what are they saying? By the way, a few days earlier Mr. Fernández Prado said here that it was demagogic to ask for lower taxes, because the agreements must be complied with. And then they come here to teach us what? Just like the subject of transfer, which I no longer say anything, because I think it is more than clear that it was the BNG who brought it repeatedly to this parliament, that there were up to three unanimous agreements in this parliament, which was repeatedly vetoed by the People's Party. And since 2018, that consideration has been taken, Mrs. Otero, there has also been time for the transfer, which can be done via the Joint Transfer Commission. What are you waiting for to summon her? There is also in the agreement the call of the Joint Committee and the transfer of AP9 and other matters, many transfers, which are pending. So if we focus the ball on them, at least some of them finish it, because we're not going to do that job for them, too. Do something, do something about the transfer. What we can't admit, of course, no way, we're not going to admit, is that you come here to propose that Galicia, that the board pay even more to AP-9. Do you want to do the same thing as Meirás? What do we pay again? So we're going to say no, that we don't agree with that, that the one who has to pay is the state. Because the state is taking a lot of trouble on the account of all the Galicians and the Greeks, who pay the fees every day, that robbery and that robbery. Just like the suppression of the fee between Round it and Vigo, without excuses; there is no excuse. Now we've seen in the press that they come with excuses, because there's no excuse. And we also say one thing: that transfer is important, but it's not enough; it's a first step, because we're never going to give up defending an AP-9 Galician, fully Greek and free of fees. It's fair! Besides, it's already being done on many other state highways. It was between Burgos and Arminón; it was between Tarragona and Alacante; it is about to be done, in August, between Zaragoza and Barcelona, between Tarragona and the French border. And we, for the responsibilities of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, want us to keep paying until 2048. And no! we say no, that it is enough! that we have already paid enough!, that we have to return part of what we've been stolen and that, therefore, we're not going to admit it. We want, it's fair, an AP-9 gallega and free of fees, and we're going to keep fighting for it until the end. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u153	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Calvo Pouso has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u154	Mr. President, thank you very much. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that this initiative would now be withdrawn from the agenda, at the request of the Socialist Group. I am surprised, above all, after hearing in the debate this morning the questions to the President, the intervention of the socialist spokesman and the intervention of the President of the Union. But beyond that, if we looked at the history of parliamentaryism here in Galicia, we would never be able to find an initiative like this. I am not surprised that other experienced Members do not advocate this initiative, because it is not unusual to ask for this recognition and to ask for it and to express in writing what is expressed today through this initiative. This initiative is the greatest submission of the history of Galician democracy of the Socialist Party of Galicia to the Socialist Party of Spain. It is the greatest submission that has ever been seen in this parliament. Because it's normal for you to defend your government when you're in Madrid, it's normal for you to look for arguments to try to defend what your action is, but what makes no sense is to present such an initiative. It seems to be looking for the party's leadership, now that they're talking about changes in the party's regional directions. I suppose Mr. Gonzalo Caballero's photo with the secretary of organization, Mr. Abalos, last week or two weeks ago will have much to do with this initiative. It's too bad they have to be seeing things! But let's focus on the initiative, because this brings the debate to its explanatory statement -- which is drafted --... Mr. Bará said to count to ten; I'm not going to count, because I'm not going to come in. I'm sure we all make mistakes in AP-9 management. I'm sure it could be done. But look: "The cow for what it's worth!", like a television ad. The first party, Mrs Otero, which increased the concession of AP-9 was the Socialist Party. I brought you here the BOE, I'm not taking you to the scene, because I don't need the photograph, but it's the BOE of September 7, 1994, signed by Mr. Borrel, Minister, and being Secretary of Infrastructure Mr. Tourinño. [[Mr. Calvo Souto shows the House a copy of the BOE of September 7, 1994.]] I don't know if you heard me, but Mr. Tourinño was the first to increase it. So when the initiative says that Mr. Touriño was the first one to worry about increasing the concession ten more years, it is true, totally true! And then they said, and Mr. Bará also said, "Hi! it is that Aznar came and increased the concession"; it is also true! True, Aznar has also increased the concession. But you know what? I'm from San Sadurniño. Yes, yes, I'm from San Sadurniño. When I came to study Santiago and a year to Vigo, I took the highway in Guisamo, in Santa Marta de Babío: forty-five minutes; I had to get in my car to take the highway, because... no, allow me, Mr. Bará, allow me! [[Mr. Bará Torres protesting.]] I know you think it's not worthy of the work of many Members, but let me explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u155	Silence, Mr Bará! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u156	Let me explain, that it is equally worthy of the work of all Members, indeed, whether they are from Catalonia or on the other side. [[Applause]] Look: when I was studying in Santiago I had to come to Guisamo to take the highway, because Galicia, for the Socialist Party in Madrid, was only the reference between Vigo and La Coruña, and the rest of Galicia did not exist, including the northern part of the Atlantic axis. It didn't exist. And we've been on our way to Santa Marta de Babío for many years. To go to Santiago, it was almost as good as going on the national road as coming on the highway, if you came from Ferrol. And when Aznar arrived, and thanks also to a boat, because it's true!, because a boat broke down and broke the bridge, Aznar took the determination to extend the highway to Ferrol, and the last free frame. We can agree or not, we can consider that if we could do otherwise, I'm sure! The Galician Nationalist Block, if it were for them, would not, because when they talked about the highway, it was a "navalada" and it couldn't be carried out. That's the position of the Galician Nationalist Block, even though they're now telling stories or hanging banners. That's the story. So can we agree with the increase in Aznar's concession? Yes. Can we believe it could be done differently? Sure. But the whole northern part of Galicia has a highway, and free of charge from the first day, thanks to the government of Aznar. So history must tell it all and not stay in half. [[Applause]] By the way, they said in the morning intervention, in a period of economic crisis, because when Aznar arrived at Moncloa, he had to ask for a loan to pay the pensions. And today morning we heard another voice from the Socialist Party say no, that now things can't be done because we're in crisis. We've been in crisis ever since the coward showed up a year ago, in economic crisis. But it's incredible what they're saying! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And they say Rajoy vetoed it at Congress. Yes, it's true: one of the initiatives was asked to rescue the highway and the subsequent transfer. Should we see the Socialist Party, if today, on the initiative that we discussed a few weeks ago in Madrid, would we first ask for the ransom and then the transfer? We've seen what the Socialist Party voted for in the Congress of Deputies. But what Rajoy did was one thing. There was a government, a government of nationalists, the Bloc, Quintana and Mr. Tourin, which together with Zapatero -- the government was both, right? -- they've reached an agreement: raise the toll in Rande and Barcala and decide to pay the Greeks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And those were you. On a highway -- as you say -- the state paid the Greeks for lifting the toll. And now they're offended because the Socialist Party comes to ask them the same thing you did when they ruled! Yes, sir, that's what the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block did. And what did Rajoy do? Rajoy with the People's Party said, "No, if the highway is from the state, the lifting of the beaches pays the State. And that's also Rajoy's fault. Yeah, yeah, yeah, he's guilty, Rajoy. And what does the Socialist Party do? First, sign the contract and now ask us for the money -- as the president told us in the morning -- in a letter. It's the first time the state goes to an autonomous community to ask for a letter to pay a company, and that's with the Ministry member, but we don't talk about those things. But the Socialist Party, moreover, with Zapatero and with Sánchez, shielded that rise of the beaches until the year 2048 by royal decree: in 2018, 2.15 %; in 2019, 3.51 %; in 2020, 2.69 %; in 2021, 0.92%. And now on this initiative, they ask us to put money on the budget of the Greeks to reduce the toll, when in other autonomous communities the concessions are being rescued, or whether they're reducing the tolls. I mean, we pay again. I suppose at this point we'll be lost, but let's sum up: the Socialist Party tells us that we received AP-9; that we paid Audasa for the toll of Barcala and Rande -- that Rajoy agreed to pay when Sánchez doesn't want -- that we take over the pending works; that we now put more money to reduce the fees you've authorized. And all this that we thank the Socialist Party for. But this is a joke! This is a provocation in every rule! It's hard to get to a top end. But as reality exceeds fiction, today, or yesterday, when the amendments are presented, the Nationalist Block Galego arrives, and we see it here today in the intervention. What it's all about is knowing who's hanging more medals. We're about to say, hey, this Socialist Party thing, no. This is done because the Block says so. And we also thank the Members who have been there for years; we thank them for those who passed by; we thank them for those who hung the banners at the gates in the cities. And we are responsible for all this. [[Murmurs.]] Well, they even tell us what's worthy of parliamentary work and others don't. And he said the voice of the Galego Nationalist Block this morning, that it was "bochornous" to see the debate between the president of the board and the spokesman of the Socialist Group. Don't! And then a deputy told us that taking a picture was already done. Well, I suppose that's what I'd say when you saw his voicemail today go to the seat of the president of the board and hand him a paper. I suppose that picture's already taken to turn the day. I suppose, because what you think for one, they'll think for another. [[Murmurs.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we present an initiative in Congress. At the same time, at the same time, we call for the initiative to be continued in Congress, at the same time, to reduce the fees that have been committed. We haven't known anything for months, and the Galician Council has made a proposal. Nothing is reduced, Mr Bará, what is said is that with those money that is in state budgets you can make a proposal. We, who know which is the management of the highway and what are the needs, have done a: free travel back to teleweaving; for trips within twenty-four hours, an additional 25% discount, and 60% for all travels of heavy vehicles and reduced rates at night hours. As you continue to process, you have to lift the toll of Round it; we agree with you, and you have to do the committed works that there was, for example, in Chapel. What does the Joint Transfer Commission have to do with you? We agree, you can go get together. Of course, you can go together between the state and the Union. And you know that the transfer, socialist gentlemen, is not a transfer on paper; transfers are actual transfers, at the cost that the State spends on maintaining and investing in that infrastructure. We have to talk about vial 18, of the third highway between Guísamo and La Coruña, of the acoustic screens, of the link between A-54 and AP-9, of the reform of Pontevedra firefighting knot. Finally, you can go and do those things, of course! But the initiative presented here today by the Socialist Party was not an initiative to improve the lives of the Greeks, it was not an initiative to advance a process in the transition of AP-9, no! It was to put a medal on Pedro Sánchez. And when we present an amendment, thinking about the procedures we have to do and the steps we continue to take, the BNG arrives to put on the medal after the banners. [[Murmurs.]] Well, here's what's going on! [[Applause]] On that way, gentlemen, they won't find us. We tabled an amendment to continue working on the highway, to continue working on the reduction of fees, and so much work remains to be done to make it necessary to sit down. We agree. We have asked that this commission between the Union and the Government be brought together on five occasions, and they have not answered us. But there was time to receive the secretary general and lay down his duties. Finally, let's hope that an agreement can be reached to show that what we're interested in is the reduction in the fee and the transfer of AP-9. I'll let you, Mr. President, this one, where Mr. Tourinño was increasing the concession, in any case... no, no, I'll leave you here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not for the photo! [[Protests.]] I could take it to you, but I won't!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u157	No, no, watch out, the protocol system! No, I already know that we're going to meet all the rules.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u158	I'll put it to the services so there's no problem. The photos are for something else!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u159	Very well spoken by the vice president. That's the procedure: through the services of the House. That's the procedure! Please, let's all do that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u160	Thank you, President. Mr. Calvo, I could also leave the BOE when this highway was privatized, and when Mr. Núñez Feijóo was counsellor; he could also leave that BOE so we could compare it with each other as well. [[Applause]] You were talking about that on more than five occasions we called for the meeting and the celebration of that joint commission, and I ask you, how long have they been demanding the celebration of this commission?, before 2018? Because before... no, no, of course! Mr Bará said one thing: the transfer could be done in two ways, either through that debate, that consideration and then the consequence of legal proceedings, or it could be done through that joint commission. And the People's Party and Mr. Núñez Feijóo never asked for that joint commission when he was ruling the People's Party in Madrid. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're now asking for things -- as I always say -- before 2018 they didn't ask for them. So, you've been clarifying yourself since when they've applied for this joint commission. You were also talking about that the Galego Nationalist Block appreciated the work of Members and Members, and today you seem to be the novices and the novices because it does not consider us, it does not allow us to bring initiatives from this silence, because it started its intervention. [[Applause]] Of course, I can't have the same experience as you have in this camera, because it's been a lot more years than I have in this house. You also said, after questions to the president, that I thought we should withdraw this initiative. No! it is that after the President of the Galician Union had not responded to our spokesman, because we have to ask him whether the People's Party is really going to bet on cooperating or, at least, studying the possibility of collaborating in the downside of those sins. Of course, you also clarify a document and a writing of what the president of Galicia spoke about in the morning, and you who are bannermen of the rule of law, of the separation of powers, what are you asking us to do, Mr. Calvo? Because of what you're talking about, when you say the government demands the Board to pay Rande and Barcala again, that's a court order. The concessionaire appealed against the decisions taken by a Minister of the People's Party. So, what will the Government of Pedro Sánchez do, don't you take a judicial decision? Tell me: What is the position of the People's Party? Is there or is there no separation of powers in Spain? Are we going to breach what is established in a court order? Because that's very important also that they say it, and that they don't distort reality, and that they say it's the government's will to demand that amount, which, by the way, the president of the board spoke of 400 million and I think it's 15.65 plus 1.76 million more. But it's because the government demands the Board to send the concessionaire to the decision of De La Serna, who has left without paying to Rande and Barcala's company, and there's a court ruling. They're very interested in us from the PSdeG to know whether or not we have to abide by the judicial decisions. [[Applause]] So we continue with that tender hand that he made today our spokesman, Mr. Knight, to collaborate and to seek the best solution in the lower part of those beaches until 2048, not only until 2021. Mr. Bará said that this began to be a "battle" and ended up being an armed robbery. Well, the truth is, with your position, with your vote, what you don't want is to stop this robbery by the armed hand. You don't want me in the police -- I know your position -- to cut that robbery to the armed hand. If we're talking about bonuses today, it's because the PSOE put the bonuses in the state's general budgets; that's why we're talking about bonuses. Mr. Bará spoke: no, it's a study. No, it's a reality, this game is contemplated in the general state budgets. Because I repeat, Mr. Bará: how did you intend to subsidise these fees without the general budgets of the state? Tell me, beyond criticizing the PSOE, which is BNG's proposal, the concrete proposal to compensate for these sins. [[Applause]] You -- let me -- announce the investment agreement and we announce reality. We announce the general budgets of the state, which are the ones that contemplate this bonus
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u162	For my part, that's all. It's a shame we won't know if the Galician Union is willing to collaborate or not on that bonus of the beaches that benefit everyone and all the Galicians.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u163	Do you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u164	No, we don't accept the amendments. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u165	It's a shame, now that I'm in trouble with this. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the People's Government of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and 14 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the situation of women in the labour and family sphere
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u166	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u167	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Paula Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a previous question -- and without Ourense -- I'd like to say that the Entrood began on February 4, Thursday, and ended on Wednesday 17... well, it's just like it's way back... well, well, yeah, I'm a lot to celebrate! [[Murmurs.]] I was about to set a date. It's not when it starts, but when it's over, and it's over on February 17, Wednesday, okay? [[Laughter]] No, I wonder if it ends with the burial of the sardine or the burning of Meco, because Meco burns on February 17th, it doesn't hang on February 19th. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that I know in Compostela this year there was no Meco, Mrs. Rodil. The truth is, when I read the tweets you've put on lately, I see there was no ingenuity. You wrote a tweet saying, "Getting into Hasel's prison. Two years of string to sing," whitening violence, whitening violence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u169	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u170	Just like you tried to do here today with Mrs. Calvo. Because when I said that those who didn't condemn these acts were in the Government, I said it for things like this, Mrs. Rodil. Because this isn't a guy, and he wasn't a guy when Mr. José Manuel Rey and Mr. Feijó hung up on the hall when there was a demonstration in Ferrol on the theme of the fleet. [[Mr. Prado del Río shows two photographs.]] These kinds of questions are the ones I condemn, Mrs. Rodil; me and our group. And that you refuse today to condemn this violence and that you, precisely, have put that ground in saying that this gentleman goes to prison for singing, so naively, Mrs. Rodil, the truth is that it is surprising, because Mr. Hasel is not in prison for singing. Mr. Hasél is in prison because he's a criminal, convicted in firm judgment of rising terrorism and insulting the crown. He has a criminal record for assaulting a journalist and a witness in a trial, for assaulting an urban guard when he was trying to assault the Government Sub-Delegation in Lérida... and not talking about the macho lyrics this gentleman has in those songs -- for calling them something, because singing does not sing anything, Mrs. Rodil; just like you listen to his music, there you!-- But then you're upset that Mr. President of the Board says you're radicals. Actually, today you fell down the lamb skin that they put for the July 12 election, Mrs. Rodil, I told you. I condemned this violent act that was done in the name of feminism, because I asked that we not consent to that confrontation in which some of us want to get involved, also in feminism. [[Applause]] I call for consensus in the field of equality. But, of course, listening to your Members -- as one member of your group said the other day, that "the consensus is very overrated" and that "the world has not advanced by consensus, but by conflicts," -- everything is now explained, Mrs. Rodil. You whiten the violence, and we won't allow it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, coming into... No, no, you can say if you're a guy, that if you're... No, it's whitewash of violence! [[Murmurs.]] As I told you one day, you are the inheritors of the Tide of Podemos, and now you see more and more. And these kinds of things certify... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u171	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u172	...that stuff! No, of course, they're now doing some tests on those street fences to see if they can give the money back to all those who left. Soon we'll see them again in the BNG ranks. [[Laughter]] Well, I'm going to talk about important issues, which are the ones that brought us here today. Women's inclusion in the labour market and their permanence in employment, as well as their working conditions, ladies and gentlemen, are still far from equal. [[Murmurs.]] And we're not going to conquer full equality until men also incorporate domestic care and household chores to the same extent as women into the labour market. Statistics continue to reveal that there is an unequal reality in wages, professional promotion, access to still heavily masculine areas and sectors, as well as in women's participation in decision-making. The impact of the genera of the coward-19, or the crisis caused by this pandemic, affects men and women differently. This has been analysed by several bodies: ILO, the UN, OECD, the European Union, the Women's Institute... and they all agree to point out that the triple dimension of this pandemic -- the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis -- has a different impact between men and women, and the response to this crisis must incorporate a fundamentally gender-based approach. They highlight reports -- as I said earlier -- for example, the UN, which say that women play an essential role in the fight against coward 19 as the main caregivers in homes, in family networks, in community spaces, as workers and professionals in the health sector -- overrepresented in cleaning services -- and as domestic workers and basic services -- like supermarkets or pharmacies -- and care tasks within homes are also falling mostly in women, who usually have the responsibility of caring for relatives and sick, older people, dependents, as well as children and children. The Women's Institute also stressed that women continue to carry out most of their domestic work and care for dependent people -- paid and unpaid -- and that they also assume a higher mental burden derived from this. Therefore, in this regard, one of the greatest challenges we have in the future is the reconciliation of personal, family and work life, and responsibility in the domestic and family spheres. The unequal distribution of family responsibilities and home responsibilities constitutes one of the main obstacles for women's participation and permanence and their job promotion to be fully promoted. There is no doubt that full equality in the workplace will be possible only if there is a fair and balanced assumption of domestic work and home care. We have to bet on a model of co-responsible society in which men and women share household and family responsibilities in a balanced way, within the framework of the necessary cultural change also around the use of time. It is necessary to promote awareness of society as a whole in favour of a responsible social organization and more rational schedules. The Government of the Union is giving priority to these issues through, for example, the orders of aid to implement employment equality, conciliation and social and business responsibility. By 2020 this order had 2 million euros and it had three lines: Line 1 was the development and implementation of equality plans, so important for companies and for them to be fulfilled, and that prevents inequalities in the workplace. Line 2 was conciliation, which in turn has three sub-lines: the first, incentives for promoting telework; the second, incentives for promoting time flexibility; and the third, incentives for investment to guarantee and improve the right to reconcile work and family life. And the other line, line 3, is the certification of social and business responsibility, which are grants for obtaining a certification or a verification or validation report for codes of conduct, standards or standards of corporate social responsibility. Well, as you know and as the Labour Adviser announced here, you're working on these same lines of the previous year and also in support of the Maternity or Paternity Reconciliation of the Self-Employment Person; also in promoting and consolidating employment in small- and newly-created enterprises and in qualified enterprises as technology-based employment initiatives, which includes grants for the reconciliation of personal, work and family life of promoters. It is also essential for us to amend and draw up a legal text. The amendment of the Law on the Reconciliation of Labour and Family Life is from 1999, a Government of the People's Party, but it's 20 years ago. There were royal decrees, there were orders, there were timely changes, but we believe that now is important to make an integral amendment of this law to adapt it to the new times, both labor and the demographic challenge we are facing in Galicia -- in Spain, but in Galicia especially -- And we also called for the approval of a wage equality law. It is a historic claim of this Parliament. We have approved this question several times, unanimously from all groups. Mr Sánchez also promised it; he promised it both on the day of the motion of censure and in his January 2020 investment debate. It was one of your promises that it was going to be a reality. In October, they passed a royal decree on equal pay between women and men, but this royal decree put aside the parliamentary debate, which these days in this Parliament and these debates have already been said that parliamentary debate was needed. Well, it's left out of the parliamentary debate wage equality, but it's also forgotten to deal with such important issues and, in addition, endemic problems of labour discrimination, such as the reduction of women's daytime by the care of minors and people in dependency or gender-based violence in the workplace -- it doesn't pick up that decree either -- among other issues that had to be addressed. We presented an initiative with six points in relation to all of this that I was saying: to promote conciliation measures and programmes and measures that encourage co-responsibility; to implement equality plans; to raise awareness and raise awareness of more rational co-responsibility and timetables; to study, in collaboration with the German universities, to analyse the distribution of domestic work -- it seems to us essential -- both of the care of minors and dependent people and of the tasks of home, to define new actions in this regard, and to take into account the development of measures called "intersectionality"; and two points to ask the Government of the State to amend the Conciliation Law and the adoption of the Pay Equality Act. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u174	Thank you, President. Good morning -- it's almost late now. Indeed, as has been said here, we are still very far from achieving equality between men and women, in any area, certainly, but it is particularly worrying that one depends only on the political capacity of governments, economic agents, which has to do with employment, with wages, with conciliation and even with the organization of times. We already know, because that is what international, state, and some public university studies indicate -- it also says, for example, that the University of Vigo, who did a study on her graduates and graduates -- it's not now the subject, but I know that today, in the audience, the spokesperson of the People's Party did not comment on this study, but in the explanatory statement if one speaks of a study that the Council has prepared. This is one of the reasons why we asked the advisor this afternoon as well. This study is not yet conducted, but it's a summary -- and you also brought it here, and well brought -- from the Institute of Women -- the old Institute of Women and for Equal Opportunities -- which was published in December. We said that this crisis, indeed, affected women more than men. They are more the ones who have lost their jobs, the autonomous ones who have been frustrated by their companies, the ones who have suffered a ERA... but they are also more... sorry, we are more, the ones who have cheated on the classes of our children, the ones that our parents and mothers, grandparents and dependent people, the ones who care both about the professional work and the tasks of home... we have, we have been, the ones who suffer the most from those effects on our own career, and even on our own well-being. And, of course, now is not the time to deal with this issue, but it has also been greater the torture of victims of male violence, of women victims of male violence. The United Nations itself warned that the crisis has highlighted both the fundamental importance of women's approaches and the disproportionate burdens we bear. And if it was little, it must be added to it new obstacles, which add up to those of a social and systemic nature that persisted before and which hinder the participation and leadership of women. Because even though women, for example, are mostly among the front line staff in this health crisis, we are still underrepresented in power spaces and in decision-making. That's why we need to intervene so that this crisis doesn't leave anyone behind and that it doesn't take us, women, either. We have a great opportunity before us, and now we have an important injection in the form of European funds that give us the opportunity to invest -- eye! -- to generate new structures, but also, and more importantly, to modify or change those old ones that, of course, are showing that they are not effective at achieving those equality goals. We must look at women who suffer from greater precaution, we must direct our public policies to close the many, many, still pending cracks, such as work, wages. That's what we're talking about today. My companion Carmen Rodríguez today gave data that I think if all or all of us were careful here today they give us a lot of thought about that pay gap we're suffering, even at work. We're talking about the digital divide or even the co-responsibility itself. It is, of course, very important for us to focus precisely on that co-responsibility. We believe it's one of the big issues that must be addressed in this century and in this moment of a new moment -- because it's so -- social that we're living. These actions are designed to promote co-responsibility and correct all of the situations of women's inequality, from rural to scientific or technological, because none of these are static compartments and only by addressing this issue cross-cuttingly can we design the correct mechanisms to end inequality. We're talking about inequality, and I want to bring here also the warning that the three directors of the Greek universities in the Reactivation Commission were making when they said that the scientific production of women had diminished in those months of confinement, where we were all working at home -- of course, the scientific activity of women, the scientific production, has decreased -- but it didn't happen the same with the scientific activity of men, which has increased. So, of course, they themselves -- those three rectors -- mentioned this by warning this important crack that's happening there. We, of course, as could not be otherwise, are going to support this proposal. Today we socialists are very proud to belong to a party that has been able to banner the achievement of women's rights and freedoms, to make it a reality, to transfer fair claims to legislation and public policies. But, of course, we can't fool ourselves, there's still a lot, a lot to do, and a lot to go on. This pandemic was, unfortunately, the worst sign of this I'm saying now. With this crisis came the situation of inequality in which many women still live today and for those to be led -- I repeat -- all our efforts. With regard to the non-legislative proposal that we are debating and for which I have just announced our vote in favour, we certainly think that there is a need for programmes and plans for reconciliation and co-responsibility, also for awareness, and there is a need for greater flexibility in working and regulating teleworking. But with regard to teleworking, I also want to make a slaughter here. Professor Maria Bastida, in the Reactivation Commission, warned -- and we agreed -- that we must first ensure that co-responsibility, that compliance with co-responsibility, so that telework is really something equal. It's no use for us to work from home if the organization remains the same as it has so far. Equality plans and payrolls are also essential, and that is why we celebrate the adoption last October of Royal Decree 901/2020 of 13 October, which re-regulates these plans, but already with the express obligation to record them and, in addition, to conduct audits. Of course we also agree with the conduct of studies and that we take into account the cross-sectionality, certainly, in any of the actions that are about to take place. It's very important. In addition, we propose three amendments which we understand could improve this proposal not by law. We will agree with all the people present here that the perspective of gender needs to be applied to any political action, but that must not be left alone, it must be put into practice. And, of course, at this moment in the midst of a health, social and economic crisis, it seems essential to start by ensuring that women are part of the decision-making centres of the committees or bodies that are managing the pandemic. That is why we propose to add a point where mechanisms are established to ensure parity in all those decision-making centers, in all those pandemic management centers. Only in this way can we guarantee a feminist vision and the inclusion of the gender perspective in the actions being carried out. In addition, we also propose to add that you review the French plan for reconciliation and co-responsibility 2018-2021 to update it to the new reality arising from the pandemic. We are aware that today's three-year-old scenario is radically different, but it's still more the answer that must be given to the new emerging problems. That's why we're asking you to make that update of that German plan. And, finally, in the demands of the State Government, we just make a little slaughter. Of course, we think it's important to pass a wage equality law. It's not important, but it's essential, but we understand that this must also be the culmination of the road that began last October with the approval of the Royal Decree on the same day as equality plans and payrolls. That must be the culmination of the road that began last October with the approval of that Royal Decree 902/2020, of equal pay between men and women. We believe that it is necessary in this proposal to record the most current legislative framework in which companies should act. Of course, it is true that he has probably left a lot of things on the way -- and the parliamentary debate will leave it for the legislative issue -- but it is also true -- he will agree with me -- that, of course, it is good that you bring this question here today and those demands to the Central Government that we are accustomed to by the People's Party, but you could also present this amendment there at Congress, which has a parliamentary group and is represented. Perfect. [[Murmurs.]] So if they presented it there, maybe it didn't make much sense for them to present it here, but, well, if they present the amendment there, it looks fantastic to us and we believe that, indeed, it must be the subject of parliamentary debate. Of course, when it comes to a law with a higher rank, a rule with a higher rank, we understand that it will be quite more complete and that it will deal with all those bees that perhaps now you have appreciated. And nothing else. I conclude by stressing that the PSdeG, of course, will always be supporting any initiative that is supposed to break up with inequalities between men and women. And nothing else on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Mercedes Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u176	Good afternoon now. I am surprised, first of all, that Mrs. Prado does not care about an important part of her speech, in which she talks about something as important as conciliation and co-responsibility to talk about other issues that have nothing to do with it. And I'm also thinking that the drift that the People's Party is adopting today would probably criminalize the demands on the street that the suffrageists have brought forward in their time to obtain the universal right to vote for women. [[Applause]] I would like us not to forget that today is Rosaly Day, which we must remember both within the Chamber and outside; a well-meaning date for the Greek society in honour of that cornerstone of our contemporary literary culture. And the reading of this proposal by the People's Party I recognize that in the last few days it has returned to me the memory of verses and proselytism of this transgressing voice and of the relevatory thought of the word of women already with class consciousness in the 19th century; a proposal by the People's Party that says to justify its urgency in the need to know what this Parliament's position is now when it comes to March 8th. "I won't tell you anything... but go away!" -- that Rosalía wrote --. It goes forward that for the BNG the concern for the discriminatory universe for women does not come at all fixed by a timely date in the calendar, because equality for us, reconciliation and co-responsibility are a cross-cutting political action. [[Applause]] It's not therefore a passing fashion shop or a party to celebrate, but a self-affirmation in which we continue to claim, because if there are some won rights, but we don't forget that there are still many pending ones; matter pending which, precisely, we now see seriously perish in language and also in the actions of far-right political parties, those who do not doubt, by the way, in acubiting with government pacts from the People's Party that even deny gender violence or the right to achieve equality. Selecting these travel companies in a shared government political project is for us to build a front wall towards a present and a future of true freedom for women, and also, of course, for the Greeks. He told them that reading this non-legislative proposal from the People's Party invited me to read Rosalía's work again these days. And I specifically wanted to bring here a certain poem that was well known, "Jan," of New Sheets. You know, that hyperbolic poem where nothing is what it looks like and where Rosalía's majestic hand invites us to read between lines that the true protagonist is the oppression of the woman because of the excess work inside and outside the house, of course, not recognized nor properly remunerated. We replaced in this poem Xan by Pepa, the two protagonists, and thus we see the scope of the drama in popular verse that distorts the strong civic commitment of Roselia with a reality totally unbalanced by the absence of autonomy -- independence, therefore economic -- which condemns women to a double marginalization, in the 19th century, yes, but also in the 21st century. In this proposal, you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, appeal to those cold data that testify to the crisis caused by the coward-19 affects with a much more dramatic impact on women, on us, which already precipitates a clear regression in gender equality. Orden, then, for us two questions. First: do you have anything to do with this data the situation preceding the pandemic? And the second: what was the role of the Galician Union in this pandemic, which is about to be one year old, in order to protect women from this negative impact as surprising as nothing unpredictable? [[Applause]] With regard to the first question, we must verify that the health crisis in which we are immersed has highlighted the central role of women in the care economy, but also its consequences. Strongly feminized economic activities suddenly became essential, essential. On the other hand, at this time of economic insecurity many of them have already lost their jobs or had to give up their jobs in order to prioritize the care of children, older people or dependent people since the beginning of the confinement with the closure of schools, later extended also with the closure of day-care centres. The lower rate of activity, higher temporality, higher unemployment rates were traces that already characterized the labour market in the area of the Greek women before the pandemic, which must be added, of course, something that has already been said here today: the wage divide, the greatest exponent of the inequality that we suffer in the workplace. In this regard, the data from the Tax Agency conclude that since 2009 this gap has only changed from 23 % to 20 %; that is, in absolute terms, to a reduction of 150 euro per month. If we followed this pace, it would still take 300 years to achieve wage equality with men. "I won't tell you anything... but go away!"that Rosalía would say. [[Applause]] Moreover, recent data from the EPA and corresponding to last quarter of last year, in 2020, concluded that in that year, in the pandemic year, 77% of the job destroyed is female, because in this crisis the real face has indeed emerged: directly or indirectly we continue to be women in charge of care. How precarious was that balance of reconciliation and what a child is still the co-responsibility in the home! As it collects, however, the current and very recent report of the socio-work situation of women published by the IGC -- the majority union force in representation and also in affiliation of Welsh workers that you exclude in that bill, also in this non-law, social dialogue proposal -- the 2009 crisis brought women out of the house; it, instead, brings them back to home; in some cases to teleworking -- it has been said here too -- that this misleading and totally disguised way of reconciling, so that we can continue to deal with young, dependent, older people, when they have been deprived of care outside the home, aggravated by that double task that we have always seen supporting women; and in other cases directly to inactivity, not to unemployment. That's what the current reports give us. The problems of conciliation are therefore over. If there's no work, there's nothing to reconcile. But let's ask ourselves, if this is not a voluntary decision, but forced, obliged, what do we call it?, expulsion of women from working life?, denial of the right to work? The position of women in society, still in 2021, as well as the working conditions in the labour market, are those that explain this evolution. And in 2020, what has made it clear all the stains that have perpetuated the missing or insufficient co-responsibility and conciliation policies. I recommend that they reread their Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021 because the proposals coming up on this proposal were already there. Putting these duties on the Government, now by the Parliamentary Group that supports it, really seems to recognize its own failure. Remember, we were pointing at the beginning of this intervention, two questions. The second, almost a year after the pandemic, is what plan or plan did you set up for the Union to promote this co-responsibility and reconciliation? Unfortunately, the answer is very brief: nothing that shielded women's right to continue with their professional development along with family life, because the summons of the Special Care Good could be a first stone, but, of course, absolutely insufficient and very limited in time. They come back with this LNP to preach this opportunism of inconcretion, to show an unfair and marginalizing reality of women, without taking a cross-cutting gender look in their active policies, and they come up with more advocacy campaigns in this proposal. We from the BNG tell them: encourage less and commit themselves more effectively. [[Applause]] I remind you that since 2009 you have been ruling this country continuously. They therefore abandon that speech which seems quite hypocritical, assume their responsibility and exercise those powers that are their own, as a government. Because since 2009 they arbitrarily abstained from the co-responsibility plan that BNG left in 2007 and were unable to draw up another or less than until 2018, which, by the way, expires this year, in 2021, and we still do not know any partial evaluation, and in this sense the two points of the amendment that we record are being referred to are being referred to. In 2014, the BNG pushed in Parliament, in this Parliament, a law of conciliation and co-responsibility. The PP voted against. You're talking about incorporating the gender approach. Welcome to this proposal to back up our program and our government actions. It's very good to lay down the other duties, as they do in this proposal as well, to everyone who is at his disposal, but we have to start setting an example with our own, and you with almost twelve years of government come very late even though you have those skills. "Well, I know there's nothing new under the sky," Rosalía also wrote. I'm done. So, please start by correcting the bad spots on how to manage the care-related services that depend on the Galician Union, bet on the expansion of user care squares, attend geographic dispersal, bring services to the rural environment, and end at once with the privatising policy that has hampered both the services, worsening the care quality of users, and also the socio-laborative situation of workers. I'm done. At the BNG we have recently come forward with the Proposal for Law Ángeles Albariño with a willingness to correct the discrimination that women bear in the field of science and research. You have a good opportunity here to demonstrate commitment to reconciliation and co-responsibility. Reconciliation must not only be possible, it must be an immediate reality. Here's your responsibility as government and, of course, our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't seem as important as you to claim a feminism of consensus and not confrontation. That's what I did here today, just claim that you can think differently, because that's what happens in democracy, that you can think of one thing and another one and not be hanged, because, as I told your companion earlier, don't come now with Meco's apology. Meco, Carnival, finished Wednesday, not Saturday. And if we claim the right to think differently and if we claim fundamental rights, from the beginning we can then claim rights for women. It is of no use to come here to claim the right of equality for women if you do not respect the right to think differently, Mrs. Complaints. [[Applause]] Look, you make a basic mistake, and it's to associate all the measures and policies of conciliation and co-responsibility with women and to say they don't agree with encouraging telework and promoting reconciliation, because they associate all these policies with women. That's the big mistake of what you're leaving, because those policies are for men and women, so they can telework men... No, as you said here in your intervention, that was to involve once again women stayed at home taking care of the children and so on. [[Murmurs.]] No, because conciliation measures are also aimed at men staying at home, taking care of their children, caring for older people and caring for dependent people. That mistake you have is what leads them to vote but not in a lot of things. And if the proposal seems vague to you, you had the opportunity to introduce yourself into your very specific amendment, and you didn't. So don't come here to say that it's a proposal that's useless, that we say vague things, if you then in your amendment don't propose more concrete things. I appreciate the support of the Socialist Party. I don't know if the Galician Nationalist Block will support you. Anyway, Mrs. Díaz, I think this is the way, adding proposals. I'm going to offer you a transaction both to the Socialist Party and to the Galician Nationalist Block, and, as you're going to vote now, because I'm going to comment on some things in your voice, although I'm also going to pass them a role. The amendment of the Socialist Party is added and in point 2 bis it said: "Guarantee parity in all those pandemic management centres where decisions are made". This is neither a competition nor equality, nor a job equality. So what we propose is to seek parity in all those pandemic management centers in which decisions are made. Then, in point 4a, when he says, "Revise the French Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021, as they said, I tell him that this assessment is being made. What we propose to you is that in the current assessment work -- because they are being carried out -- of the first European Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021 indicators of the impact of the Covid-19 in 2020 are being applied and that the result of that assessment is changing the measures that are necessary for the last stage of the monitoring period of the current plan. Because, of course, I said Mrs. Complaints that there are things here that are in the plan. Man! but the plan was for the year 2021 too, Mrs. Complaints. We're in February! Of course, it's just that if you, on a four-year plan, take one off, which is also budgeted for each year, because it's a bit surprising -- you said it -- no, she said it-- [[Mrs. Prado del Río marks with her hand to one side.]] The amendment to amend, Mrs Díaz, we will not accept it because, look, Mr Sánchez has been proposing the Pay Equality Act since the debate on the motion of censure. In June 2018 he has already promised a wage equality law, and in the investment debate, too. You ask me why our Members do not present a bill in Madrid. Look, it's just that the Socialist Party has introduced a bill, which is so far away from you, and then they come here to criticize that we present bills. But, look, you put forward a bill for this matter, which then collapsed at the end of the legislation, and now you're ruling again, and Mr. Sánchez in the investment debate has promised a wage equality law. Look, five things in equality have promised Mr. Sánchez: the law for equal pay between men and women, the agreement for rationalization of schedules -- with which we agree -- the creation of the State Office for Combating Discrimination -- we agree -- to complete the State Covenant against Gender Violence -- man!, it would be good to have done something about the pact, because they did not meet absolutely nothing -- and the comprehensive law on trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation -- which I also take advantage of to tell you that it would be good to start the work to pass the law of trafficking -- In this sense, I think we can come to an agreement. You were talking about telework, and I think telework can also be regulated by that amendment we ask for from the Conciliation Law or a new law, which you propose a new law. It looks good to us, it doesn't matter whether it's an ex-new law or it's an amendment to the 1999 law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u180	I, if you give us a minute to talk about this transaction, I thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u181	Yeah, whatever you need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u182	Thank you. [[Pause.]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u183	Let's start with the votes. First, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado. Amendments to the Socialist Group and the Galician Nationalist Block are not accepted. Voting of the motion for a non-law by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on the shipyards of Navantia, in the Ferrol River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u184	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos. The amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, Porinitiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in relation to the allocation of the European Union's Covid Fund for the Reactivation Next Generation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u185	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta. The Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment, which has not been accepted. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and three other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a shock plan aimed at reducing the wage gap between the women and men of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u186	We are now voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Olaya Rodil. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia is accepted. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the G.P.'s Non-Legal Proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the impact of the pandemic on the diagnosis and treatment of cancer and the measures to be taken by the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: 32 votes in favour, 41 votes in favour. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u187	We voted for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Ms Patricia Otero. Parliamentary Group amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Parliamentary Group were not accepted. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the evaluation by the Galician Council in relation to the benefits of tariffs and the transfer of AP-9. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 41; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u188	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado. There's a transaction that made me come in. All groups know her. So we vote for these transactions. We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Party of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and 14 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the situation of women in the labour and family sphere. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u189	The votes of the non-law proposals have been put to an end here. Debates and votes on the motions for resolutions of the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u190	We continue, as we said yesterday, with point 3, which is the debate and vote on the motions for resolutions made at the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan. We recall that there are proposals for a resolution from the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists from 1 to 3; 24 from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; and 6 from the People's Parliamentary Group. As has been agreed at the Council of Spokesmen and the Bureau, it will be a time of ten minutes per parliamentary group. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia begins for a period of ten minutes. Mr. Martín Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u191	Thank you very much, President. Yesterday, the Middle Rural Counsellor put a single transaction proposal on the table asking for approval of the plan and which included a temporary suspension of new eucalyptus plantations where they were not planted until the time of suspension. Our group is firmly convinced of the need for a serious and rigorous forest plan, beyond the occurrences of Mr. GonzálezVázquez and the "chabaneo" to propose yesterday everything contrary to what he proposed for press untitler. We have already answered yesterday to the representatives of the People's Party -- and we have made it public here too today -- with a counter-proposal for a joint transaction that contemplated the withdrawal of the Forest Plan to return to a public exhibition process forgotten by the Government of the Union and that it had made the People's Party return to the 2018 pact with our group and to build that necessary planning, but nothing more and nothing less than two-thirds of our territory. Our rural area is not for occurrences, gentlemen of the People's Party, as it keeps its mayor in Friol with proposals taken from the church that make out our argument that this presented is not a real plan, because they are able to pass, increase, the surface of eucalyptus by a 3% in this legislation asking for the suspension of planting of this species in five minutes, without any kind of technical explanation or fit into the development of the plan, as if the content of an essential plan for Galicia was a fair where it was changed deposition by an occurrence that tells us now what they were not able to do for thirty years. And all this without instruments to carry it out. What is more serious is that they say they will suspend the new plantations in those places where eucalyptus is not planted until this suspension; i.e. that they reward what the law failed by planting eucalyptus where it could not be and punish those who did not plant it, fulfilling the law. One more episode at the heart of the Rural Window Council. Besides, they do all this towards the gallery to give a headline to the media, without listening to what we've already told them at the CEO's appearance and we'll do it again yesterday. But they don't seem to care. The problem cannot be simplified solely and exclusively on the subject of eucalyptus, the problem is in the lack of diagnosis, in the lack of planning, participation, transparency and technical rigour in the elaboration of a plan and its budget. But it seems they don't want to hear it, and they don't have a single answer to the many questions we've raised, because they know that the plan is technically indefensible, and you want a plan that they call it flexible because the reality is that it's adapted to the interests of a few, that it builds a Galicia that plans forest production for one part of the territory and that it abandons its fate to the other part. We can continue with this pantomime that tries to make us believe that the Government of the Union wants to approve a forest plan agreed and agreed with all the political groups in this country and with citizenship, but the reality is that this plan is a document of a poor quality, which does not analyse the situation of our mountain, which gives no solution to the problems or planning our future. Remove this document to return to the path of participation and consensus that broke in 2018. And I also wanted to ask you what happened to that process, gentlemen of the People's Party. What were the approaches that society has made? Which ones did they take care of? Where's the report on the nearness of the public exposure process, because we don't know? They use a process that broke unilaterally to justify an unimplemented participation. You know that this is a different plan than what they did in 2018, modified with the sole criterion of a part of the sector. This is as if an urban management plan in a municipality was developed with the consensus of companies engaged in real estate promotion, regardless of neighborhood associations, ecological associations, educational associations, sports institutions, etc., etc., etc. We understand that in this plan, the forestry companies have a lot to do, and, as we told them themselves, they have to count on their unnecessarily opinions, but from the administration we should plan for the entire citizenship and not just for the interests of a few. What is the opinion of the official engineering schools? Did you hear them, Counselor? Because they don't endorse this document. What is the opinion of eco-organizations? Did they hear us? Because they don't endorse him either. What is the opinion of farmers and farmers? Because they probably didn't listen to them, and they certainly didn't tell them what the real plans and objectives of this plan were and the imperative interest in turning to the European funds, which should lead to the continuation of the agricultural activity in our territory. Have you spoken to the councils, Counselor? Because, from what I see, these days in the media, they shouldn't have spoken either. I told you yesterday about the need to have a serious and rigorous document and give you a series of data that shows the poverty of this plan, but if I see its motions for resolutions by the People's Party, we can only ratify our views, because they are an amendment to the whole plan itself. They now urge the Galician Union to incorporate into the plan the strategic planning documents for the main forest productions of the Galician mountain, so what did they not do for the drafting of this plan, Counsellor? You don't have to answer me, they didn't. Now they're talking about introducing these instruments and tracking them. So, look, they're talking about being more ambitious about the objectives and measures on forest statistical information in the Forest Plan. They might have warned, by my argumental reiteration, that according to this plan they're going to have 105 million for the next five years and they don't know what to spend them on. They say that before the end of 2022, Galicia's continuous forest inventory is completed, declared as a fundamental measure within the Galician Forest Plan. They may now realize that this plan does not have a single plan or analysis of the territory, and what is most clarifying and the real cause of bringing this document now is the motion for a resolution asking to reserve the amounts from the annual budgets of the Galician Union in order to ensure the necessary budgetary support for the implementation of the plans, programmes and measures referred to in this document. That is the real objective of this plan, the allocation of funds, and, above all, of the European funds. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in July 2018 the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan was approved, and the public information process opened for a period of three months. In that period, the documentation could be examined in the Directorate-General for Forest Management and by telematics. There were hanging the diagnosis, the strategic environmental study, the annex of actions and the first review of the Forest Plan. Today there are no synthesis or understandable format documents that can be consulted by the general public. That's the transparency you have. In this 2021, they presented documents that differ substantially from the contents and the documentation provided in public information in 2018, and, with the hatred of a sector technician, like in a magic game, they drew out a text that they wanted to identify with the previous process, but in reality it's a new document to a large part of their proposals. You have introduced a regulatory amendment through the back door via Budget Accompanying Law, allowing the processing of the effects of strategic environmental assessment in three months without carrying out a new public information process, calculating as participation and public information the procedures made prior to your own definitive document which was presented in January 2021, which is a genuine legal barbarity. We ask them in the motions for resolutions, in addition to the withdrawal of this plan, to comply with the legality, to adapt the plan to the new legal framework in force in Galicia under the new Land Management Act, which repeals the Law of 1995, it will not be necessary for them to withdraw it through legality, Counsellor. They also initiate a new strategic environmental assessment procedure, in accordance with the Environmental Assessment Act, given the legal insecurity in the process of environmental assessment initiated in 2018, the time elapsed, the continuous changes made, the processing followed and the lack of rigour in the evaluator process initiated pursuant to Articles 21 et seq. of that law, and adapt the period of oversight, execution and programming, resulting from the repeated delays in the processing of the plan. In 2021 they present a plan with a real operational vigil of five years for the 2018-2021 operation, as much as trying to make up, modifying the reference to 2021-2025. The approval of the plan would practically coincide with the third year of its vigil. They adapt the budget path of the plan to the times of the Conseilerie do Medio Rural. There is no point in presenting in 2021 future budgets that begin in 2018 and that are not performed on a regular basis. And they also opt either for the inclusion in the Plan of the Galician Forest Industry Agency's role plan or directly for its deletion in this new parallel administration model in the form of agencies that manage about 10% of the global budget of the Galician Union, lack of coordination and any target management approach. I would like to reiterate, Mr. Counsellor and gentlemen of the People's Party, that they return to consensus, that they return to the point they left in 2018, that they apply again the public participation of all those who want to put their "grain" of sand on this plan and that they withdraw what they will approve today and that they do not count on the participation of much of the sector on our land in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u192	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. My first words I want them to be to show my solidarity and support for the neighborhood of Valdeorras Street, of my municipality, which today manifested itself in front of Iberdrola's headquarters before the closure of the Galician Control Operations Centre. And I have to say in this sense that soon Valdeorras has benefited us from the great friendship between Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Galán. [[Applause]] By entering the Forest Plan and the referent, first of all, of the motions for resolutions put forward by the People's Party, I want to say first of all that I am an explicit recognition that the arguments we raised yesterday from the Nationalist Galego Block in regard to this document are true. The first motion for a resolution before us talks about making planning documents for different productions, for chestnuts, for honey, for mushrooms -- i.e., asking for a concretion to this forest plan, which is what we called for. The second motion for a resolution refers to the need for coordination between the various departments of the Union in order to put in place different measures that are in line with this Forest Plan. I mean, again -- as BNG said -- speaks of the transversality that is missing from this forest plan. The third motion for a resolution speaks of the lack of information. Ask for an inventory to plan more rigorously, i.e. -- I repeat -- you consider that information, that inventory, than the plan lacks in order to be able to carry forward policies. The fourth has to do with the budget. As the spokesman for the Socialist Party also said, they say that the Galician Union is allocating the money it needs to implement this plan. I'd miss more! And in the fifth motion for a resolution, you call for a plan to follow up on this forest plan. I mean, you ask that there be a series of targets, that there be a control over those targets; therefore, you also recognize that there are no targets. They recognise, therefore, that it is a plan that does nothing at all and does everything, absolutely everything, to subsequent regulation. So they're a set of loose measures, some of them that hit directly or frontally with each other. And what better example is it that it gives them exactly what this document puts on than the offer made yesterday by the Middle Rural Councillor in this Parliament? Because, of course, here, in the paper, it takes everything, until they present as a proposal a moratorium -- which does not prohibit -- that it would already be in force today, when they've been jumping it through the Triumph for twelve years, systematically failing it. And I'm going to tell you a couple of data. [[Applause]] In 2016, the Galician Union recognized, through the Rural Middle Council, an area -- between pure surfaces and mixed surfaces -- of eucalyptus 310,000 hectares. This in 2016; and in 2018 we were already in 422,000. What does the forest plan fix? These are Council data, they're not BNG data -- when you're done here, if you want, I'll pass them, through the services of the House --. If the 92 plan provided for 245,000 acres by 2032 and in 2016 they were already talking about 310,000... you were ruling and you are now ruling continuously for twelve years. [[Laughter]] Why didn't they stop this expansion? [[Applause]] They had the arguments, they had the norm and they had the political and government capacity to do so and they didn't. But now we have to believe, for the BNG and the Socialist Party to vote in favour of this plan, that they will suddenly do what they haven't done for twelve years. Because, in the end, what seems to be about winning the battle of public opinion, regardless of what is done in the document. And with this in mind, in 2018 a popular legislative initiative came to this Parliament which was endorsed by over 40,000 signatures. I'm going to read article 6 of this popular legislative initiative, literally saying, "It's established an indefinite moratorium on new species specimens of Eucalyptus genre throughout the Greek territory. The Greek Administration will encourage studies to assess the impacts of this tree on the natural habitats and ecosystem services that these spaces provide to society. On the basis of this information, the characteristics and conditions for the use of this species shall be established." What did the People's Party vote for? On the contrary, of course. I'll go over there. In the bill we're dealing with, which is being dealt with right now in this Parliament, about the recovery of land, there is an article -- which is Article 64 -- which talks about permutations for the elimination of land-locked plots and which the Counsellor has also introduced to the groups to give us an idea of how this and other articles of the law were going. Of course, here, in Article 64.2 (a) they speak of the fact that, when they want to replace an enclave plot next to an agricultural farm to be expanded, they will provide you with at least 20 % of the original area. And I ask him, how does an increase of 20% conjugate when we want to move surfaces of eucalyptus enclaved with not making an increase of eucalyptal surface? Of course, it is absolutely incompatible. We, look, we are very glad that they changed their mind about the eucalyptus and that they are in addition to the position of the BNG, making this decision and this moratorium, and in addition, as it was collected today in the press, not as it was presented yesterday. I liked her and I also took the data -- I came in between and I understand that they were literary demonstrations of the Council's press release -- which spoke of a moratorium "as long as there is no greater consensus on how to regulate the species." We are delighted that you approve this and we will also be attentive to its compliance, that the counselor defines here as transcendental. In any case -- and returning to the document itself -- we believe that a question such as that of the eucalipto moratorium would not solve at all all all the problems of this document, although I repeat that we do not understand it to be real. The thickness of the document and the measures to be applied to us should orbit on several axes that are not spoken of here: first, the Nature Network and the protected spaces. We understand that we need to provide for actions in the Forest Plan in new areas in order to be able to expand these protected spaces and implement measures to eliminate up to 5,000 hectares of eucalyptus planted irregularly today in these spaces. This, despite the fact that the Director General says in commission, that it is not up to them to order anything there; but, however, they do refer in the Forest Plan to questions of agricultural land, model villages... which is quite surprising when they abandon protected spaces. A second question, multifunctionality. There's no need to worry -- which is important -- about the productive uses of the mountain. They're important, but the mountain is a lot more -- we told you yesterday -- beyond the four model mountains, which is where the multifunctionality that this document provides for us remains. And when I ruled the Bipartite -- which you both lie about -- a proposal document was prepared on a multifunctional mount. They use that document if they don't want to make their own, because there were very interesting proposals about how to use the mountain in a different and rich way for our rural one. A third axis refers to biodiversity versus monoculture. I don't think they should be shielded -- and this document does a lot of it -- in the certification to assume sustainability. I'm telling you today all the plantations in Ence are certified. Is this valid for you? We really don't understand that. A fourth question concerning the mountains in common: they have an obsession, really, against this property model, which they don't like. They don't understand it and they want to remove it from a pen, and we'll also see, when they bring -- I repeat -- the proposal that they have to change the law in common, where the shots go. A fifth question, resilience. I told you yesterday, beyond the headline, we have to return the complexity to our country's wooded mountains. A sixth kick is the question of the problem of fires in Galicia. You continue to leave without fighting the structural causes that cause the fires in our country. And, by not questioning, they don't question the Pladiga, which makes a cut and picks up year after year to which they pay as little attention as this forest plan. We understand, above all, that the Forest Plan has to be designed to be fulfilled, beyond the achievement of European funds, and we also understand, indeed, that it is very complicated for the expansion of the eucalyptus; we understand that. [[Applause]] We'll be watching here because you're talking about tractor projects and a series of projects that the advisor is committed to bonding with leafy species and that it's hard for us to believe. We will also be vigilant in this matter. We understand the pressures in the sector, we understand them, too. We understand the pressures of Finsa, Navigator, of Ence... that besides Ence -- and I recommend to everyone here, in this plenary, that he read the Strategic Plan of Ence, which seems so much like a territorial planning tool in our country -- he talks about the Greek mountain almost as if it was his own because he had planted eucalyptus... it's really amazing! [[Applause]] And forest service companies understand that they're also a pressure element. [[Applause]] What's not worth, anyway, is to look into private property to talk about individual freedom, because then, for example, fire prevention and extinction systems we pay them all. That is, once again, we privatize the profits for the producers, but we socialize the losses they generate based, for example, on forest fires. We must respect the owners, yes, but we must also understand that their interests can never be above social interests. There's a lot more to be desired. And you don't assume that there's a problem with our mountain today, and this is the base. We must stop assuming that we have 50% of the timber cuts across the state in Galicia and worry that, having that 50% of cuts, we only invoice little more than 10% of the total turnover of the sector in the state, and it is by low quality wood that we have -- wood and mountains, on the other hand -- as the Naturgy magazine report says, which places the Greek forests as the worst environmental quality in the state. The background -- we said yesterday too -- is in the European funds. We, when we speak, Mrs. Candia, of oversized budget, don't look little like the budget; what we say is that it's not real. We don't believe it; we don't believe these numbers. We believe that the breakdown of these funds and investments is not at all rigorous, because you paint large numbers here to frame towards fund-raising. Of course, we will never criticize the fact that funds are being set aside to order the mount if that sort of order is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u194	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u195	I'm done. I just want to tell you that we -- to talk about the transaction yesterday -- were telling you that we were presenting an alternative transaction, which was to withdraw this plan until you had an inventory. And it doesn't even need to present the transaction because it's the first motion for a resolution presented by BNG. Ask yourself why a plan -- 1992 -- was adopted in this House by consensus on a plan that you will adopt on your own...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u197	I repeat, wonder why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u198	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u199	Thank you. Well, it's a good day or it's almost late. Thank you very much, President, and thank you very much, comrades. Your Honor, yesterday, after an intense day, you came to the plenary session, by this strengthened procedure, the Forest Plan document. I finished my intervention reminding them that it was the moment of talented leaders for conciliation and with tolerance to consensus. That's how I finished it, and so I want to start it today. The Counsellor -- whom I also thank for accompanying us here today -- explained in detail the process of elaboration and thanked the involvement of the Forest Council; a process of participation that is no longer to be remembered that he incorporated 87.8% of the guidelines of that 26-entity team, that work table, and also a document incorporating 75% of the fire commission's dictate; a document that we also defined as flexible and alive. And there's something I would like to point out, especially what Mrs. Albert said about our motion for a resolution confirming her fears. There is, in this respect, something that I want to make meridionally clear, and it is that the document itself collects instruments so that I can make an assessment, follow-up, and I refer myself to the plan on page 39, which actually says so; it is neither an occurrence nor an improvisation. [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document.]] It is true that this group, seeking, as I told you, that consensus, because no one has argued that a basic instrument of forest planning is needed, seeking efficiency and seeking sustainable management of forest spaces and resources, has reinforced six ideas in six motions for resolution. They were all collected in the plan, but as we saw, perhaps with an excessive good faith or innocence on our part, that they didn't read them, because we wanted to strengthen it -- particularly Mrs. Albert -- by placing that strategic position on the production of chestnut -- which you cited for the importance, in resolution 2, of incorporating information into forest statistics, in proposal 3, insisting on the very concrete commitment of the Forest Inventory. That continued follow-up I've already explained was collected on page39 and, no doubt, it's the best participation document for the forces in the opposition, too, because there's undoubtedly a very clear and painful commitment. The opposition forces also presented their corresponding proposals, specifically the Nationalist Block of Wales, 24, and the Socialist Party, which signed here, quite less. It may seem that the Galego Nationalist Block makes constructive proposals and that it actually wants to improve the plan, but of these 24 -- let's sum up -- practically 19 are confined to criticizing, undervaluing and demonizing the management of the Government of the Union of Galicia; that is, in a very clear way, declaring the war to the eucalyptus plantation. And there I also want to point out because it's not the same, of course, the transaction proposal that this group presented to the advisor who asked for the Nationalist Block Galego. And I'll explain it as best I can. The Galician Nationalist Block literally asks to start 10,000 hectares/year; by 20, it would be 200,000. That data is very important. Imagine in the Navy, that we can practically say that we are, at least, at a rate of about 80%. Well, if I tell a Mr. de Barreiros, a Mr. de Jupiter, or, let me tell you, too, a Mr. de Mondoñedo, how it may affect you... but it's not just that, I invite you to listen to the intervention in the commission, because I think about minute 48 makes the proposal to extend the area of protection in the country of the thousand rivers -- as I would say Cunqueriro -- from 15 to 25 meters. They're data, as Mrs. Otero said -- and it's not the same as they rule over others, fortunately -- of course, to be very careful. Even so, I would also like to take this opportunity to consult you, because it seemed that the proposal made by the 5 % forest reduction plan was unrealistic, yet you propose an infinitely superior reduction proposal and the documents that gave you the defensive plan, justified them and believed they were absolutely sure they could do so. That's certainly called great coherence. In the case of the PSOE, apart from reminding us that we have to adapt it to the law -- it seems to me a very busy proposal -- they just make contributions like: you include the Galaga Forest Industry Agency or the Sub-Commission. That's one of the proposals, which you mentioned here, too. I mean, you say one thing and you say the opposite in the same motion for a resolution and you don't get colored. In any case, I insist, because I think it was very important to send a message of consensus to all -- to the owners, to the sector -- and on that line this group and the advisor made a unique compromise on which we asked to assume that commitment to limit plantations until we had data from the Forest Inventory in those areas where it wasn't yet planted. In the face of this proposal that was made with good faith and with the greatest possible humility, we found the absolute immobilism of: withdraw it from you, that this, as the fellow Seco said, is a "chabaneo", a "delirium", a "pantomime"... and yesterday ended with the "piltrafa". It's the level of such serious and rigorous work of so many people. Finally, for you, gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party, this is a very urgent document, but they tell us: wait, let's take everything back. It's late, but they still ask it to be approved later. They say it's necessary for the RDP, and they recognize it, but they don't care either, as if we don't go to European funds, because they're still so wrong about how much worse Galicia can go to them, because they blame the People's Party. But so, honestly, we're not going anywhere. They say it's not concrete, but the proposals you make use of numbers that don't get into discussion, and they say it's vague, but they say it's a budget problem because it's oversized. What he said, one thing and the opposite, and they don't get colored, and then they appeal to consensus. Then I'll tell you something with great responsibility. As you know, I'm the first one to intervene and I said that here everybody brings their backpack, and I -- first person, as you know -- assumed responsibility for being in the opposition at a very complicated time in the Provincial Deputy of Lugo. I say it's very complicated because, as you know, they broke the government and there weren't enough numbers, and we were all needed. The opposition has an absolutely responsible role, and the will of consensus, when invited, is a real will of consensus! And with the big agreements, I think, of course, that the territories are moving forward. This group will explain this plan well with you or without you. And we're going to address not only the Ence -- because our associates to the multinationals, but really who repeats it constantly are you. I want to send two or three messages to the people who are listening. First of all, to those generations of livestock, farmers, who have in their forest productions a guarantee and an economic supplement to those pensions, because, let's not be deceived, there are a lot of agrarian people who, after consuming 35 years, today have a pension of just over 600 euros. And the production of a blacksmith or an acre of his mountain -- which cost him a lot of effort to do with it or with it -- counts. But that message is for them today; it counts for them and counts for the group I represent. Because to those Greeks and to the Greeks I transfer the message that this plan also protects them. But it's also a positive plan for the forest industry, for those 80,000 families that live directly or indirectly in the forest sector. Gentlemen, we don't criminalize them; we don't ridicule an extremely important sector in our economy. I belong to a group that defends the three uses in agricultural territory: forest, livestock and agriculture. They all have quarters, and we bet they live together and get them to work together. That's how we're going to do it in this living document, which is not a fixed picture, is a working document with which we are constantly and very committed to the Greeks and to the Greeks, we are going to move forward, with you next door -- which, of course, would be very positive to all of us -- or to you in front. Because it's also true, as you know, that the Rural Councillory is the fourth with the highest budget in this government; it's a very important adviser also in our rural environment, and we have to say that we don't feel alone. And we don't feel qualitatively alone, but undoubtedly -- and the numbers are there -- we don't feel lonely either, not quantitatively. So, counselor, we're going to continue working on that live rural, that rural where we believe and that today, or from now on, starts with a better instrument, with an instrument that will allow an orderly planning of our mountain, and what everyone, even today, at the end of my intervention, is willing to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] After this debate, we proceeded to the vote on the motions for a resolution on the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan. Voting of motions for resolutions formulated at the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u201	We begin by voting on motion for a resolution No. 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which seeks to reject the plan. We vote. Voting of motion for a resolution No. 1 by G.P. of the Galician Socialists, formulated at the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u202	No proposals traded. We are now voting together on the motions for resolutions which are not dealt with by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which are from 1 to 3. We vote. Joint vote on the non-transactional motions for resolutions Nos. 1 to 3 of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, formulated at the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u203	We also jointly vote on the non-transactional motions for resolutions of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which are from 1 to 24. We vote. Joint vote on the non-transactional motions for resolutions Nos. 1 to 24 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, formulated for the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u204	Finally, we voted together on the motions for resolutions from 1 to 6 not negotiated by the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Joint vote on the non-transactional motions for resolutions Nos. 1 to 6 of the People's G.P. of Galicia, formulated at the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u205	This concludes the vote on these proposals. We suspended the session until five at least a.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u206	Good afternoon. We restart the session with the seventh point of the agenda, interpelerations. In this case, two interpellations must be accumulated. Accumulation of two interpelerations for their joint formulation La Noa Susana Díaz Varela and three other MPs, G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the data and reports with which the Government of Greece tells about the effects of the 19-pandemic on the Greek women Ana Pontón Mondelo's inquiry and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the impact on women of the economic crisis generated by the coward 19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u207	It begins with the interpellation by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u208	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. Welcome and thank you for being here, Madam Employment and Equality Advisor. The Organisation of Nations Unions referred at the end of 2020, last year, which was all clear: an increase in cases of violence against men, unequal distribution of care tasks, difficulties also in caring for sexual and reproductive health, and a high number of women professionals in health. In this way, he confirmed that the pandemic of the coward had a much greater impact on women -- we said it today in several interventions here -- that they experienced a regression in their lives; they took on a greater load of work in the home and care of dependent and minor people; they changed their working conditions to adapt to the new reality, and they even found a greater vulnerability in cases of male violence. In view of this situation, the Socialists and the Socialists believe that we firmly believe that it is the public authorities who have to assume responsibility for mitigating this new vital situation of women and actually implement cross-cutting equality policies to prevent these inequalities from occurring or, at least, to reverse them as soon as possible. In order to develop truly effective policies in this context of urgency, it would certainly be desirable to have data that enable them to design action plans directed directly to the women's affected groups so that they can differentiate between specific problems and needs. In this triple dimension of the pandemic: health, social and economic, it is essential to know the extent of its gender impact in order to incorporate it into the response to a crisis that -- as we say -- has affected women to a great extent. I already announced it, and I warned you about the report -- which we also referred to this afternoon, recently -- at the Women's Institute. We're talking about citation with an overload of health work and essential services. We're not only mostly among health personnel, we're also in the food trade sectors, the care, education and children, or the cleaning services. And what does he do? They put us in the first line of contagion. In addition, we must add to this enormous pressure derived from bending shifts and doing many more extra hours than usual. In addition, women continue to carry out most of their domestic work and care for paid and unpaid dependents, thus also assuming greater mental and emotional burden. In addition, women suffer greater precariousness and poverty at work -- this morning a companion put it here as a manifesto -- which puts us in a worse place also to cope with the outcome of this crisis. In addition, some of the most affected sectors, such as tourism, commerce or hospitality, we know that they are clearly feminized. Besides -- let's repeat again -- this is not the day here to deal with this issue, but there has been an increase in the risk of male violence and other types of violence against women, derived from that confinement. In fact, in Galicia, despite the decline in complaints -- an absolutely logical consequence in a situation arising from these house isolation measures -- there was a remarkable increase in telephone consultations. Every phone call is an alert. In case it was little, to this professional role, assumed unintentionally by women, it is also necessary to unite the context, the inevitable and permanent social context -- not to say historical -- which, in the end, is what determines everything. Because the usual difficulties of conciliation, and the lack of co-responsibility, must also be added to the closure of educational centres, telework and confinement at home, which would cause an overload that would only be solved by the setting up of co-responsibility mechanisms from all areas. In this sense, we also have to put the emphasis here on the particular situation of monomantal families. And I say "monomantals" because they are these families with only one member responsible for children, who, of course, are always, in their vast majority, headed by women. Women who have seen themselves very unprotected, and still now they are in a state of deprotection. This whole situation is also generating an increase in the digital gender gap, especially in those most vulnerable homes with difficulty in accessing the Internet and electronic devices, which they do is they prevent job maintenance, when the only option is, precisely, teleworking. And besides, this situation usually happens in people with precarious jobs or in the so-called informal economy, which we know are: again, women. And this is here -- we repeat that word again, in the context, in the global reflection that should lead us to these measures, to pragmatism, to action -- where we, Counsellor, miss the intervention of the Government of Greece. Because they made their own document coming to us in the reconstruction committee, they made their report The gender perspective, essential to the response to the Covid-19, of the Women's Institute. But they have not yet been able to make their own assessment, their own study, considering that our country has very different particularities with regard to other territories. We don't know if there's any analysis documents; if there is, we'd like to have him or meet him. Because -- as I say -- the approach to the reactive commission that is entitled -- and I don't want to go wrong -- : Report on the impact of the genre of cowardice and measures to be taken to alleviate and correct inequalities between men and women, you know it's just a summary of the document drawn up in December in Madrid, literally. If anyone doubts what I'm saying, he's got nothing to do with it. We applaud the proposed global measures, which we also share in that document that was made in Madrid in December and which you now make yours as well. But we miss the measures and initiatives directed at our women, to the women of Greece. Because no, the pandemic has not affected us all the same, neither the different women's collectives nor, of course, the women in the different territories that the State has. Our geographic dispersion, the high rate of aging population -- that we have -- our productive tissue -- there are many variables that differentiate us, that differentiate our territory from other people, and that have to be taken into account in this planning of measures or actions. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of course, we think that, once a year has passed from the health crisis - we are now going to meet the next week, or soon, a year from the health crisis - your advisor should have prepared a detailed study of our reality and the impact this crisis has had throughout this year on us, on women, on the labour market, on care, on responsibility, on health, on conciliation, on employment or on the representativeness that we were talking about before and that, in some way, we have accepted this amendment that we proposed in the previous non-legislative proposal. They have sufficient resources, which we think is just a matter of will; it's just a matter of will. They have the CIS, the information centers to the woman, which are not only directed at the problem of gender-based violence. They have the universities, fantastic research groups that work in this field. They also have local entities, which they can tell them what reality they're living for, and it's the administration closest to citizenship and these women. These local administrations can tell you and collect data or provide you with data about this reality of women. With all that data -- and I'm saying this to you soon, because there could be a lot more sources of information -- all of this would give us an overview of how to direct our public policies, and, above all, on such an essential issue as this one, such as inequality, to ensure its success. Finally, the question is quite simple: firstly, to evaluate the Galician environment in terms of the impact of covid on women, on women in Greece -- we understand ourselves -- ; secondly, to plan actions to respond or mitigate the negative trends or data shown in that previous phase; thirdly, to approach the resources needed to develop each of those actions, and fourthly -- and we know that this is not the time yet, but it doesn't correspond -- would be the assessment of the effectiveness of that plan. This is a college first, probably. But the question is that all of this that we just formulated, and especially this last one of pure methodology, is not an occurrence of this socialist who is speaking here, is that it was one of the argumental lines of Professor Maria Bastida's narrative, which, by the way, was the person you designated to appear in that Equal Reactivation Commission. And she herself had an impact on the idea that, at an extraordinary moment like the current one, because of the unexpected and what it means to social transformation, politics will only work -- actually, I think half of her appearance was a little like this -- if they start from rigorous analysis prior to diagnosis; that necessary diagnosis of what we think this government is sick, in addition to a lot of things -- I'm sorry to tell you -- but this is one of them. So we do our own, too, that assurance from Professor Bastida. And that's why we're worried that the Greek Government is putting in place -- because we're not saying it's not acting -- policies directed at women without really knowing what our problems are, because, of course, that's the feeling we have. And what we want is to put in place some urgent action plan, but directed, focused and with a very specific target. Because it's no use taking conciliation measures if this is perhaps not the main problem in rural areas. Rural people have far more important problems. We know, because that's what they said to us, that the council is conducting a study on the impact of the covid on the German female employment, and we celebrate it, but we really ask them to hurry; because, in that matter, everything we later lost -- in this issue of equality -- is very difficult to recover. In fact, any fall back on equality means an exponential leap back, we really think it's, in all light, insurmountable. So the only thing we're talking about and what we're asking is if there's really any study done and if you've been thinking about an action plan. We think they're late, but we hope they have something to think about next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u210	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, too, Counselor. I will try to be as complementary as possible to Mrs. Díaz, in order not to repeat ourselves. And I'm left with a sentence in which I think we'll all agree, the Government too, in it: the economic crisis caused by the pandemic does not strike the whole population at the same time. It's not the same for the working class as for the great fortunes. While estimates place, approximately, the increase in poverty in our country in 2020 around 60,000 Welshers plus, the rich -- but really, not the million heritage of what we talk about so many times -- these fired the profit of their investments in the midst of this crisis. Today we were having lunch in the morning -- I'm sure everyone and everyone saw it -- with that record profit achieved by Iberdrola, of 3,610.7 million euros more in the year of the economic crisis, and I was bringing to the thread of this debate the report that recently published also to CNMV, which placed the profitability of the sysavs -- they sounded these societies to all of them -- because they increased their profitability by 2020 over five percent. By way of example, I chose a heritage led, besides, by a woman, by a Greek woman; the main or one of the main heritages that exist in our country, a sysav that is called Soandres, which is its value calculated at 322.9 million euros. It's Sandra Ortega's great sysav -- these are public data, we're not revealing anything -- which has increased its profits, last year in 2020, this pandemic year, in more than 15 million euros. This is the equivalent -- to put us in a position, I chose a program from your board -- to program 313 from the Employment and Equality Council, "Protection and support for women who suffer from macho violence." The crisis, therefore, understands -- and much -- of social classes, but also, and especially, it understands a lot about sex, and doesn't affect women as well as men. Today, since the BNG, what we want to do is to make a reflection that introduces this gender perspective to understand better why the pandemic of coward 19 and, above all, its economic and social consequences, has a different and much harder impact on women. And the first consideration -- I share the reflection that Mrs. Díaz was doing -- is that there's very little analysis with a gender perspective of what's happening. Precisely that report she referred to, which was what she referred to as the Board of Reactivation, is a good example of that, of the lack of gender analysis about what has happened in this country in the last year. There's not a single data, there's only two percentages extracted from a study developed by the University of Vigo, but which refers to research activity in our country. It seems interesting to us, but the Greek women are employed in many and more sectors. Then there are vague references to international documents, but nothing concrete about Galicia. We hope that today, from this interpellation, the Government will make a slower, clearer analysis of the situation that we have led to live in Galicia with that necessary gender perspective in the last year. And this is no ballad, I also agree with Mrs. Díaz. We'll see -- and this is one of the elements or the central idea about which the intervention of the BNG is going to rotate -- that this is not a crisis like none of us will ever live to date. It has nothing to do with comparing it with the most recent crisis, the 2008-2009 financial cruc, but we are facing a crisis that is assuming an involution, a huge retreat far beyond the economics for women. This is not a crisis in which we only see the material living conditions of workers worsened, which are already starting from greater precariousness, greater temporality and partiality than men, but we see how it is producing an involution, a huge retreat, because it is strengthening the roles of patriarchal, traditional and macho genres, basically the role of mother and caretaker. And there's the second reflection we want to make today from BNG. According to the EPA data we have from the fourth quarter of 2020, almost eight out of every ten jobs destroyed in our country were occupied by women. Almost eight out of ten -- I insist -- jobs destroyed in 2020 in our country were occupied by women. Where did they go? Were they unemployed? No, no, no, no. That fall in women's occupation is almost identical, if we look at the EPA data, at the increase in the rate of inactivity. To a large extent, they are dedicated to the work of the home. About ten thousand and two hundred women more than in 2019, devoted to these household chores, according to EPA. To make us also a graphic idea, I think it's good,-- often in the press we use how many football fields -- I also brought another equivalent -- ten thousand two hundred women is practically the population census that has the Town Hall of Foz in the Navy district. And why do we say from the BNG that it's an involution, a huge retreat? I've never been in the last quarter of a century. Since the end of the 1990s, about, if we took the historical series, mainly from the massive incorporation of women into wage labor, the trend has always been -- to a greater or lesser extent, at a higher or lesser rate -- to increase that rate of women's activity and to bring it closer to men. Even in the financial crisis of 2009, the crack in 2008 and 2009, that trend was to converge the rate of activity between women and men. It was precisely at that moment of the economic crisis of the past decade, of which we have not yet been raised in this, where there is a greater approximation. It wasn't because women achieved large shares of equity, but because of a fall in the high rate of activity charged in the case of men. To say in a way that you can easily understand: we were more equal in inequality. This analysis we have done since BNG reveals two ideas or two elements that are important to consider: The first is that co-responsibility -- and we were talking about this moment in this plenary -- is absolutely unreal. I mean, it's true, it's been collected in the law, and in the Welsh legislation a long time ago, but it's an invention, it doesn't exist. To show, a button. We always regret that the data are late, but the last structural survey of the homes of the IGE, the Galego Institute of Statistics, which is 2017 -- it would be good to have an update -- which allows us to see the situation, the picture of conciliation and the co-responsibility in our country -- by the way -- in a normal situation or, at least, in an unusual situation like the one we've been living in this country for almost a year. What did you tell us about this structural survey of the 2017 IGE homes? That 91.6% of the people who have received a surplus of care for children and children are women, or 91.6%! And 87% of the inactive persons cared for by minors or dependents are also women, 87%. It is the whole; the rest is margin of error practically or cases that are isolated and for nothing representative. All of this in a context of inequality that has been consolidated, in addition to in recent years. With regard to the pay gap -- it's been talked about now, it's also talked about in the morning -- in fact, the latest data we managed from the 2018-2019 Tax Agency tells us that it has been reduced to 45 euros. It's nothing! Three hundred years to get that pay balance that we normalize and naturalize, but it's a violation of human rights, and we're talking about it here. We know how much it costs economically, what a percentage represents, even we can be able to detect where that pay gap resides, which is nothing but a violation of human rights. We normalize it absolutely and assume it almost naturally. For us -- my companion Rosana Pérez said this morning -- it's so interesting to see that data of how much the salary divide represents, as is the tendency that is being consolidated in our country. What happens to generations, as it may be to me, that we join the labour market when they were already in force and approved the equality laws? I joined the labour market in 2012, and the Equality Act is 2004, the laws of masculine violence or wage and labour equality in 2007. What about those women between the ages of 26 and 35? It is true that this gap is reduced with respect to our mothers and grandmothers, but it remains at 14 percent. I mean, women who have a higher education, not only about our mothers and grandmothers, but about more training even than our men, we charge fourteen percent less than them. Why? We remain occupied in sectors with greater precariousness, such as services, commerce, hospitality, essentially the most hit by this crisis of the coward, and we also endure worse working conditions, more temporality, more partiality, ponds in the quote... that's very dangerous because in the future we are also placed in a gap in pensions, which we must remember that in Galicia are already the second lowest in the state. In summary and to finish, the current crisis has nothing to do with what we will live. We say it many times in times of peace, but not even for women, if we compare ourselves to the times of war. If we make a historical retrospective, with a gender perspective, of what happened, for example, in the great war conflicts that went through our country -- the Great War, the Second World War or the Spanish Civil War, by setting three examples --, there is always a massive incorporation of women into wage work, mainly in industry, because there is also a gender issue, there is also a trade between women and men. The men at the trenches and the women at the factories. It has absolutely nothing to do with what we're living. We ask him -- and with this ending -- is: what valuation, what reflection does Galician Union make? and what measures will be taken to avoid, first, that this inflow materializes and, secondly, that we should not only be hit more by this crisis, but that we should go out with a less democratic society, less just and therefore more unequal? For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Ms. Maria Jesús Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u212	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I would like to thank, firstly, the constructive spirit of the speeches of the two honourable Members and also thank the two parliamentary groups for this initiative, because it also allows the Government to listen, of course, to the suggestions on its part. It's an opportunity -- I think -- for work and reflection for the House and also for the Government to be able to account for the result, both of the studies you're asking about and the programs we're working on in this matter. There are a lot of the issues that you raise as a manifesto in which I think we agree. We are based on the fact that we need to do studies, balance sheets, and to have reports where the data are fully analysed so that we can get a fieldwork that allows us to run programmes and conduct public policies in this area. If there are questions I'd like to point out, and for that I'm also here. It is not just one of the reports submitted by the Employment and Equality Council in this case. In particular, the non-permanent Commission for Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation from Galicia to the Council provided six reports. Of these six reports, there are three that are specific in terms of equality, gender perspective, and there is another report -- which I'm looking at now -- in terms of work, which is also specifically referring, in terms of one of its blocks, to the perspective of gender. So, in addition to Mrs Díaz's report, which is the report on the gender impact of the covid of measures to be taken to alleviate and correct inequalities between women and men, we provide the report on the action and evaluation of the General Secretariat of Equality during the covid. We also provide a report on the work of information centres to women in the General Secretariat of Equality, which I believe provides the perspective in Galicia on the work of these centres. And we provide the report on the impact analysis of covid on the labour market in Galicia, where it reflects -- I think -- the perspective of gender within the labour market. It is true that the conclusions of all the international bodies of the European Union itself, of different national and even autonomous bodies -- the University of Vigo -- are reflected -- and I think, as it cannot be otherwise -- in these reports. I think the UN has a lot to say, and I will reflect on it, that the International Labour Organization has a lot to say, that the European Union has a lot to say, and of course also the Women's Institute and for Equal Opportunities. The conclusions of the bodies that I have just said, and which are largely reflected in our reports, are based on the triple dimension that the pandemic has at the health, social and economic level, and how these three fields need to be analysed in all light with a perspective and a gender approach. We share, of course, that diagnosis; this is why it is reflected in our reports. We share, of course, Professor Bastida's diagnosis, and it's not least the representative that we ourselves proposed, and we also share what you point out is that a specific study is needed within the autonomous community. Because if it's true that there are many common places for pandemic affection in the gender gap, it's also true that there is a specific analysis of each territory. That's why we've been in charge, since the end of last year, of this own study on the impact of covid-19 on the employment of women in Galicia. We have just reported on February 8 in response to the written answer to this question, but here I will report on the purpose of the study, in particular, the seven points that form part of this study, which will be ready in the coming weeks and which, of course, we will make available to the House. The purpose of the study is, firstly, to analyze the labour and professional situation by sectors and provinces resulting from the crisis of the coward, both in employed and unemployed workers, and also to rely on their own views on the impact of the pandemic on the quality or loss of employment. Secondly, detect existing barriers and needs in the field of formalisation and digitisation. Thirdly, to achieve qualitative results in relation to employment and training, which enable the Council to support future programmes and policies in these areas. Fourthly, it proposes measures, actions and actions that dynamic and activate the economy and employment. Fifthly, to know the degree of employment of telework following the pandemic and which causes or discourages their promotion in the company. Sixth point, to analyze the reconciliation of working women in Greece, to what extent this reconciliation is carried out and what actions we can move to increase it. In the seventh place, know the degree of implementation of equality plans in companies; if workers do indeed know these equality measures and the harassment protocol at their disposal. It is therefore a study of its own and autonomous level that -- as I say -- will be available in the coming weeks and will allow us to have a real-time photograph of the impact of the cowardship on the Greek women. Having said this, I also believe that it is necessary to make a statement that we have conducted a specific study in the macroeconomic survey conducted by Junta in July concerning the effect of cowardice on the field of gender-based violence, and it is also important to stress it. As you know, this was the third macro-enquisition that is done in the autonomous community, and it's a survey with a much wider field, because it was 3,874 people polled. And a third block was incorporated, precisely because of the cowardice, in relation to gender violence during the first state of alarm caused by the cowardice-19. Finally, these are the reports and studies we've already done -- as I say -- some of them are about to finish. But we are not expecting, of course, the latest results of the last report, but we have already started programmes and measures. And then I can't agree that the self-government or the Employment and Equality Council are on our arms and without doing anything, which is a little what comes out of some of the issues you're referring to. All these reports and international bodies, ultimately, speak of the issues that in a ninety percent are common to all Western states. They talk about the measures that must be implemented to somehow correct these possible inequalities as a result of the pandemic. And of course they all have an impact on equal work, conciliation and co-responsibility measures, on the one hand. On the other hand, in active policy measures in a broad sense, i.e. training women, in this case, as well as positive discrimination measures as regards self-employment, as regards employment in the ordinary enterprise. And also, of course, measures on gender-based violence. I think these are the measures we're developing and we've been developing for some time in the Galician Union, but they're increasing precisely because of the pandemic. In the matter of -- as I said --, first of all, reconciliation, co-responsibility and equal work, we have the help of reconciling family and work life and more by reducing the working day. In 2020, 235 persons of this aid were granted, and this year we have just increased to EUR 1.1 million in the year 2021 the amount of this aid, compared to EUR 451,000 in 2020. We also have help in reconciling motherhood or paternity for self-government. In this case, the year 2021 will be half a million euros to compensate for the recruitment of support, after the termination of maternity leave or self-employed parenthood, up to 6,000 euros. There is also an aid order for the promotion and consolidation of employment in small businesses and in technology-based enterprises, where 75 % of childcare costs are subsidised, up to a maximum of EUR 3,000. We have the programme of aid to local authorities in Greece for the promotion of equality, which benefited 4,796 parents this year, and which in 2021 increases by EUR 300,000, up to EUR 1 million and a half. And also the order of aid to implement employment equality, conciliation and social and business responsibility in companies, in this case with 1.6 million euros. This order finances incentives to promote teleworking, promoting agreements between the company and the person who teleworking, also promoting agreements between the works council and the company itself to promote time flexibility. And we incorporate, for the first time this year, aid for investments in teleworking, in particular, for the acquisition of computer equipment. We started as a novelty this year with training for workers, as well as trade union representatives in the field of equality. And it is already approved the first training within social dialogue, a minimum knowledge training in the field of equal work. And it is now continued with the modules of knowledge or of medium and maximum training in the matter. And we've created technological instruments to facilitate the implementation of Galician business-to-business equality plans. It is a self-diagnosis tool that allows companies, through this free instrument, to periodically evaluate their level of maturity in the implementation of equality plans. It is designed to know the comparative situation that the company has with respect to other organizations and, in some ways, to contribute to laying the foundations for defining and implementing or optimizing its equality plan. We continue to advise on the development, implementation and follow-up of business equality plans. And we encourage the certification of excellence on an equal footing by companies. We continue to insist on equal training, conciliation and co-responsibility. With training actions, be it training for the unemployed or the unemployed, where there is a cross-sectional module of compulsory equality for all workers. In dual employment workshops we also continue to provide an equality module of a mandatory nature. Secondly, all of these reports point to a second group of measures, which are active policy measures in the field of both training and incentives for recruitment and self-employment. In this sense, we have specific training programmes for women: the Medrando Together programme, which is a formative program directed at women who are part of social economy entities, precisely to increase their presence in decision-making bodies in entities of this spirit. I'm Executive, which is another training program that also bets on by the female leadership, in the 2020 exercise benefited four hundred women, and they were more than half a million euros invested. And also integrated employment programs directed exclusively to women; these programs have benefited 2,765 women since 2017. In the area of support for entrepreneurship, we have, firstly, and very prominently, the Emega program -- I'm not going to stop here because I have a question about this program later --. There are 300 female jobs created in Galicia each year through this program. Aid for women's self-employment, in particular 9,000 euros in the case of women, compared to the 2,000 euros, which is the ordinary aid. I also promote the Aprol-Economy social programme with measures of positive discrimination for women. And it increases the subsidy in the case of women to 16,500 euros, compared to 6,000 euros on the regular line. And within the Galicia Employment program, which is incentives, recruitment support and the ordinary company, we have the specific Employment Muller program. This year's budget increases 700,000 euros, up to 5 million euros. Last year, 475 women received this support. As I said, the third of the pillars on which, according to these studies, public activity and policies on equality are to be based is about the specific and most sensitive collective in these cases, which are the victims of gender-based violence. In this case, in addition to the economic aid we have been implementing for some time in the autonomous government, measures have been taken to support women victims of gender-based violence in the field of employment. So here's the Work Insertion Program through non-profit entities, which arrived at this last call to 328 women, and 66 achieved a job insertion. A call is scheduled for this year 2021, with 1.4 million euros. And also the Programme for the Promotion of Recruitment by the Councils of Women Victims of Gender Violence, which has reached a recruitment of 92 women victims last year, and which also has 1.4 million euros for this 2021. Nor can we forget -- I think -- the specific reinforcement plan for support for women victims of violence that we adopted at the Council of 20 March 2020, in which it was precisely estimated that confinement required concrete measures, as they were done, and the reinforcement of each and every of the existing measures and support generally. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we stress our commitment to, of course, not to step back and move forward in the fight against gender-based violence and in the struggle for equality. We have this obligation not only with words, but also with actions, as I am seeing here: collaboration, on the one hand, with those studies and, on the other hand, with the public policies that we are developing. In the last ten years, investment in female employment has been about €5 billion, and more than 44,000 women have benefited from public female employment programmes. We are therefore moving forward in knowledge, in the diagnosis of the phenomenon with these data and reports of what we are talking about, and in the elaboration of these public programmes, ultimately to minimize the negative consequences of the pandemic on the population and on the different sectors concerned. Because we think that the struggle for the real equality of women and men -- and there I fully agree with you -- cannot be subject to these circumstances. And the economic consolidation in this case of our country is inexorably due to the gender perspective. For now, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u213	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica roll. Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u214	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your intervention. You would see that in my first turn of this interpellation I made no mention of masquerading violence. And I didn't do it because in this matter I do have to admit -- and it seems fair to do it -- that if you've acted with speed when you start up immediately in collaboration with the women's information centres -- by the way, from here, I also want to value your intensive work over all this time -- this victim's back-up plan. That, in this respect too, we wanted to ask you, please, that this reinforcement plan ceases to be a reinforcement plan, and that all the measures implemented continue and remain so as not to leave. And you know that any extraordinary resource in this matter will always be well invested. The point is that you're telling me that you've submitted three reports and one on employment, and if it was about employment, it wasn't exactly over-affectation, but it does include that gender perspective. But the point is that they present that report about what the BNG spokesman also talked about, this first report, another one about the CIS; yes, from that fact what we know is a little bit the situation and how the information centers lived with the woman. We've got some data, but it's certainly not a diagnosis of the Council, but it's a bit of an account of those meetings. And then there's this report, the report on the action and evaluation of the General Secretariat of Equality. And this report has a previous paragraph, and it has the second one, which are actions launched from the Secretariat. And everything, absolutely everything -- if not, someone tells me the opposite, that I might not be able to see it right -- until evaluation and conclusions, refers to the violence of the macho. We just said that in that respect we have absolutely nothing to reproach them, nothing; all the solutions seem good, but the rest of them... You came here -- and we understand that we already knew or already thought, or we thought this was going to be like this -- you here made a narrative about all the measures that the Council has set in motion, or, in this case, the General Secretariat of Equality, now framed in one of its own councils. Well, the reality is, he did a storytelling about what a counselor does -- something that seems very logical to us, because something has to do, I mean, it's going to be filled with content in that department --. But today he didn't talk about any ad hoc measures for this situation that wasn't about macho violence. And, as I say, that subject is going to stand aside. We have not seen any new measures at all, simply that they expand the budget in some of them. It seems very right to us that they expand the budget, but also maybe we should do -- as we say -- a diagnosis of whether those policies are really appropriate for this moment. Of course, we -- forgive me for telling you -- but 235 people would benefit from a conciliation aid -- well, maybe what they have to think about is that they don't have to increase their share budget, and what they have to do is simplify or make it easier for that resource to reach more families. I mean, maybe we have to take a look at everything as proposed, and that's what we were talking about: maybe these 235 people or families who would benefit from that help could be a lot more if these criteria or requirements were to be flexible. Besides, we're told, as happened to the Bono Council, that expectations were tremendous and eventually there were hundreds of people. Precisely because, among other things, it was very complicated, despite the fact that there were families that directly if they should be beneficiaries, it was very complicated to arrive, to meet each of the requirements that they were required. We here wanted to make a fincapé -- and it won't come to me the time -- is that we consider it essential to elaborate urgently that detailed report on the new situation of the Greek women. This should collect data and assessments on the work environment, such as health impact, collective involvement of vulnerable women, monomantial families, digital divide, rural factor -- very important too -- and how it affected prostitute women, care -- put in place what is being said right now. Care is the most important variable today, because co-responsibility, this concept of co-responsibility, derives from this new care organization. If we take that variable into account, and we constantly take it into account in any action of our own, there has to be -- as there is already a concept that exists, which is the care economy -- because you have to introduce that perspective into the policies and action lines that are about to be implemented. And that is indeed the responsibility of this government, of its government. It is not that they are responsible for the situation of inequality resulting from the lack of such co-responsibility, but they are responsible for the lack of actions that lead to reflection and change this scenario. And that's what we want you to understand, that in your hand it is: first, to do a rigorous analysis of the situation applied to our territory and our women, with exactly that target audience, that target, that target, focused on those women who need it, with all their specific problems, and then to implement actions. But that's not what they were, that we had more budget, no. They turn it around, think it over, and maybe that's probably some of those games, if they check it out, their effectiveness wasn't, and maybe they need to reduce budget in some of those games to be used for others. I don't know, we think that's the exercise they should do. I thank you very much, too, for your constructive response and, of course, as I said this morning, that they know that here the PSdeg will always be trying to help in everything that has to do with equality policies. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u216	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Thank you, too, Counselor, for your answer. We look good at the studies that are going to be done, I think we've said it here since the BNG on more occasions, since we've rebooted this legislation and also this session period. We have the impression that they're going a little late. We always set a lot of examples, because it's true that until now at least the Basque Government, for example, has always worked very well through the Emakunde. Now they've made the decision to link all equality policies to other areas of government, which I -- God has free me to give my opinion here about other governments, we have enough with our country -- I think it's a wrong decision. But for example, the Emakunde has already prepared a study, for example, since the state of alarm began practically; almost a year ago it began confinement, starting from what was the situation they had in their country, but it doesn't differ much, beyond the particularities of each territory, than we have here in Galicia as well. For example, something that I think should be a work tool with which governments -- everyone, not just the Galician Union -- designed their public policies, and also following the recommendations of the European Community institutions, is the rate of equality according to the methodology used by the Union. What's the situation we're starting from, and what's the situation we're going to be with-- we expect sooner than later -- to get out of the safe house at least? And we've been there since the BNG. What we think is that we can't go with the "horse, horse, king" before. We are not on a stage where the same policies that have been developed are what we need to deal with a situation of enormous magnitude, as I was saying or trying to explain in my first intervention. We are faced with a radically different scenario, probably a scenario that we have not seen, not in decades, but probably in centuries, with regard to the backwardness of those equality quotas that have been achieved through the tireless struggle of feminist organizations and women, not just of Galicia, but of the world. We can't go with that "horse, horse, king." And you, for example, in your intervention -- and I think it's all right -- described the policies that are in progress or those that have been put into operation in recent years, but I think we have to make a much deeper reflection, precisely because we need to think more about the future and not so much about the past, especially by evaluating the results that have given those policies that have been put into operation in recent years. And I'm going to focus on those three items or those three elements of analysis that we also introduced at the beginning of the debate. That reconciliation that we've always been focusing on from women's point of view. We try to spread tools, services that are essential and fundamental to social co-responsibility. But we continue to be subject to all women's policies. And what about half of humanity, what about those men who at all -- and then I agree with what was said in the morning -- took on the part that corresponds to their own support and maintenance of life? I give the data again: 91.6 percent of the child and child care surpluses in this country are women, and 87% of those who are inactive for child care and dependents are women. For when, really, is a speech addressed directly to half of humanity, and policies thought that there is a part of the society of the world that decides to decline its own responsibility? [[Applause]] And the whole of society assumes as something natural that women have that role of a caring mother, absolutely traditional, patriarchal and machist, and that in times of crisis, as we saw in this, where these conciliation services disappear, we assume again on our backs. What are the two results of that pay gap? That's why I was focusing on what happens to younger people, who have already joined the labour market with legislation, which I had come to repeat, which was a violation of human rights to pay less for the same job in case I was a woman. Between 26 and 35 years -- I told you before -- 14 %; it's 2,345 euros less a year. Between 18 and 25, the salary divide amounts to 23.7%, almost twenty-four percent, and is also one of the highest, almost, in the different age ranges. What is this situation for? It's good that we're described in politics; that's good. But what is the reflection of the Government of Galicia? We vote it or not, we like it more or less, it's the government of this country, and we want to know from the BNG what reflection does the Government. Why is that greater precariousness, that greater temporality, that greater partiality? Why does that pay gap continue to persist in generations where legislation supposedly would not allow it to happen? Under what conditions do women work, which are essential -- and we saw, and all of us recognize that they were essential during this pandemic --? What is the condition of a grocery store, a locker, an assistant in the home help service? What are the working conditions of waitresses, cooks, residents workers or health researchers in this country? Those 10,200 women I was talking about who left their jobs and became inactive inside the homes working, although not paid, but what do we say -- from the wage market, what's going to happen to these women, are we going to make policies that are going to be re-entered into the wage labor? will there be some kind of reflection on the productive sectors of those 10,200 women? To me, simply, these days -- and with this ending -- by preparing the intervention, I would come to mind again and again that phrase by Simone de Beauvoir that said, "It will suffice an economic, political or religious crisis for women's rights to be questioned." We're exactly at that moment, and what we can't afford is an involution, a retreat that places us, not ten, not twenty, not thirty, but probably fifty or a hundred years ago. That is where we want to take the debate from the BNG: to sit, to put this country's bow in the future and, above all, to prevent the existing inequality from being consolidated, and the worst, which goes to a lot more, as all the data point. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the gap, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u218	Thank you, President. Thank you to the two honourable Members. I again point out that I agree with many of the things that have been mentioned again, but there are others who still cannot agree with you. In the absence of advance and in the absence of new measures it is impossible for the Council to agree with what they are saying here. So much so that the Government anticipated that months ago in October I was asked -- and I don't remember which of the two forces of the opposition -- which were the reasons for the link of the Employment and Equality Council. I believe that it is more explained than ever, surely, in the speeches of the honourable Members and in my own speech today. The Galician Council anticipated ahead of time that no one in this legislate number XI and put, precisely, the two competitions, equality and employment, in the same council, and this is no coincidence. It is precisely because we are conscious, and we are aware from the very first moment in which government is created, of the results that began to appear in statistics regarding the effects of the pandemic. Of course, we are aware that there are particularly masculine sectors and areas in the workplace. We are perfectly aware of the lack of female presence in certain areas of leadership. And we are aware that all of us, and of course the Government, have to fight to break this situation. It is also true that I do not agree with all the analyses that you do in relation to the situation of female employment. There's data from the EPA that they gave, but there are others that don't point out to you, for example, that the rate of unemployment among Galician women was five points below the national average; how about the evolution of last year's occupation by quarters in relation to women improved in the third and fourth quarters. In the third quarter there was a positive balance of women's occupation; it was 8100 women who joined the labour market. In the fourth quarter there was also a positive balance, namely 3,800 new workers. I share the need -- as I told you -- for X-rays on the Greek market, and so on, and it's going to be in the coming weeks and but it's at your disposal. But if it is true that the reports we have already submitted, and the existing reports and those you are aware of, speak not only of an analysis of the situation at international and Community level, but also of the necessary measures that must begin to take governments on this issue. And I think -- and because it's very brief, I'm going to take the summary of the report by the General Secretariat of Equality -- that the policies we're developing, of which I've just noticed, are precisely and are focusing on policies that both the UN and the European Union, as the International Workers' Organization and the Women's Institute themselves recommend. They are talking about designing specific programmes within the budgetary frameworks, where economic resources are signed, taking into account the different circumstances of women and men, and we are doing so in all active employment policies. It is not true that the programmes I spoke about are all programs of the General Secretariat of Equality. It's more like most of them are programs of work, part of the Council's work. All co-responsibility programmes within the corporate social responsibility of companies, all recruitment incentives programs with positive discrimination and all self-employment programs are employment programs, which I think meet -- with this particular measure I'm talking about. They speak of these adoption reports that encourage co-responsibility with accessible and quality care services for all citizens. We exceed the ratio in children's schools and now we have the children's houses that the European Community recommends. I believe that we are pioneers in this autonomous community precisely in care or in conciliation measures in relation to children's schools. They are talking about encouraging flexible new working methods in the business field. That's why I used to talk to you about those aids that we're going to give to companies to carry out agreements with business committees, agreements with workers on teleworking, flexibility and computer equipment. We truly believe that all these flexibility measures must be encouraged in companies, and that is why we devote more than a million euros to these measures. It speaks, as a fourth measure, of paying special attention to single-parent families. The help of reconciliation and co-responsibility given from the General Secretariat of Equality, directly to the families, is either exclusively or solely to facilitate the reconciliation of men, or of single-parent families, with which these aid will be so. In 2020, we are moving ahead with this recommendation -- as I say -- of the UN and of the European Union. As I say, we have moved forward from the very first moment, and we are moving ahead in the very constitution of the Employment and Equality Council, from the very first moment, since the budgets are presented in this chamber, and the autonomous Government is making a proposal which increases 32% of the budgets for employment policies and equality policies. It is precisely because we understand that it is a context where more credit increases are needed to achieve better job opportunities and in a context of equality. We have already supported the Greek families from the very first moment and, of course, the women and men with the rescue plans that we have set in motion since the end of last year. I stress the conciliation and co-responsibility measures that we will also begin to deal with within the framework of the social dialogue. And also the new aid that will be given for the inclusion of women victims of gender-based violence, who also seek to incorporate victims of violence, not only in municipalities, not only in social-initiative entities, but in ordinary companies. It's essential -- I think -- also the training that we are giving to the workers themselves, and to their trade union representations and business representations, because it's very important that they keep the policies of equality in the productive fabric, that the workers really know what a plan of equality is, that the workers can actually follow up on the equality plan and that their union representatives and the company themselves know how a plan works. It is not so much about having adopted the equality plan, which is important, but about making a proper follow-up in the execution of the plan, because otherwise the equality plan is worth nothing. That's why we insist so much on training within our own productive fabric. We are going to be the first public administration to provide online training on labour harassment. The Ministry of Equality has not even launched this initiative. As I say, we have, or we are implementing, a computer application to facilitate companies themselves to follow up on equality plans. We are pioneers in programs as old as the year 1996 as the Emega program, which increases quantitatively in budgeting this year; then we will talk about this. I'm not going to stop -- you said it, Mrs. Díaz -- in the issue concerning women victims of gender-based violence, which I think is doing a very good job, and I am in the context of the pandemic, by the Galician Union. The Greek Government believes that it has demonstrated its commitment to the female collective, and -- as I said to them -- over the last ten years we have invested more than four hundred seventy million to four hundred thousand women who would benefit from female employment. It's not just a matter of being up to date right now in the wake of the pandemic, which I think we're doing, but we've been working around in this field. Without a doubt, we are making very significant efforts at this point, or we are intensifying them, taking into account precisely this context or the possible repercussions of the pandemic. More than ever if I think, in this context, the struggle for equality should be a link in society, a nexus to dialogue, and so we are doing it here today in institutions and among political parties. And if I believe that the nuances that differentiate us should not prevent us from seeing the real reason that unites them, which is that in today's context we are facing great challenges. The struggle for real and gender equality and against gender-based violence is undoubtedly one of them, but I also think that the pandemic is providing us with great learning, great opportunities, and I hope and hope that we will not let them go. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u219	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Question by Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in connection with obtaining new opportunities for energy exploitation in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u220	Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u221	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. More than a year ago Endesa announced the closure of the bridge thermal power plant. During this year, the entire society of the village of the Bridges, the Town Hall, the Central Business Committee, the trade unions, the carriers, the entrepreneurs..., the entire society of the village of the Bridges -- I insist -- has been looking for solutions to the closure of the central. Solutions that can alleviate the tremendous impact on the economy and on the employment that the closure of the thermal will cause in the locality and throughout the region. More than a year to work, more than a year against the clock, with the urge to deal with the solution and avoid the disaster, exhibiting a unit that can only be achieved in exceptional situations. And, of course, Endesa's announcement has put us all in one of these exceptional situations. The BNG was the first to reach the shoulder; they know it well in the Town Hall of Bridges, where the work of the BNG concellers is being fundamental. In fact, one of them, our colleague Kiko da Silva, leads the special delegation that was formed in the council to draw up the strategic plan. I'm telling you why it's been customary that, instead of answering you about what you do or are planning to do to the Galician Union, instead of answering our questions, you're going to ask where the BNG is, in an exercise of escapist rhetoric that gives evidence of the little consistency of your work and the little consistency of your commitment to accountability and the transparency of the Government. [[Applause]] So, clear that BNG is where it has always been in the Bridges, defending industry, developing alternatives and helping to build social unity on the future of the village, I hope that now you have the right to answer the questions that we bring to this plenary; questions about one of the most serious crises that our country is experiencing, since more than a year ago -- I insist on this -- if you announced the closure of Endesa's thermal. During this year, the crisis committee in the Bridges presented and fought for an industrial and energy-based alternative based on biofuels. It was the organized society of the village of the Bridges which it developed, controlled and defended the viability of this project, not the Union of Galicia. The Board has expressed its support and nothing else. If not, you say so, because now that Endesa says she doesn't agree with that alternative of biofuels, it would be particularly appropriate for the Board to say she has a plan about it. It seems reasonable -- as you like to say -- that the Galician Board had something planned in case Endesa does not see the biofuel project viable, or simply does not want to assume it. It would be reasonable for Junta to have done something more than slapped in the back, as did the society of the Bridges. I repeat the questions that you didn't answer the other day: What plan or expectations does Galician Union handle with respect to biofuels? How many groups could it keep in operation?, could it work permanently or possibly? What price-quilovatio do they value to be able to enter the system? How do you plan to feed the installation?, with muds of the yellow cattle farms?, with muds of the town's debuggers?, would you bring the muds out of Galicia? What do you think of this, the rural and environmental councils, because they seem to have other plans for these muds? What happens now that Endesa is startling and says she's not going to continue with the project? Does it count to Joina with alternatives? Is there another company that can handle the project? Did you assume it as a public society? But there is another issue that worries us even more, because the bi-fuel project has somehow served as an alibi to not start the process of approval of the fair transition agreement; but now, at last, after more than a year, this process has begun. And no one can know that the launch of this fair transition agreement is a process that takes time. A process along which a series of documents must be developed, starting with a protocol between administrations, a diagnosis of the impact of closure, a participatory process and a definition of projects and actions. A process that has been delayed, in other similar cases in the Spanish State, about a year or so. For BNG, of course, an insatiable deadline, and we asked you, Mr. Vice-President: What does Galician Union consider about this? Do you have something done, something advanced to avoid another year's delay? The Town Hall of Bridges does. Does Galician Union count on any diagnosis of the impact of the closure? Endesa has a study, for example, since January 2019, and the Town Hall also has its report in collaboration with the University of Coruña. Do you have the Galician board any performance proposals or projects for the Bridges? Endesa announced a plan called Future-e, conditioned -- that's yes -- to receive next Generation funds. The Town Hall, for its part, has developed a plan called Strategic Plan 2021-2025, which is what the Union has. Will you assume the work done at the Bridges or will you pay the Pontes society another year of delay for your lack of initiative and foresight? You don't know, either, Mr Vice-President, that just as the energy transition has been designed, the adoption of this instrument, this fair transition agreement, is fundamental. It depends, for example, on whether you can condition the grant of the energy evacuation point, hydraulic use, or the possibility of pushing specific renewables for this territory. It would therefore be very necessary for this process not to delay in time. Bridges cannot afford another year of uncertainty and governmental inaction. The Union must commit itself at once, commit itself with resources to the village of the Bridges and to the rest of the region. We, like BNG, also present proposals and projects linked to industry and energy for The Bridges. We have brought this Parliament, in the process of adoption of budgets, the proposal to set up a centre for the R & D+I energy storage in the Bridges; they voted against it. By the way, I would like to remind you here that, for example, in Euskadi they have already removed the bid to build an energy-related technology centre, the Energy Intelligence Center, which, according to statements by the Basque Economic Promotion Advisor, will go ahead with European funds or without them. In fact, the Basque Government has already committed 40 million euros. Same as Junta! The center of R+D+I for the storage of the energy proposed by BNG would mean putting The Bridges and Galicia at the vanguard of the energy transition, but really, not of the mouthpiece. It would mean that Galicia finally takes a step forward in the energy sector to not only be a power producer, but also a technology provider. And the locality of the Bridges is the perfect place, because it has experience and culture in the energy industry and it has, in addition, different resources and sources of energy production, from wind to hydraulics, going through the combined cycle of gas. You rejected this proposal the other day, saying, "Go tell the bridge workers, because I don't think so." I repeat that the people of the Bridge know the work and the proposals of the BNG. And there's no one in the bridges -- it seems to be the difference between what's going on in the Union -- that I don't understand the qualitative leap that would represent the constitution of a technological center for the storage of energy that was referenced to the entire Spanish state, and with the vocation of being in the vanguard of Europe. He understands it well at Euskadi and he understands it well at the Bridges. You guys, for reasons you'll have to explain, you don't want to understand. Finally, Mr President, what plan does the Galician Board have for the village of Pontes after a year of announcing the closure of the thermal? Nothing else for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u222	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, the BNG arrives at the Bridges in good time. Undoubtedly, the Galician Nationalist Block has a bad conscience about the uncertainty that the workers of the bridge power station, auxiliary industry and transporters live. Because you, Mr. Fernández, are evaluating through your political group the accelerated and unfair energy transition of the Socialist Party's Government. Because after two months, Mr. Fernández, the Galego Nationalist Block continues without defending the continuity of the plant through biofuels, and because they do not defend an industrial solution for women and men who work today as specialists in production operations, maintenance and logistics activities. The solution of the Galego Nationalist Block, which has now again been referred to, is that these workers and self-employed have a centre for competitiveness and R+D+i in the storage of energy charged -- and I quote textually -- "to carry out projects, manage them and monitor them, as well as to participate in the development of tools and technologies that improve the flexibility and security of the electrical network." That is, the BNG's proposal for Bridges is to convert the 1,500 professionals who have been working their entire lives in the operation of the R & D research and staff, to hire them -- according to you say -- in a center -- we understand that public -- which is financed by 100 million euros of European funds Next Generation from here to 2023. And then what, Your Honor. With all due respect, either they don't know whether a centre of knowledge is dedicated to or they don't know that the economic impact of the central closure is between 30 and 50 million euros a year, or they just think we don't know, both the workers and the Galician Union, the reality of the plant -- I'm sure none of the three --. Unfortunately, the BNG began to wake up late, as always, of the workers of the plant, the auxiliary industry and the transporters. They have been and are still standing, Mr. Fernández, alongside those who defend the closure of the power station. And now that they realize the consequences they want to conceal their abandonment by presenting an alternative that does not meet the demand for continuity of jobs. They do so without any sort of feasibility report, they do so without any kind of timeline, and what most of the attention is that they continue without presenting their proposals to the Reactivation Commission, which was created in this Parliament precisely to consensualize among all parliamentary groups the future of the different projects that can be promoted through the next generation funds. The difference with you is that we also work on medium-term projects to opt for European funds, but without forgetting the immediate future of these workers and their families, which is exactly what BNG is doing. You speak of unity, you should certainly try to collaborate and come to this Parliament to collaborate with the Council of Galicia and to make a common front to defend the interests of the workers, which is what they are not doing. They just want to come, Mr. Fernández, confronting the Government. And so, of course, the workers will find no solution. You're talking about the Galician Union just not collaborating. You should know -- or you know, but you don't want to admit -- that the Galician Union, together with the Transitional Ministry, through the Inega and through IDAE, are the ones that are developing technical work to evaluate the use of biofuels in this facility, evidence that they have shown that this option is a viable option, from the technical and environmental point of view, to extend the plant's useful life by using 100 percent renewable energy. Tests were carried out with different mixtures of coal and biomass and it was found that combustion is viable -- maximum after the start-up of the desulphurization plant --. In fact, from an environmental point of view, final evidence shows that current and future emission limits are met, that liquid effluents comply with integrated environmental authorisation values and that ash is acceptable for a container of non-hazardous waste with additional environmental protection measures. It's an evaluated reality -- as I told you -- by the technicians of the Galician Council and the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, which, by the way, forced Endesa to rectify her unilateral decision to abandon the follow-up commission and therefore work to give continuity to the central. Now it's time to keep working together -- let's hope that with the support of BNG, which until now has not manifested itself --. And we'll continue to work together to boost the economic viability of the power plant from the data provided by the evidence. We have the commitment of Vice President Fourth and Minister of Ecological Transition, after the meeting he held with the President of Galicia last Thursday. And of course, the Welsh administration will continue to be involved in a fair transition to The Bridges. But commitment to the Bridges goes further. And so, Your Honor, last Thursday we also got the Ministry's confirmation that it will soon launch the participatory process for the elaboration of the fair transition agreement in the bridge area, the adjudication of a EUR 27 million share of renewable energy projects and a package of measures specific to just transition areas -- within, precisely, the Next Generation funds -- of an amount of EUR 300 million. On the other hand, he also knows perfectly well that the Galician Union is working on identifying projects for these funds by the hand of the Committee of Experts and Economic and Social Agents, with the absence, once again, of the collaboration and participation of the Galician Nationalist Block -- although these projects were presented in the Reactivation Commission -- which you don't want to do. First, in October, we presented an initial candidacy with proposals aligned with both the guidelines set out by Europe and the Government's own plan. And secondly, we present public and private initiatives to all of the manifestations of interest that are opening up by the ministries. He knows we're pushing a pole for the transformation of Galicia, based on the collaboration of thirty companies and technology centres, and to develop eight strategic projects that in three years will mobilise 3,300 million euros. And you know that one of them is the first plant for the production of green hydrogen on the Bridges -- the hand of Reganosa -- and a second that was proposed by Naturgy in Meirama, precisely from the electricity coming from renewables. He knows, therefore, that we are working directly in the future of the Bridges. And you know, therefore, that there is a comprehensive and ambitious project to boost the fair transition, a project that can have that capacity to develop priority sectors in the shift towards a climate-neutral economy, with the capacity to increase the sustainability of Greek companies and also with the capacity to generate, Mr. Fernández, industrial employment in our autonomous community. So that these and other projects that we can present from Galicia may be possible, we have taken a new step with the decision to put in place a new public-private collaboration mechanism, that public-private collaboration that you refuse to promote industrial projects in our autonomous community; a mechanism that will allow speed and traction capacity to projects, which will allow you to develop feasibility studies, business models, and that will also allow, Mr. Fernández, to raise funds and identify industrial partners and technological partners who can launch the different projects. And I also remind you that this parliamentary group and this government are defending and are going to apply a reactivation law passed yesterday in this Parliament -- once again, without the support of the BNG or the Socialist Group -- to develop a new administrative culture that can develop all these projects within the deadlines that the European Commission has set. Because if projects are not developed in time and in form, we can't have these funds back. So, Mr Fernández, this government has a firm and real commitment to concrete actions so that Galicia will remain green without giving up our industrial specialization. Unfortunately, the Galego Nationalist Block says that they're going to work to turn the energy transition into an opportunity but one day yes and another, Mr. Fernández, they're also dedicated to destabilizing any project, any company, whatever they like. It should be remembered that Galicia's weight in Spanish industrial production is almost 15 % higher than the weight of the whole of the other sectors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u224	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Fernández Alfonso's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank you, Mr Vice-President, for at least avoiding the tejan accent for "we're working on this" [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Vice-President, the Strategy for the Right Transition, designed by the Government of Spain, the draft on the energy storage developed by the ministry, but all organisms of their beloved European Union insist on the recommendation to take advantage of the energy transition to boost a more technologically-based production model change and high-value added goods and services. The BNG proposal is absolutely consistent with these recommendations of the European Union. We're told that energy storage will be a key technology for the energy transition to materialize. We are told that technology centres like this would have the effect of attracting to the territories where other companies in the energy and technology sector are located. Well, BNG actually wants high value added companies to be installed on the Bridges. We told him. We say it by active and passive: we have to take a qualitative leap from being mere energy producers to also providing technology. Why are the Galician Union and the People's Party against? Tell us why. If you have other plans for the Bridges, it's time you put them on the table. We fear they don't have them. At least, in the budgets of his vice-presidency there was nothing recorded for the energy transition in the village of the Bridges. And there's another basic question about which the board doesn't pronounce, which is Endesa's plans. What do you think of the Board that Endesa presents a totally conditional plan for obtaining Next Generation funds?, what happens if it doesn't get those funds?, what do you think the Board of Galicia thinks that in a scenario of scarce economic resources, scarce public resources, compared to the immense needs caused by the pandemic, are going to the great energies by rebutting the aid? Or, in other words, how does the Galician Board of Directors feel that we are all, that it is citizenship in general, who ends up paying for the technological and business change of big energy companies?, don't you think a little obscene? Because I suppose no one will doubt that the European funds bill will be paid for the escort. Won't there be more sectors in need of help? In the village of the Bridges they have previous experiences about the reduction of activity by Endesa, experiences we all know, and in which Endesa, who earned billions on account of local energy resources, brought up own funds to alleviate the effects of its activity reductions. Today, in a scenario of economic data, employment and demographics worse than on other occasions, in a scenario -- not activity reduction, but closure -- where Endesa continues to earn millions, why don't mechanisms for promotion and industrial impulses be explored in the bridges where Endesa, in collaboration with Together and the Town Hall, put money? Endesa has just published some results of the year 2020 of 1.4 billion, and it will all pay back its shareholder Enel, an Italian public company. No one could understand that, after all, and in current circumstances -- we insist -- of great needs, we end up paying Endesa the transformation of his business into the future. What, by the way, will those small and medium-sized companies think every day further than the governance priorities of the Galician Union? It's over, Mr. Vice President. Please clarify and quantify what the biofuel project represents, because it continues without answering the questions. What is the position on this from the Rural and Environmental Councils? It accelerates the processing of the fair transition agreement or accepts and assumes the documentation prepared by the Council of Bridges. Don't keep your arms crossed, go ahead with the work, as the Town Hall does, as the society of the Bridges does. And go by defining and developing projects where, please, they're not going to be the village of the Bridges and Galicia the payouts of this transition, which is nothing but the business change of big energy companies. He is concerned about ensuring a social return to wealth that generates our energy resources. It is concerned to promote the necessary technological leap of our productive tissue with initiatives such as BNG's proposal to set up an R & D+I centre for energy storage in the Bridges. Look in the Basque Government mirror, which has clear where the future goes and pushes projects with 40 million euros, as we propose to The Bridges. I assure you that the people of the Bridge can appreciate these projects well, and I assure you that they will also appreciate their lack. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u226	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation. Mr Second Vice-President and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, I particularly appreciate your clarity in the answer. And today, in front of this camera, you, the Galego Nationalist Block, suggest that the proposal they have for The Bridges is to close the bridge center and not give the workers, the auxiliary industry and the transporters an opportunity to keep the plant open through the enhancement of biofuels. That's your proposal; it's not Galicia's proposal. On his conscience, of course, he will weigh any future situation. It's very simple: you defend the closure of the power station; we don't defend it. That's the situation. You're talking to me about the power storage center. I have just transferred that there is a project presented by Reganosa, which is attended by the Galician Union about thirty percent, which is considering the construction of a hydrogen plant in the Bridges. Where is the lack of commitment on the part of the Galician Union to the Bridges? And I should review the budgets -- because we have to come up with the data on the table, Mr. Fernández -- and I would see that in the budgets of the year 2021 the Galician Union is committed to all co-financing with the Bridge Council for projects that have presented in that interest group, in which we are jointly participating in the Bridge Council and the Galician Union. And also a co-financing to set up a reindustrialization office, jointly the Council of Bridges and the Galician Union. Mr. Fernández, I'm sorry that once again the position of the Galician Nationalist Block is to turn its back on the industry. They turned their backs on Elnosa, they're back on the workers of Ence, they're back on Navantia and its auxiliary industry, and now they're back on the workers of the bridge plant, the transporters and the auxiliary industry. I'm sorry you're not supporting an industrial future for Galicia. But there, of course, they won't find the Galician Union and neither will the Galician People's Party. I make a little reference to your election program. Do you know how much industrial policy is involved in the Nationalist Block in Wales? Three paragraphs! To simply say that your country project in industry is a set of public policies agreed on in the plan for the promotion of technological and industrial activity. Mr. Fernández, Galicia, workers and economic and social agents need a bet on industry, quality employment. And, unfortunately, you're the only thing that just makes you believe in what you can control. Because that's their policy: they bet on the public and they just deny the private; they refuse public-private collaboration; they deny, Mr. Fernández, entrepreneurs, workers, self-employed, micro-enterprises, pemes... they finally deny the industry. And then I tell you he won't find this Galician board. So we will continue to work to promote industrial projects and to be next to industry. And that's why we will continue to defend the workers of Endesa The Bridges, we will continue to defend the workers of Ence, the workers of Alua, the workers of Alu Iberica, the workers of Navantia, to whom you are simply giving your back, as I told you. We will continue ultimately with the project so that the bridges can have a future, so that the bridge power plant can continue to operate through biofuels with renewable energy; we will continue to bet on the development of renewable energies in the bridges, and we will continue to bet, above all, on industrial employment. And when he talks to me about transition agreements, I remind the Galician Nationalist Block and I also remind the Socialist Party that the Government has not yet responded to the Galician proposal for it to be included in the Fair Transition Agreement that the Government has signed with trade unions and companies, and has left out the autonomous communities. We continue to wait for the support of the Galego Nationalist Block and for the support of the Socialist Party to make the Galician Union part of the Fair Transition Agreement, where decisions are being made, by the way, which are also the competence of the Galician Union itself, as are the active employment policies that are intended to apply to the workers of the Bridges. Please focus on the general interests, focus on the interests of the bridge workers, and focus, above all, on the industrial future of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u228	Thank you, Vice President. We move on to the ninth item on the agenda, questions to the Government. Change in the development of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u229	We started by a change in the agenda. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and seven other Members, by Mr P. Popular de Galicia, on the knowledge by the Government of Greece of some initiative by the Central Government to bring direct and deep aid to the sectors most affected by the restrictions arising from the Covid-19, in particular hospitality, self-government and pemes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u230	Question by Mrs. Maria Murillo of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u231	Yes, thank you, President. Vice President, thank you very much for always facing the problems of the Greeks. It's not easy to make decisions at difficult times, it's not easy to rule. But it is true that the Greeks chose this government, elected the Government of the People's Party, and people continue to trust you. The help from the board arrived, and they arrived after you had escorted all the people, affected by the pandemic. He's been with me from the very first moment. He went first to coordinate emergencies at the beginning and then to accompany when he met with all the affected sectors. We know your work. It was months of meeting, months that ended sometimes with consensus and some without it. But we know there was work, and the help of the Galician Union came from that work. They came to alleviate many of the losses suffered by this sector, which suffered by the restrictions that had to be taken by the coward. With two rescue plans, worth one hundred and sixty million euros, Galicia, Mr Vice-President, was one of the first communities to assume the needs and absence of that aid management that had to be urgent because the sector was dying. The processing was agile, and I know that the most agile is being, according to the processing of the second rescue plan, because you met and listened. It is true that many of the contributions from this sector have been collected in the terms of this second rescue plan. I know of the difficulties of negotiations, and sometimes of the demagogy of many who want to make themselves own and use politically the transmission of messages. Thank you for the sector -- and this is how it transmits to you -- that, in fact, even the lack of consensus with Members and with Fegamp at those many meetings, you decided to go ahead with the second rescue plan, without waiting for more time, because there was no time. It is true that on that wait you left the door open so that the deputies and the municipalities who wanted it would adapt and adhere to the second plan. Because it's true, Mr. Vice-President: the important thing is to help the sector, not to lose who gets the best in the picture. Many Greek families, many autonomous, many small traders won't get out of this crisis normally. Your lives and your business will have difficulties, and you have to think about the day after. We need all the help from all the administrations. Interestingly, this very morning I listened to the President of the Government, Mr. Sánchez, who said that he would come out of the crisis when the pandemic was controlled. I don't think you know what you're saying. It's true that when the pandemic is over, we'll have a lot more crisis and we'll have to think about the day after. The help of the Galician board, which chose this sector, was the highest of the data among all the autonomous communities in the state, while for the time being, until this very morning -- which I think is more advertising and propaganda -- we don't know the direct help. And I don't think they're going to be directly from the Government of Spain, the Socialist Government of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Murillo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u233	...for a sector like the hostel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u234	Mrs. Murillo, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Murillo, indeed, did not give her time to finish the exhibition by asking the question, which is anyway in writing... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you have anything to say. [[Murmurs.]] I'll continue, okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He said it's in registered writing. It is a question, moreover, that, contrary to what it may seem, today it is full of present-day charges, because it responded or posed a horrendous situation of absence of intervention by the State, in which the sector claims, all sectors affected more and more strongly and with more anguish, which is that they are being helped directly at a time when, if they do not have these aids -- as you said -- many of them will not be able to reach the shore that is being announced to us. In fact, Mr. Sánchez, in that absence of pandemic management, it all consists -- he already told us in June last year -- in winning the virus, in overcoming it all, and everything will be fixed magically. It is noted that it is not in the day-to-day management, if not, that it would not only be aware of the difficult health management, but of the difficult economic landscape that is presented to so many people so directly affected by the consequences and prejudices that this pandemic is causing. And the Galician Union, of course, as if it's on the day-to-day of all these things, just like all the autonomous communities of all political colors, we're realizing that next to the health crisis, along with the health prejudices, they're already happening right now -- and, of course, they're going to come unfortunately, then when we go through the worst of the health situation -- many economic prejudices. A lot of things have happened this year. The Galician Union is actually going for the second rescue plan. The Galician Union -- in my skills -- approved a tourism shock plan. The counsellor who has just intervened in the interlocution has adjudicated many measures from the Igape and from the other sectors dependent on his advice to also help the economic sectors that were most suffering from the pandemic, such as pemes, autonomy, trade... finally, we did everything we asked people to do to try to get through this very complicated situation. While -- and I return to your question -- the state has done nothing, indeed, until today. Today you announced the President of the Central Government, Mr. Sánchez, - and welcome the announcement, at last!; it would not be because he was not asking everyone, including the autonomous communities and included many municipalities of all political colors and, of course, those directly affected -- that the Government had finally realized that it was necessary to arbitrate a direct aid plan. But we have to do it now. In fact, there are many unknowns left. I'll talk in my second speech about what this announcement was today -- I have to say -- good news, if it's true. We're not going to criticize what we've been asking for for a long time, but the inaccuracies of the ad themselves are afraid that, probably, -- as you said -- be more than nothing, propaganda. We hope not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u236	Thank you very much, Vice President first. Mrs. Murillo Solis has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u237	Yes, thank you, Vice President. The needs of the self-employed and the reality of small businesses and the situation of the hosthouse greatly affect this parliamentary group; we represent many Greeks. A few days ago, in this same parliament, BNG did not want to bring forward a PP proposal in which we urged the municipalities and the deputies to wake up direct aid and tax subsidies for the sector, while their business was closed. In this same proposal, which they refused, we also required the Council of Galicia to arrive and ask the Government of Spain to lower the VAT in the sector. After the pandemic crisis, it will be necessary to reactivate many sectors vigorously. People are going out slowly, sometimes still afraid, and, of course, it won't be easy to re-fill these businesses. There'll be a lot of people on the way, lots of places that won't open their doors again, but we all have to row in the same direction, making it a little bit easier. We all need a lot of help, and we need help to boost consumption. This very morning, as you speak, I didn't hear the President of the Government speak, in any case, of direct assistance, but of contributions, of performances; a lot of generality. We still don't know if these aids are gonna go to the next ministers' council next week or we're gonna wait even longer. We don't really know. We know, or almost sure, that they won't be direct help as we ask you, but I ask you, Mr Vice-President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u238	Thank you very much, Mrs. Murillo. For the Government's replication turn, the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u239	No, Your Honor. At the meetings we're having -- now they're practically weekly -- with the affected sectors, they always tell us the same thing: they have a conversation with Together, they have an interview with many local administrations. Not at all, for there is some council around that tells them that the pandemic is the responsibility of other administrations and that therefore they are not closing anything and therefore they have no need to give any direct help. They're known municipalities, because, besides, their mayor is the one who talks about this most, and it seems to say above it as if it were a pride, i.e., he doesn't have to help them. But in general, local administrations are acting... well, as if they have to wear administrations when their administrations are really going through it. And what they tell us at the end is that the great demands they need now, that they are all addressed to the state, once they have fulfilled the duty of direct help that we have from the other administrations, they are unanswered and they don't even have a conversation. Today, indeed, that good news that since the Congress of Members' rostrum, the President of the Government, finally, if it is worthy to at least show the sensitivity of saying that he is aware that until now -- and it's been a year -- the State has not given a single direct help to so many people who are going through it frankly wrong. Not only that, but many of the direct aids we're giving to the other administrations have to go to pay the state taxes, which have not been paid at all, neither exonerated nor welcomed... a little welcomed, but not even what they asked for. So those aids we're giving are going to pay taxes, they're going to continue with taxes that right now, if there was a minimal sensitivity, they would have to be, at least, modulated and accompanied by this situation. And even what we had to do now with the second rescue plan, which is to allow debtors to access the aid, when they were indebted to the state, which -- I say again -- did not forgive them at all. So this is the situation. If today the President of the Government tells us "in a few weeks' time," not in a few weeks now. But it doesn't realize that in a week that goes on to the second rescue plan of the Board we already have over 16,000 requests. The central administration is unaware of its urgency. That's for now, it's not to talk in a few weeks, as you said, without any concretion. We don't know if they're going to be direct aids, we don't know if they're going to be compatible with other aids, we don't know what they're going to consist of. We only know that there is an amendment to the entire Central Government itself, which to this day, even at meetings that were held last week, denied active and passively that it had been involved in direct aid, because it seems that it was not necessary, and if there were to give direct help there are other administrations for it. Welcome be the correction of the Government, but now we do put the counter to say that this has to come quickly. It can't be within a few weeks, it can't be with inaccuracies, and it can't start to derive everything again to escape the word that is now essential: direct help that complements the effort we're making other administrations. He took one step today, the Central Government recognized that he had spent a year with his arms crossed. At least, now that he's getting to work. We'll be very careful and I hope you do your part, because really the people who want help need it much more than ever, and the role of the state is essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u240	Thank you very much, Vice President. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question by Mr Martín Seco García and three other Members, by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the presentation by the Greek Government of some industrial tractor project for the municipalities of the Pontes de García Rodríguez and Cerceda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u241	To put the question, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u242	Thank you, President. In 2019, Endesa submitted the formal application for closure of the bridge thermal power plant, resulting from the substantial increase in the price of CO2 rights marked by the European Union. In the face of that decision, and derived from the political and social pressure of the Bridges, a work table was formed with the presence of Endesa itself, local, autonomous and state administrations, the representation of the workers concerned and the Pontesian society, to seek alternatives to the coal that maintains employment and activity in the municipality. He wanted to close the thermal power plant without first summoning the table and present the results of the tests that were made with biofuels, with an improper decision of his corporate social responsibility. Endesa was called to the table by the ministry to analyze the results of these tests, and in it the dependent entities of the ministry, the Galician Board and local technicians exposed their reports that technically and environmentally supported the tests carried out, so Endesa must respond to economic viability or, on the contrary, open the possibility that another operator will launch the biofuel project. The Government of the State remains involved, but unfortunately only in the search for solutions to the industrial problems of Galicia. And you've already announced your support for the biofuel project by putting, in addition, on the table lines of aid for business projects generating jobs in small investment projects, in just transition areas worth EUR 30 million. Another aim is to support initiatives aimed at creating sustainable employment and promoting economic activity in municipalities affected by the closure of coal power plants worth EUR 7 million. It took priority over these areas in the call for aid to renewable energy projects, and on that line aid was granted of 8.4 million euros for renewable thermal installations and another 12 million for power plants. It presented a package of specific measures for transition zones right within the recovery, transformation and resilience plan worth EUR 300 million. And in the renewable hydrogen roadmap it gives special interest to the right transition areas, where project proposals were received in the Bridges and Cerceda. On that line, Mr. Conde, it is necessary for state and autonomous administrations to work together in a clear commitment to the continuity of activity and employment in the bridges, involving the biofuel project. But this bet doesn't agree with the opinion of the rural councillor, who said on several occasions that his government would not support any project where biofuels were burned. The Galician Union has full industrial skills, but we don't know what work it's doing, beyond asking for tables. And seeing the lines set up by the ministry and the aids that will come from Europe, we'd like to know if your government, Mr. Conde, has some economic support line in these areas, and if you've presented some industrial tractor project for the Pontes and Cerceda councils within the hundred and eight announced to go to the European recovery funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Seco, we know perfectly well in this parliament that the mission of the Socialist Group is, above all, to defend the Government of Pedro Sánchez and, in addition, to exercise the powers of the Council of Galicia would mean: firstly, that we will stop claiming what Galicia has to do with State budgets with transparent and objective criteria; secondly, that the Greeks and the Greeks owe us more, and, thirdly, that we join their campaign of contempt for industry and the economy. And I'm telling you that the answer is that no, that no and no, that the Union only owes to the Greeks and to the Greeks and that we will continue to defend the general interests of Galicia. [[Applause]] As I told Mr. Fernández, this government is proud of its productive tissue, maintains a firm commitment to its reactivation, its modernization and its digital and energetic transformation. And that's why we're defending stability before the government and, above all, a fair transition that guarantees the continuity of thousands of workers and workers. And that means, Mr. Seco, defending from this parliament and from the Council of Galicia the works linked to the plants of Cerceda and The Bridges. But it also means, Mr. Seco, defending the naval in Navantia and Ferroterra; it means defending the workers of Alu Iberica in the Coruña; it means defending the workers of Alcoa in the Marine Lucense; it means, Mr. Seco, defending the jobs and the workers of Ence, and it also means defending PSA in Vigo and also defending the chain of the sea and industry across the coast. We defend all these projects. Mr. Seco, in May 2018, Galicia had no conflict than I just mentioned, none. Since the Socialist Party is present, the political decisions that the Government of Pedro Sánchez of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party is taking on a weak line of fifteen thousand industrial jobs in Galicia. The question is: what is the Galician Socialist Party doing to defend industrial employment in Galicia? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u245	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Seco García has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u246	The paper holds everything and the empty words too, Mr. Vice President. [[Applause]] It would be good if they left the bunker where they were sheltered to escape their responsibilities, and do something more than seek guilty, deriving Galicia's problems to other administrations. Galicia needs a government that makes politics in the territory, and it doesn't just stay in what it transmits to the media, as you did here. To that end, the Greeks and the Greeks gave them a majority in this chamber to bring solutions to citizenship and to manage self-government and the powers conferred on them by the Statute of Self-Government. Our group wants to talk about solutions, proposals, projects for our land, and we meet with a government that, until today, has not put more than a little literature on four possible tractor projects that do not degrade, nor say where, how and who will develop them. Until today we can see it as smoke to say they have something to contribute. But with localities like The Bridges or Cerceda can't wait to see if the Government of the Union wakes up from its long industrial sleep, and puts on the table some project to go to the European funds or all those lines of funding from the Ministry of Ecological Transition that it listed before and where we could be putting projects from the Government, which has industrial competences and economic promotion. Are you willing to make the bridge biofuel project a Galician board tractor project to go to the next generation funds, Mr. Conde? What is your department's involvement with this project, Mr. Conde? We don't know. What are the projects that the German Government has prepared for The Bridges and Research that can go to the previously listed help lines and European funds? What are the proposals that the German Government will make for the launch of the just transition agreement in the bridge area? What business initiatives promote the change of production model from the resources of the area has its department? Let's look for solutions, take advantage of the opportunities, all of us in the same direction, Mr. Conde. Let's not continue in the strategy that they rise up in the morning with their cooperation speech and lie down in the evening with the disloyal speech of their voices seeking guilty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u247	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u248	...from inoperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and advisor of Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u250	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Seco, do not confuse yourself: the Government that decided to close the Meirama and The Bridges was the Socialist Party. The Government that is violating its commitment to Navantia's workload is the Socialist Party. [[Protests.]] The Government that is trying to modify the Law of Back through the Law of Climate Change, which prevents the continuity of the Ence in the river is the Socialist Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the Government that approved an electro-intensive consumer statute that penalises and makes the Alu Iberian plant impossible -- and we hope not, but it could also be the Alcoa-San Cibrao plant -- is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, supported by the Socialist Party of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] From then on, if we agree on that, and you stop being spokespersons of Pedro Sánchez and of the United States We can in Galicia, if you stop being spokespersons, then we can talk about Galician projects. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You should know that the Galician Union is working together with the Ministry of Ecological Transition to ensure the continuity of the bridge plant. Tests are being developed jointly between Inega and IDAE. And the question is, why do you come here to confront the Council of Galicia? But you don't know your own government that the Galician Union is working with the Transitional Ministry... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u251	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u252	...to find a future for the bridge center, don't you tell? Well, Mr. Seco, you should. Anyway, we're going to go on. I just said: Galician Union participates in Reganosa, as you know perfectly well. And there are two projects to develop two hydrogen plants: one at the Bridges; another at Meirama, as you said. And do you know who's in those two projects? Reganosa and the Galician Union. So, Mr. Seco, you should have more information, you should have more dialogue with your government and not just read the arguments you have moved from Ferraz, because so, of course, you won't be defending Galician interests. [[Applause]] Mr. Seco, we will continue to work, defending the industrial future of the district of Pontes, the industrial future of the district of Meirama. And what we hope is that the Government and the Socialist Party will continue to support Galicia and give Galicia a fair transition. That means taking measures jointly between the Government of the Socialist Party and the Council of Galicia to ensure the industrial future of all these projects that I have transferred to it. But on the day that the Galician Socialist Party stops calling Madrid to ask what they must vote, surely at that moment you can try...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u253	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u254	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u255	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question from Maria do Carme González Iglesias, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the actions planned by the Government of Galicia to ensure the immediate viability of the Barreras shipyard, Vigo, the survival of its auxiliary industry and the continuity of its shipbuilding activity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u256	To put the question, Mrs González Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u257	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you well know, and so do we, the status of the naval sector in Galicia is really worrying. In the province of Pontevedra, mostly in the Vigo River in 2020, the sector lost 26 % of jobs and 20 % of invoicing, and the forecast is that this is going to be the most. At present, he has only signed new applications from the Armón shipyard, with activity on the Vigo River shipyards falling to the levels of the worst years of the beginning of the last decade. This situation was aggravated by the cowardice, but also by the complicated economic situation that goes through Barriers, because of the tractor effect this yard has on auxiliary companies. Barriers is the largest private shipyard in the state, a company with great capabilities that goes through a complicated situation that gets worse in the absence of workload. Now, this situation is not new. Since the 2008 crisis, the naval construction in Galicia has continued to suffer from the lack of commitments and industrial plans of the Spanish State and the Galician Union. The lack of active policies, support for the sector, little helps the stability of the labour force and the maintenance of employment. The role of the Galician Union in this matter has been null. In the 11 years that the PP has been in government, they haven't been able to put in place a plan for the future for the German naval sector. In contrast, in the European Union, countries such as Germany and France have been able to promote their naval industry and, as a result, are now covering a large part of the world market. They are currently launching support programmes for the naval sector of their countries of EUR 1 billion in the German case, and EUR 1,550 million in the French case. France also includes specific sections for the maritime industry within other recovery programmes in the country. In Galicia, on the other hand, we have no information that the Galician Union is working on heavy projects for the Welsh shipyards, which are betting on the naval sector of our country. Counsellor, we want to know, the Block and the Greeks and the Greeks, if you intend to perform some kind of action to ensure the immediate viability of Barriers, the survival of their naval industry and the continuity of the shipbuilding on the yard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u258	Thank you very much, Mrs González Churches. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u259	Mr. President. Mrs. González, it is very surprising that you in your intervention speak of the naval sector in Galicia, are referring to general data on the situation in the sector and simply obvious that one of the companies most relevant to the naval sector in Galicia, and for its auxiliary industry, is Navantia, that Navantia depends on the workload you are not supporting, because you are not supporting the workload and the military construction in Navantia, and come here to talk about the naval sector. I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u260	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u261	...with that partial vision, the naval sector and its auxiliary industry, by the hand of the Nationalist Block Galego, sure, sure, sure, would have no kind of future. In any case, we, since the Galician Union, have contributed to the shipbuilding sector being a strategic sector that could deal with the economic crisis in the early years of the year 2010 and which could actually meet the needs of the sector. I am very surprised that you intend to compare the situation and responsibilities that Galicia has with other European countries that are using the solvency fund that the European Commission has established and that it has moved to the Member States, and that it wants to accuse us that we are not giving an answer through the solvency fund. But don't you know that it's your government partner in Madrid who has to decide on that solvency fund? Do you not know that SEPI is responsible for resolving your own request for funding that Barriers has submitted? But how do you intend to confuse the Greeks and the naval sector, and especially the Barreras workers, trying to transfer that responsibility to the Galician Union? The fund of solvency, Your Honor, which has other countries like Germany and Holland, to which you have referred, is a fund of what the Government of Spain itself is the depositary. Sepi is responsible for solving these files, and the Barreras file is simply unresolved. And the Galician Union, with respect to Barreras, I remind you that Barreras was in competition, that Barreras had no workload and that Barreras, thanks to the work of the Galician Union, was able to obtain that workload in 2012. We could capitalize on the yard and grant funding to the yard itself so that it could take on the construction of the fleet. And you should also know that the Galician Union has granted loans to the auxiliary industry that had committed debts to Barriers, precisely to ensure the solvency of the auxiliary industry. Your Honor, if anyone is working for Barreras to have a future and for the auxiliary industry to have a future in the Vigo River and the whole of the naval sector is the Unity of Galicia; unfortunately without the support, once again, of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u262	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs González Iglesias has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u263	Mr. Conde, we've taken three speeches and I'm going to give you good news: you're in the government, you have to rule! Because we have to make opposition, come here, ask explanations and ask questions, and you answer. [[Applause]] And my question is, what will you do with the lack of workload in the Vigo River and, specifically, what is the plan that the Galician Union has to ensure the viability of Barriers? And we know he put money on board, put money on CESCE, but BNG doesn't agree to keep putting money at any cost. The Government of the Union must enter the board of directors and in the direction of the shipyards, specifically at Barreras, and control that money goes to the right port; that is to say, it serves to ensure the viability of the yard and to reassure the auxiliaries, who are logically concerned about the viability and the money that they have to return to the board. And stop announcing he's working. Because you know what's going on? That in the steps of Barreras still wanders the ghost of peas. And in Vigo and Barrera we don't want ads, we want to make boats. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u264	Thank you very much, Mrs González Churches. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. González, we then agree with your intervention that, in fact, the solvency fund is a fund that is managing the Government of Spain, that the Government of Spain is responsible for being able to facilitate this funding to the yards, just as other countries like Germany and Holland are doing, and that, therefore, surely, you, who are supporting the Government of Madrid, could give an explanation why SEPI is not solving that claim file by Barreras. But you know, and you have omitted it in your intervention, that just as Barreras has asked for funding of thirty million euros to SEPI, it has also applied for an eight million euros loan to XesGalice, therefore to the Galician Union. I tell you that we are actually assessing the possibility of granting that participatory loan. But, of course, we're going to evaluate it once we have the assurance that, indeed, Barreras has a future project, which will finish the construction cruise in time, that there may be new orders and that there can therefore be a solution for the auxiliary industry. Because that's what the Government does, what the Council of Galicia does: responsibility for the fate of public funds. So we all have to work to get Barriers to clear their present but, above all, their future. And the Galician Union is currently evaluating that possibility with Barreras. So, Your Honor, we are giving concrete and clear answers to the needs of the naval sector. The question is, why do you always make partial readings? Why are they defending Barriers and trying to get workers from Navantia and the iron auxiliary industry unemployed? What is the position of the Galician Nationalist Block from the point of view of the naval sector? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, it's very difficult...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u266	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u267	...to understand the position of BNG, which, on the one hand, calls for industrial employment for the district of Ferrolterra and, on the other hand, have no repair in discrediting any type of project. They're also doing it now with Barreras. You denied collaboration with the Galician Union, when we were looking for a burden of work so that Barriers could have that burden of work; they continually denied and reiterated support for the Galician Union. And now you're trying to transfer that the Galician Union is not acting to give a solution to Barreras. We're doing it, we're evaluating that loan requested by Barreras, we're also evaluating the situation of the auxiliary industry. And they have no doubt that while there is a clear realization that Barriers can have a future, the Galician Union will be supporting, as it has always been, the Barriers, the auxiliary industry and the whole naval sector in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u268	Thank you, Vice President. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u269	Agenda change. Question by Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions that will be carried out in Galicia to prevent the relocation of jobs associated with energy production, as is the case with the Naturgy Operations Centre in Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u270	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u271	Mr Vice-President, at the beginning of this month of February, we knew how Naturgy was taking another step in an in-depth process of dismantling all employment associated with the role of energy producer in our country. He did so by announcing the closure of the Coruña operations centre and the relocation of this service to Madrid. In the same line too, a few days ago, Iberdrola announced the definitive closure of its center in the Sil basin on Valdeorras Street. Yesterday and today, the workers of these two centers mobilized to respond to this situation which, of course, is a social drama, but which is also a drama from the point of view of the impact it has on these regions and which, of course, is a technical and professional nonsense as well. This is understood only from the impunity with which the electricity sector operates in this country, wasting our natural resources without having enough return in terms of employment and value added. A impunity -- you have to say that too -- in which, unfortunately, your government is an active collaborator. That's all that explains what's going on. The board has already put you in charge of the profile when Naturgy has taken care of the client services of the Crown and Ourense. The Galician Union has now become a profile when it gives the final floor with a part of the most technical and better qualified work. And this is intolerable. It's intolerable in addition to a context where Naturgy aspires to manage lots of renewable megawatts, and it's intolerable also in a context where we're also seeing Naturgy trying to get cut out of the energy transition. I ask you, Mr. Conde, if you haven't had time since the first week of February -- I don't say Mr. President of Galicia, but at least you -- to make, at least, a public statement telling Naturgy that you're going to be there, standing at the feet of this offensive you're developing in our country. Of course, it is surprising or disappointing so much silence. Of course, today you have the opportunity to do so, to commit yourself to this chamber, to give explanations, to tell us what you're going to do so that Naturgy will not take these jobs from our country, and tell us what you're doing to reach those commitments that you acquired last February 11 with the workers at a meeting, which, of course, did not leave Galician Union itself, who had to pursue the workers themselves. So, Mr. Conde, we ask you to stop profiling and explain to us what you're going to do to prevent the relocation of jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u272	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, we don't agree, nor, of course, share Naturgy's decision. And that's what we moved him to the company, which, as the Galician Union Council, is our responsibility after listening to the Fenosa Distribution Business Committee, because the Galician Union has already met, of course, with its own committee. Even so, we asked Naturgy to clarify the employment that will be maintained in our country. Because even though we understand that this is a business decision they have communicated, we have transferred and demanded that a balance be maintained with the territories closest to the company. And we will, logically, continue to defend the jobs, and we will continue to protect all investments, all commitments, if they meet the services and, of course, also the employment that the company has in Galicia. You know that the staff of Naturgy in Galicia rises to six hundred and eighty workers, and you know perfectly well that the company has investment obligations to ensure all its commitments and service delivery. And there's no doubt in my mind that since the Galician Union we're going, we're and we're going to continue to demand all the improvements in the distribution network, ensuring quality and security in the power supply. And, of course, Mrs. Presas, we're also demanding Naturgy an industrial solution for Cerceda after the closure of the power plant, so that we can of course continue to maintain that industrial job that was generating the company, which was generating Naturgy in Galicia. He knows perfectly well that the Galician Union is still defending not only the workers, but also the consumers themselves. And he knows that the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition continues to act with total force, and there are two thousand and four hundred sanctioning cases open to Naturgy. So I'm surprised you're trying to move here into Parliament that we're not developing our goal. What seems to be, after listening to your intervention, is that the only thing that becomes clear is that the aim of this question is not to defend the employment of the workers of the Coruña Network Operations Centre. Surely your priority is simply to re-justify the electric model that you were unable to implement in the Bipartite and, of course, simply disqualify the electricity sector and disqualify the Galician Union. And since, unfortunately, that's the case, I'm telling you that you're not helping, you're not trying to defend your interests, nor are you trying to work for the Naturgy workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u274	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u275	Mr. Count, frankly, with all due respect: the Galician Union already disqualifies itself. There's no need for me to come here to say anything in this chamber, because just seeing the attitude of the Galician Union this afternoon already disqualifies itself, because you, today, throughout the afternoon, have already made the vice-president of Reganosa, Enel, Naturgy, Iberdrola... less of the Galician Union, to defend the interests of this country, you have already defended the other interests contrary to the fixing of employment in this country. [[Applause]] You come here and there must be a presumption of work and constancy of the Galician Union, which asks the workers and the Galician Nationalist Block to blindly create. Mr. Conde, if you, if the Galician Board on 11 February has committed to organizing an institutional visit to Naturgy to make public its opposition to this workers' movement and it was not who, one of two: either they have no capacity in 13 days to do this and manage this with the main electrical company in this country, or they don't want it. Either I'm not who or they don't want, or the two things at the same time. That, of course, is very worrying, Mr. Count. Because here we already lived in this country, what you didn't do when the services associated with customer care were shifted; they let them go. We're also seeing the same issue in the case of Iberdrola. There have been unanimous agreements in this parliament, and you haven't done anything, and now you're going down the curtain on Valdeorras Street. And now we're afraid the same thing happens to this issue. The question is, in fact, between different energy models: that of the Galician Union, which does absolutely nothing, nor in the demands for recruitment of the electricity supply of the Union, nor now in this new expansion of renewables, so that the qualified positions remain in our country, or the model of whom we want it to be done. Therefore, in the light of the shocking failure of the last eleven-twelfth years of industrial policy of the Galician Union, I remind you that you were already an adviser in 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u276	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u277	In view of that failure, what will you do to keep it from happening again on this occasion?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u278	Thank you very much. Replica from the Government. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u279	Madam Presas, the only thing that became quite clear this afternoon is that the Galician Nationalist Block defends the closure of the bridge power station. The only thing that became clear is that the Galician Nationalist Block defends that military ships are not built in Navantia and therefore compromise the future of the naval sector and auxiliary industry in Ferrolterra. [[Murmurs.]] The only thing that became clear is that you're still defending the closure of Ence. And the only thing that became clear is that the workers of Alu Iberian, if it were for you, they wouldn't have any kind of future either. So, Mrs. Presas, a little respect for the workers of Galicia, because, of course, the Nationalist Block of Galicia, simply, as always, defends some workers and others not. And, unfortunately, there is no opposition, nor, above all, a defense of the workers. The Galician Union is next to the twenty-eight workers and workers at the Coruña Operations Centre. Of course, it's next to the six hundred and eighty workers who have Naturgy in our community. And -- as I told you -- it's next to all the workers and workers in Galicia. You, unfortunately, Mrs. Presas, can't say the same thing. So I want to reiterate that message of support to the workers of the Coruña Operations Center, which we had occasion to transfer to them a few days ago. And we will continue to demand a commitment to Naturgy so that we can find a consensus solution and that we can therefore find a solution to this labor conflict. You come here and ask the Government to do illegalities. And that's trying to fool the Greeks. As you always do and always try from your bench, all you pursue is to be opportunistic, but at the expense of lying to the workers, and to come up with solutions that know they don't have any kind of legality. You know there are things an administration can't do. And it's unfortunate that you come here, with your act as a Member, trying to transfer to the workers of Naturgy that this administration can do things that it knows it can't legally do. You and your conscience! In any case, we will continue to defend this labour conflict, in which -- as you well know -- Naturgy has a direct responsibility and, of course, we will continue to use all the instruments within our reach for Naturgy to meet those commitments, and not only the commitments of the workers at the centre of the Crown, but also with the jobs that Naturgy has in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u280	Thank you very much, Vice President. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question by da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the balance sheet of the Emega programme's Galician Union in the last four years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u281	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u282	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, I was surprised this afternoon to hear the Socialist Group's voicer tell you that they were late for action measures to alleviate the economic crisis that are suffering, above all, women in our country, in the field of work, caused by cowardice-19; forgetting that equality has to have a cross-sectional implementation, and not only with departures from the General Secretariat of Equality. Paradoxes of life, right? They told you that the German Government was late, and while Mr. Sánchez was announcing in Congress a grand plan of eleven billion euros, which is now an announcement, because shock plans and aid have to be in the Official Journal -- in this case -- of Galicia and the Official State Gazette, and they have to be approved in the Council of Ministers. So we hope that they will bring this announcement to a council of ministers and that that announcement will actually materialize in aid that reaches the vulnerable sectors and that they are most suffering from the crisis and that they are suffering from this pandemic; social pandemic, health pandemic and economic pandemic. It's just that here in Galicia, the only ones who have met those economic needs, Counselor, was the Government of Galicia. This morning we were talking about the breakdown of gender inequality, and we concluded that it is not a problem that arose with the coward-19, but it is a structural problem. And, in fact, the payroll data are there. In Spain, in 2010, it was 16.2%; in 2018, 14% -- it dropped two points -- and today, 21,4, seven points and a half more payroll in the last two years of the Socialist Government in Madrid. The difference in Galician Union in 2018 was 23% and today is 20.5%; two and a half points less, Counselor. And that's not the result of chance, it's the fruit of work and the measures that the Galician Union is putting in motion. In this sense, we would like to ask you about a very specific program that has your advisor, which is the Emega program, which is to help women entrepreneurs get ahead of a business project, a life project, a project that gives them a future job and with access not only to the labour market, but also to realize and be able to start their life and professional project. In this sense, Counsellor, we would like to ask you what balance does the Galician board of this Emega program do in the last four years, how to help in the four lines: in the Emprede, in Innova, in the Active and ITFI, and also if you can tell us the complementary ones at the Council and in the Dual. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u283	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lourenza Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u284	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Prado, for this question, which I believe completes the intervention in the previous interpellation. Indeed, we -- as we said before -- believe that we must continue with innovative public programmes and policies, but also with public programs and policies on equality, in this case of female entrepreneurship, which are working well. And the Emega program is a very clear example of this. It's an old program, because it's a program since 1996. It's a magnificent program that's giving exceptional results. It has four specific lines -- as you said -- : the Enterprise line, for the promotion of new companies; the Active line, for the reactivation and consolidation of business projects; the Innova line, for the promotion of improvements in women-led companies; and the ITEF line, which is specific for the promotion of technologically-based business initiatives. There are two lines of complementary assistance: one that is the Council, to support the reconciliation of working and family life; and the Dual, which is a tutoring program that offers access to specific information, counselling, business guidance services to facilitate the implementation and consolidation of these business projects promoted by women. It is the last of the performances carried out through the service of Woman Enterprise, in collaboration with the University of Santiago de Compostela. The results you ask, come or refer to, from 2016 to 2020, are talking about eight hundred and seventy new jobs created in these years. Of the eight hundred seventy-two were created thanks to the Enterprise line, but in addition, we have to add the total number of jobs that are maintained, which are pre-existing, but are kept every year thanks to the Active line. Which we're talking about a total of 19 jobs of an indefinite nature in the last five years. All of this, with the amount of support that varies according to the lines: on the Enterprise line goes from 8,000 euros to 20,000 euros; on the Innova line goes from 12,000 euros to 20,000 euros; on the Activ line between 6,000 euros and 15,000 euros, and on the ITF line from 16,000 to 40,000. As I say, the objective of this programme is nothing other than the improvement in the working situation of women, and that is why it is necessary to highlight the recipients of this programme, which are 75 % women who were unemployed before participating in the programme. Of these, 12 % were long-term unemployed and 85 % were women between 25 and 54 years of age who had a higher level of higher education or higher education. We also adapt the program to the impact of the covid, limiting or reducing the requirements so that we can reach more women at this time. In particular, in 2021, we increased to 3.6 million euros -- 108 % more -- the budget of this program. With which, from this data, I stress the commitment of the Autonomic Administration to bring us closer to society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u285	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u286	... thanks to this program.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u287	Thank you very much. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u288	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, thank you and congratulations. Congratulations because the Galician Union is working everywhere right now that we are immersed in a very important economic crisis, which from here to the future is likely to worsen, as we have talked a lot about this matter today. It is true that women -- all agencies say it, and experts and economists -- are the ones most affected by this economic crisis; they are the ones who were in sectors that are most punishing the crisis, both housing and the service sector, and are being, they are suffering, very much unemployment of all kinds, both women and men, but mainly women, who were working with part-time contracts or temporary contracts. They're being badly damaged. And that's why these tips you're talking about in the Emega Programme, with 870 new jobs in this last legislation, or 149 jobs that are kept each year --96 in 2020 -- and 1,019 jobs -- you say -- undefined in the last five years, for us, are very good news. But, as I said earlier, Counselor, you too were able to put in place a rescue plan of more than 161 million in record time, so I was talking about the speed with which the Galician Union acted. And then not only did you attend the inn, there are women working -- and these women also saw themselves benefited -- there are women who have hospitality business, who are small entrepreneurs, self-employed, and also that rescue plan came to all those women. I wanted to ask you, specifically in the Emega Program you just mentioned, how many women have benefited in recent years, how many projects have been funded? And how many jobs were created?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u290	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u291	For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u292	Thank you, President. So I'm going to track down the program's result since 2009, because I think the data is very illustrative. We have invested in Junta since this year 2009, 11.2 million euros in projects led by women. There are 1,600 female jobs created since 2009 and in 2020 the Autonomic Administration has supported 197 women's business initiatives. That is, it's 22.3% more than in 2019, and they were created or maintained in 2020 324 jobs. I mean, we're seeing more and more improvements in female entrepreneurship due to this program and that more and more women are making it possible to start their business projects or consolidate them, in their case, according to the lines It's a program, ultimately, that every year exceeds the previous year. Year after year the number of applications is increased and, as I say, the results are exemplary. Applications received between 2016 and 2020 were 2,897, in particular in the province of Pontevedra and in the province of Coruña. It should be noted -- by bouncing the view back -- that this program, in addition to having continued growth in number of requests, also counts with continued growth in its budget and, therefore, with growth in the number of concessions; that is, since the 81 concessions granted in 2016, we have reached 197 concessions granted in 2020. We finance with this centers of cognitive stimulation and rehabilitation, a speech therapy center, a physiotherapy clinic, an artificial intelligence consulting, a topographic engineering service center and a coworking management center, among many other projects. Also a program of empowerment and female enterprise, which is presented, in addition, as a useful and necessary tool for the conquest by the woman of the positions of command. In that line, since 2018, we are conducting meetings with the beneficiaries of previous editions, and there are already three activities in this direction that have given rise to the creation of the Emega Network. With this data in hand, it is evident the government's wager by the Emega Programme, accompanied, of course, by a very significant one -- as I said -- increase in the budget of this year 2021. We went from 1.7 million in the year before 3.6 in the current exercise; that is, we have more than twice as much investment, the highest endowment in the history of the program, and the most important of all, is that we find ourselves in the face of clear progress in the results, which we see in the empowerment and the creation of female employment in our community. Finally, in this year 2021, the Union reinforces this programme as a clear bet of the present, but also of the future, because we understand that financing these women's business projects is not only beneficial to the women of Greece, but ultimately benefits each and every one of the people in Galicia's society. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u293	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the opinion of the Galician Union regarding the fulfilment of the Greek Plan of Vaccination against Covid-19, in the case of vaccination of two persons related to the DomusVi group
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u294	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u295	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Good afternoon, too, Counselor. In fact, we asked you today from the BNG Parliamentary Group -- we ask again, to some extent -- about this irregular vaccination of the delegated councilman of DomusVi and his brother, by ignoring, skipping, skipping, the vaccination protocol, in an absolutely indecent and immoral exercise, from our point of view. And I say immoral because, in addition to jumping -- I insist -- the vaccination protocols, it is quite outrageous that a lady who is neither a director nor a worker of any senior residence in our country is no longer only vaccinated, but immunized, going ahead of workers, those essential and first-line yess, who are collected as priorities in both the State and the Union vaccination protocol. And in the face of this, what does Joina do? Then shut up, grant, and what is worse, from our point of view, look to the other side. And, of course, one sees this -- and I suppose many of the people we're here and out of this Parliament will agree with us -- and one question comes to mind: who's sending here, who decides who's vaccinating and who's entering Galician, DomusVi or the German Government's vaccination lists? Because this shows -- for the BNG at least, Counselor -- the lack of control the Government has over the vaccination lists. You yourself, in addition, recognized it, if I don't miss my memory; you yourself recognized it at the last plenary session. He said, "If there was any irregularities, you'll have to explain it to the company." I, preparing for this intervention, thought: Any day you blame a gentleman in Cuenca who was going through there or I don't know if the chachachacha, because with you the responsibility is always like that, it's anyone's, whatever the government or the Union is. [[Applause]] Look, in the midst of the biggest health crisis, at the moment we're living -- I'd dare tell almost that a sort of hunger game to get the vaccines -- the truth is that they're putting the benefits and profits of pharmaceuticals ahead of the right to life. In this context, what we see is like the CEO of the largest business group, not only from Galicia, but from the state, says she is vaccinated because she -- she explained it -- because she says she likes to go from residence to residence and she wants to continue doing so. I also want to see my parents vaccinated, and I suppose everyone, but we can't. And not only does Junta ask for explanations, but she gives it for good work and almost applauds with her ears. It's just indecent. That's why we asked him today -- and if you'll excuse me, I'll take a look at the question -- will you follow the Board by covering the irregular vaccination of the CEO of DomusVi?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u296	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u297	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I came to this Parliament to take account of the situation of the pandemic in Galicia and of the progress we have made in the vaccination campaign. As you see, I have no problem in going to this parliamentary headquarters as often as necessary to account for Galicia's current health, which is obviously going through the management of the pandemic, and I will come -- if you consider it to be -- to answer this question as often as necessary. Our only goal, as I have already stated on several occasions, is to manage the vaccines that arrive to us as soon as possible, especially in the most vulnerable groups. They know that we made an important effort to vaccinate as soon as possible all users and workers of the 566 major and disability centres in Galicia. We'll keep working on the line we're doing: moving forward in vaccination groups according to the arrival of vaccines and also according to the kind of thing we have, which, as you also know, varies, and always according to the national vaccination strategy. I would also like to see them move that the Galician Council adjusts to the groups that are determined in the Committee on Public Health and which are then approved in the Interterritorial Council. The groups are then transferred to this Strategy Document, which defines -- as I told them, and I repeat today -- the following: "As set out in the Strategy for Vaccination Against Covid-19 in Spain" -- refer to the Strategy published on December 2, and I will now read the 18th of December -- "in the first stage, in which the number of vaccine doses will be limited, vaccination will be offered in a priority manner to people who are included in the following population groups: 1. Residents and health and health and social workers who work in residences of older persons and care of large dependents." For further details: "The following is a more detailed description of the persons included in each of these population groups: Group 1: Residents and health and socio-health personnel working in senior residences and caring for large dependents; health and social health personnel in senior centres and caring for large dependents. All persons who work in these centres, including those who perform other functions other than health, administrative and cleaning services, are covered by this category." As I've already said, all the people who were vaccinated in residences and who were not users, that is, the workers and the staff who work in them, even if they do not have such direct contact with users, should be vaccinated, because this process is done not by the risk that they themselves become infected, but by the risk of contacting their partners and essentially users. This is the fundamental criterion laid down by the National Vaccination Plan, and which, of course, we have subscribed to. They may continue to insist on this issue, but they have no doubt that the only interest of the Galician Union in all this was to immunize residences and protections. For the same reason they were made up to two weekly cranes in all residences in Galicia. Today we can see how the cases in the residences have come down very remarkably...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u298	Thank you very much, Counselor. In the next turn you can continue, this one is already finished. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u299	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. In fact, it seems to me good to read the groups provided for in the vaccination strategy and the Galician board vaccination plan, but I insist that in those groups there are the administrative staff, there are the directors, it is -- as you indicated -- the cleaning staff, but not the delegated advisers. That person doesn't work, he doesn't even have contact with people who use those centers. What we're seeing here is an exercise -- one more -- and one more example of the convolence that the Government of Greece has with that group, which, I insist, is the majority business group in the management of centres and private squares of senior residences, not only in our country, but in the Spanish state. And I'm sorry, I'm telling you with all honesty, it's not only that she takes advantage of and uses vaccination lists as a coward, but that the Greek Government, which is the highest authority -- you're also the highest political authority in the field of health in our country -- they don't demand the slightest responsibility, nor the slightest explanation when someone uses such an important tool as the list of vaccinations as a guide, and not only in the case of DomuVi's delegated advisor, but in other cases, as we've seen recently, as was the mayor of the People's Boimorator Party, because it's the responsibility of the Government of Galicia to ensure that the vaccine comes in time and shapes the collectives who need it, for reasons of priority, but also for ethical reasons. That was one of the major debates in the whole of the Spanish State and the European Union about who should be the first people to be immune, and it is not a question of whether we live longer or have greater guarantee of survival, but of those who were the most vulnerable and the most at risk groups. That's why it's decided -- and we think it's right -- that the people of the residences and the older people in our country were the first to get vaccinated. But no, within the priority collectives, or the vaccination strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u300	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u301	...not from the Joint Vaccination Plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u302	Your time is up. Thank you very much. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u303	Well, I repeat again what I've already said. It's the government strategy of Spain itself that defines which people have to be vaccinated, and I'd like to emphasize this, because it often accuses the Board not to vaccinate certain groups, and I want to make it clear that we are guided solely by this strategy. I repeat again -- as I said in the past full -- that people who have been vaccinated in residences, if they enter the centers, are well vaccinated, and if they don't enter the centers, they're not well vaccinated. The question I ask you is, do you think we did the first group vaccination well, do you think we did it in time and the results aren't there right now? I gave you some data right now. We have 84 people infected in residences and, fortunately, in the last few days -- who are always unhappy, of course -- do not, fortunately, reside in residences. So, I think it was done properly. And I say again, if a person entered the residence on time or in an ordinary way, he had to get vaccinated; I think it's a tip. Another thing is that you told me that by vaccinating that person, someone had not been vaccinated at home. Not so, ma'am... we have a process for all the people who enter and enter the residence, even those who enter today, anyone who enter the residences after an IT, a new contract, to go automatically. I think we've been especially scrupulous with the approach of Strategy. Every person entering a residence must be vaccinated, because -- I repeat, I insist -- is not vaccinated for protecting that person, is vaccinated for protecting those inside -- I repeat -- and I believe that the results in Galicia will support this Strategy. I'm going to tell you some more data: we're now taking 19,753 residents with a full board and 1,869 with a dose. Besides, of the workers, we took 14,486 double-dose workers and 1,129 with a single dose. You worry about 0.01% of these 37,237 people. We are concerned about all the people who are waiting for the vaccine, because one of the few hopes we have to fight against the pandemic is the vaccine, and of course always accompanied by self-protection, mask, social distance and hand-washed. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u304	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, G. P. of the Galician Socialists, on the consideration of the need to enable a budgetary match for the acquisition of eye-readers and tablets with articulated arm for users with the capacity of communication and prevented movement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u305	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u306	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. Imagine, ladies, that one morning they wake up in their beds and they can't talk, nor can they move any part of their body, except their eyes, that they feel the need to call and ask for help, but they can't. This nightmare exists, ELA exists, and it's called amiotrophic lateral sclerosis. Unfortunately, this nightmare is a reality for 229 people in Galicia -- according to the latest data -- that are diagnosed with ELA, and they end up literally confined in their own body. How can a person communicate if he cannot move or speak? Fortunately, advanced technology and there are eye-readers that, combined with an articulated arm and a tablet, allow these people to communicate through their eye movements, directing their eyes to the letter to the device, which will then transform those letters into words. How can these devices be purchased? Given that they are devices that are not within the reach of anyone, the Government of Spain has amended Annexes 1, 3 and 6 of Royal Decree 1030/2006 in 2019, so the National Health System service portfolio is established for its update, or, what is the same, to allow the corresponding optional to prescribe these eye readers for ELA patients or for other patients with severe impairment of the upper limbs and the impossibility of oral or written communication that impedes communication itself; and, for example, as an optional can make a prescription for a wheelchair, for example. This order entered into force on 1 June 2019, and autonomous communities would have a period of six months to adapt their respective service portfolios to the provisions of that order. In Galicia it's not solved yet, that's the problem. That's why from the Socialist Group we urge, through several battery initiatives, the Government of Greece, that, if it is not possible to immediately resolve the update of the portfolio of services, given that it has already passed more than a year and a half of the entry into force of that order, if it enables a concrete game for the acquisition of these devices, either directly or through the Association of Galician Patients, AGAELA, through the formula they consider best through the Government of Greece. But let's not forget something very important. Many patients choose to do, for example, tracheotomy or not, depending on how these devices are available, or, what is the same, they decide to live on or not. That's why it's fundamental and vital that this fact be resolved immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u307	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u308	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Ortega, as you know, unfortunately, ELA is a disease that, at the moment, has no healing treatment, which has a very limited life expectancy, as you commented, with great disabling capacity and with very important consequences for the life of the patient and his family who generate the needs of permanent and changing care, as well as emotional and psychological problems. As a result, the impact on families and on the environment of sick people, both in staff and in social and economic terms, also alters their routine dynamics. Last week Francisco Luzón died, a symbol of the struggle against the ELA; a person who, far from surrendering to his illness, created a foundation that works to find the cure for that terrible illness. We want to take advantage to move our condolences to your family and close relatives, and also to recognize the effort and work that you have done to make this disease visible. Also, of course, that same memory goes to the relatives and relatives of all the deceased of the ELA in Galicia. Galicia has been one of the pioneer communities in confronting this pathology and it was one of the first communities to sign, more than three years ago, an agreement with the Luzón Foundation, precisely, one of the foundations that is working most in the research of this disease. We have signed this agreement with the aim of speeding up socio-health responses according to the needs of the sick, encouraging single-act consultations at all health centres and simplifying administrative procedures. In order to meet this commitment, Galicia was the first autonomous community that approved over two years ago an integrated care process of the ELA in order to improve the quality of life of people suffering from it and to accompany them in this process, and also their families, through a model of care that becomes a paradigm in the quality of care they receive. In the elaboration of the PAI participated in the association of patients ELA, AGAELA, which you commented on, since the role of associations is fundamental to moving us closer knowledge, in this case. about pathology. This quick route -- as I say -- allows patients to consult the Neurology Service in less than 15 days. Maximum response times were established, the AA Card was also assisted, and the healthcare system was organized around the patient with ALA, and single-act consultations were established so that they could have greater quality and care advice. In fact, in 2019, the Ministry of Health and Consumption approved the inclusion of eye readers for patients with neuromotor disorders in the Common Service portfolio of the National Health System, and Galicia was pioneer throughout Spain, since in October 2019 we incorporated eye readers into the Neurology services of our hospitals, with the objective of ensuring the principle of autonomy necessary for each person through an improvement in communication. This way we try to break people's isolation with ELA in health centers. The improvement in communication is fundamental in a disease with the characteristics of the ELA, and new technologies are significantly improving this paragraph. They are very important and necessary tools for daily communication, but in addition, in a hospital, they allow the patient to make decisions that affect his vital process. Before its implementation in the hospitals of the Galego Health Service, of course, we conducted training sessions for the staff of neurology and rehabilitation services in order to acquire knowledge about the functioning of this ocular reader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u309	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Ortega Otero has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u310	Thank you very much, Counselor. I appreciate your constructive tone, but it is true that you do not really answer the questions we bring here today to the House. Counselor, will you solve this matter immediately, yes or no? Otherwise, will they move on to the plan b that we propose, to run a direct game for eye readers, articulated arm and tablet to ELA patients or with similar limitations, yes or no? Why haven't they done it so far? How long do you think you can stand a person with no movement capacity and no talking and no communication through all this and no access to such a device? We understand that this is a sensitive issue and that all the groups represented in this House will agree with this proposal, we do not doubt it, but without initiative and political agility on the part of the Government of Greece will not be possible to make it effective in time. [[Applause]] A few days ago, activism -- as I was saying -- by the fight against the ELA lost one more referee, Francisco Luzón. Others, like Carlos Matallanas, are still in the fight today. We pay tribute and acknowledgement to all the people affected and their families, warriors and warriors against a very severe illness that still has no cure. That's why every day it counts for these people who remain -- literally -- confined in their own body. Let's not let another day pass; one day counts. Let's make it possible, Counselor. I hope you answer the specific question and tell us whether it will be solved or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u311	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u312	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Ortega, of course, will not find me in a position in front of her on this subject; in any case, next to the patients with ELA. At this point, and recognizing that processing was not as fast as we would like, as a result of the pandemic -- that we all know the effects it has caused in administrative processes and organizational processes -- we are collecting the information needed to establish the number of patients who would need the device in each health area; not the total number of patients we have with ELA -- that you had a fairly approximate figure -- but those who would need the device in each area; in addition to the prescription criteria and the most correct procedure for their acquisition. Last October 2020 -- a few months ago -- the Committee on Benefits, Insurance and Financing sent us the procedure for dispensation of eye readers. He really sent us a model of another autonomous community, which, of course, we thank him. Once we have received, we have adapted this procedure to Galicia and, at this point, we are now developing our own procedure to count on the dispensation instruction of the eye readers. This instruction, which will ensure the prescription of an eye reader for people who need it and meet, in addition, the criteria set by the Ministry of Health Benefits Commission, will be available in an imminent manner. If that's the answer you want to hear, the answer is that it will be available in an imminent manner. The next step will be to send it to all health areas to go to the purchase of eye readers, which will, of course, take with you the corresponding training for patients and their families. From the Health Council and the Galego Health Service, we know that research into this disease is fundamental, and we also know that, at the moment, there is no treatment for it, but there is a way to give these patients and their families a voice and quality of life. That's our goal, and we will continue to work for and for all our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u313	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by D. Martín Seco García and Da María del Carmen Rodríguez da Costa, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the profile provided by the Rural Media Councillory for the coverage of a management square of the Rural Development Agency
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u314	To put the question, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u315	Thank you, President. Counsellor, we witnessed the scandalous process of summoning a management square in the Galician Rural Development Agency, published on December 23rd last year. The square in question is that of Agader's sub-director for relations with rural development groups. A place which, far from being called by the criteria used in previous calls, where extensive baggage was required at training and professional level, in this case the basis for the call was completely demanding, simple and adaptable to any profile, including within such curious questions as to assess with up to four points titrations different from those required in the call; with a maximum of six points attending courses with a minimum duration of 20 hours, without requiring them to be approved or linked to the management sector to perform; and, in terms of experience, included the possibility of receiving up to 15 points for providing experience in the field of teaching, something unusual. It was curious that they had also changed the criterion of other calls for similar positions, excluding accreditation of knowledge of the Greek language. And it's also shocking that they asked for a report from the Directorate-General for Public Service so that this place could be covered by a person who did not have the status of a public servant, even though a priori does not seem to justify the nature of exceptionality and was resolved with a favorable report. Visualizing the contents of this call and the procedure of the Agency, we hoped that this square would be covered by someone who had already adjudiced the post before the call, and, following the resolution of the bases of the process, we could observe that this rumor was confirmed with a square assigned to the finger and that it was granted to the MP of the People's Party and spokesman in the Council of the ship of Valdeorras by this party, Moses White Paradelo, who will begin to occupy a square that should be for someone with broad knowledge of the sector and of credible solvency and experience in it, even though it is a plaza of trust. There's a hair to the citizenry and a lethal weapon for the rural environment to turn Agader into a chiringuit for the placement of friends. Counsellor, just when the process is proceeding for the approval of the Land Recovery Act, of vital importance to our rural community, which will only be of use if it is accompanied by budget, means and personnel allocation, will be vital the role of the Gaga Rural Development Agency, which, after this vicious process, will have a citizen in a management post without any kind of experience in the management of subsidies, public expenditure or administrative processing and without any accredited knowledge of rural development, and all because he is a prominent militant of the People's Party, successor of you yourself as a member of the 7th Commission of this Parliament in the past legislation and for staying outside this house because he is not elected a Member in the Galician elections. For all this, we asked him what profile the Middle Rural Council was looking for for at that square.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot begin this speech in any other way by lamenting -- and deeply -- the question put by Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I think, in addition, that this will not be of your sympathy, because we have just heard your argument and seen the despicable spill of criticism of your justification. Look, when they say that after this vicious process, Agader will have a citizen in a management post without any kind of experience in the management of subsidies, public spending or administrative processing and no knowledge accredited in rural development, hey!, I say to him: isn't this also applicable to a chemical engineer, a rural environment spokesman, in a parliamentary group of this House?, or to a professor of math advisor to the rural environment?, or to an inspector of Rural Environment Advisor? [[Applause]] Let's get down to criticism! But, look, I consider baseless criticisms of all those who in a selection process -- and now I'm going to talk about the selection process -- to dismiss, the way you did it, Mr. Seco, the teaching, because criticizing that teaching for a leadership post is a sense of history and that even goes against the opposition's own interests. Do you also think it would not be a good manager for the Rural Council, for example, one of the rural speakers of this House who is a professor? Do you consider that you were bad directors of the many of the Bipartite who were also teachers? A long list that I wouldn't even give myself time to name one by one, but I had the chance to be looking for them! What are we talking about, then? Do all rural council managers have to be agronomous engineers? That, by the way, Doctor of Agronoma Engineering at the University of Santiago de Compostela is the current director general of Agader. I hope this doesn't criticize you either. But, no doubt, it's curious that teaching, which is probably the most difficult profession -- explaining, teaching, transmitting -- is not a valid qualification for you to become a good executive. But, in addition, I consider in this case that, being a good executive, he is overwhelmed by something more than being a teacher, which to me is already a lot. Mr Seco, there has been a public proceeding in the light of the Resolution of 21 December 2021 to select this Agader Director; a procedure to which all persons who so desired have chosen to choose to do so, meeting the requirements set out in it. That resolution has chosen a number of candidates, and by the way, none, ladies and gentlemen, has made any claim or has filed a complaint from this procedure. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u318	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Seco García has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u319	Thank you, President. It's a shame to hear it, sir, a real shame. The difference is that the selective process we have that any one of us here are the polls, and in this case it's not. Let's see how it's learned! [[Applause]] Counsellor, I still remember, as he told us, at a meeting to discuss the projects of his counsellor's office in this legislation and to enhance this implementation of the Land Recovery Act, which was of vital importance to the functioning of the Galician Rural Development Agency, and to equip it to use the instruments that will be created with this law. I remember how he talked to us about those technical profiles he was remembering now and the Ines Health card to tell us about the importance of the Agency in developing this law and its bet in this area. And now we meet with this, which is irrefutable, Mr. González Vázquez. Is this the technical setup you want for Agader? We all know that the implementation of the new Recovery Act will only work as if it is at your disposal to make it possible for the measures to be implemented and also for material and personal means to be able to develop it, both at the central level and in the territory itself. The first one we see from this bill presentation and they want to turn Agader into a chiringuit by Mr. Baltar, Mr. González Vázquez. [[Applause]] I understand that, by geographical proximity, if you can take these behaviors -- we see today with the appointment of the second vice-president of the Ourenses Deputy -- but you shouldn't be subjecting such an important organism to our territory and their advice to this scandal, and much less when many citizens are experiencing it in a crisis situation like the one generated by the coronary virus pandemic. No one understands how they can put someone in a management position without the right profile, Counselor, and less by fixing -- and I say so, by arranging -- a selective process to end it up with a party partner, former colleague of this Parliament and political leader of your party in the province. Yesterday you asked for a transaction. I ask you today, through a proposal, to paralyze this process and not to name this gentleman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. Mr. González Vázquez speaks for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u321	Mr. Seco, as far as you're concerned, I want to move you that you should reflect, after the interventions in relation to the Forest Plan and in relation to the formulation of this question, which you have shed on the way you are taking your presence in Parliament. He is at risk of becoming irrelevant. Look, do you know -- save me the time -- how many public procedures of urgency and rigour like what brings us here today have taken place? [[Interruptions.]] I'll tell you. [[Murmurs.]] This process has not demanded anyone during the Bipartite. The requirement of a public selection procedure for executive positions to which persons who do not have the official status -- and this is the case -- was established by the People's Party in the Budget Act of 2014. We're here today because you've decided that the procedure with more guarantees -- the competition procedure, with several candidates for this post -- is not valid. They complain about rigorous practices based on professionalism, when you've ruled when you didn't even have one, and when you used to pick the finger of the executive staff you've considered, that's right; but now that being a teacher isn't valid to you. Today, what brings us here, ladies and gentlemen, is just a sample -- which we're continually seeing -- of strategic inconsistencies in criticizing this opposition -- well, now looking for everything you've been looking for in the reply. We can go and see all the curricula here -- I say myself too -- and go and rule out all the posts and professionals that, you think, could not be rural media personnel. But, I repeat, being a teacher is probably the most complicated and necessary. Look, to make this criticism when, precisely, this process has had a public, open and accessible procedure for all and all, it shows, at least, how you are trying to make a baseless, unconsistent opposition by trying to pull out everything that moves. It's more, you talked about "driving," which is a verb to take into account. I say, if you're so against this procedure, why didn't you present any resources to the selection bases? Why? I explain why: because the whole selection process was done under strict legality and complying with the regulations. When things are well done, Your Honor, criticism exceeds. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-24-DSPG026.u322	Thank you very much, Counselor. After finishing the agenda questions, we finish the session. Thank you very much.
