ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No absences or delegations of vote have been justified. We're already on the agenda. Yes, Mr. Aranguena, what do you want the word for? Excuse me, give a voice to Mr. Arunguena's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u2	We would like to thank the Members of the PSdEG and those of the BNG about eight minutes, and since this is reproduced in each session, we would like to thank the People's Parliamentary Group for a little more punctuality, for us and for the House itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u3	...of the legislative text. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February, and approving the consolidated text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality, to ensure the real equality of women and men in university and research For the presentation of this bill, Mrs Rodil has the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Today, since the BNG, we have tabled this bill, with the aim of introducing into the Greek legislation correction mechanisms that guarantee real equality between women and men in the scientific and research field. A bill that has many hands behind it and that is in good measure the result of the effort, the enormous effort made by many researchers in this country. A few months ago, at a meeting with the Galician Research Network -- Research -- we were transferred -- and we're told that to all groups and also to the Galician Board -- a document in which they looked at situations of discrimination that women researchers especially have to face when they decide to be mothers. In this report they propose objective formulas that ensure that maternity and paternity permits do not pose an obstacle or the end of their professional career either. For them, but not for anyone in the future either. Because the fact is that, today, in 2021, and despite the enormous progress in equality that has taken place in recent decades in our country, there are women who have to choose between being mothers or scientists. And others who see it as the decision to have children and exercise their right to reconcile are a trap to go on with their professional careers. In Galicia there have been complaints over recent years about gender discrimination, in the scientific and research field, especially complaints about the ill-treatment of people who compete in public calls for research, development and innovation, such as post-Door aid from Galician Union. They are aids and calls that are penalizing researchers who enjoy maternity leave during their careers. In 2020 three post-doctoral investigators filed a complaint before the people’s valet in which they recorded discrimination during the evaluation process of their research performance, in which they were penalized for enjoying during the period evaluated for maternity leave. In its conclusions, the people's valet urged the Galician Union to take the necessary measures and legal instruments to match the investigator's staff who have maternity or paternity permits with the rest of their colleagues and colleagues, thus ensuring continuity, not only of their research projects, but also the continuity of their training programs, and, above all, ensuring that people who compete with these calls enjoy total equality of opportunity both in the evaluation processes, when they match them, as well as in the conditions of their contracts. In February of this year, they know all their lordships that researcher Maria de la Fuente, director of the Nanooncology Unit of the Santiago Institute of Health Research, IRIS, managed to get justice to give her reason and acknowledged that she suffered indirect discrimination on grounds of gender in the process of evaluating her professional career, by not including herself in the alleged call for interruptions or corrective measures that would allow this researcher to compete -- group boss, in addition, in her research team -- in conditions of equality, like those people who, as happened in the case of Maria de la Fuente, during the period evaluated, were interrupted their career because they were mothers. The judgment that gave reason to this Welsh researcher, issued by the Madrid Dispute Tribunal, because his is a state summons linked to the Carlos III Institute, feels an important precedent because he demands and urges all research bodies, both state and autonomous, to carry out assessments of scientific traxectories in a competitive competition regime, introducing corrective measures in calls for research contracts. More recently, the High Court of Justice of the Valencian Community also partially annulled the call for grants aimed at promoting scientific research for not again including measures that had made equality between women and men effective. I make this context analysis because one of the reasons why the Galician Nationalist Block makes today in this parliament and this plenary session this bill is because we cannot allow the judiciary to replace the legislative power. It is the parliaments who must promote the legal changes necessary to guarantee the rights of the whole society of our country, and not the women who have to fight the right to care for judges, the right to reconcile and the right not to be punished for exercising, precisely, their rights to conciliation. Despite the fact that the Greek legislation collects the principles of equality between women and men and of non-discrimination on the basis of gender, the fact is that in our country discrimination still persists in all areas of social life, cultural life, working life, economic life and also in the scientific, academic and researcher field. Recently, a study published by the prestigious journal Nature quantified nearly 50% the percentage of women leaving the full-time research career after the birth of their first daughter or son. The proportion of women decreases alarmingly as they ascend into the research career, is what is known as "glass ceiling", but also "the dripping tubage": passing a balanced percentage in the early stages of training, in the first stage of the research career, the predoctoral, until gradually disappearing that balanced presence of women in the highest layers of that research career. If it is almost half, on the first steps of that research career, only 26% of the faculty and university investigators, and only 21% of the chairmen in public universities, of the state as a whole, but also of Galicia. The latest published data, which everyone knows, published, I insist, by the Galician Board, are, in the case of the Greek universities, 55% of the female enrolled student, 55% of the students are women, but then, when we see what the percentage or proportion of women in the public universities in our country is, they only represent two out of ten. This gap, I insist, is due to the survival of glass ceilings and also to the obstacles that women find throughout their professional careers, to, especially, reconcile that professional and family life, that go slowly, those traps, those obstacles, those barriers... they gradually drive out the women from the scientific career. Far from reducing this inequality in recent years, we have seen precisely how the pandemic caused by the coward-19 has worsened and worsened that situation of discrimination. So they collect studies published by prestigious international scientific journals, but it is also very interesting, and very especially, a report published at the end of last year by the University of Vigo. A report entitled Gender and Scientific Research that addresses the reality and the situation of women among their staff, especially in the part that corresponds to teaching and research staff. Telling the University of Vigo, and we would like to have data on the whole of the Greek university system, but, as we have already pointed out in this chamber on several occasions, the Galician Union does not comply with what makes legislation in this country and, specifically, with the obligations it has and which correspond to the Women's and Science Unit, which is to disseminate and visualize the situation of women in the scientific field. So we only have the report, which was the exercise of will that did the University of Vigo to make the conditions under which women researchers are found within that university. He told the University of Vigo: Before the alarming state, women represented, as primary caregivers in their family units, 21.3%. We're talking about women who are part of the college's own staff, specifically teaching staff and researcher. Only that proportion reaches 5% in the case of men. When the state of alarm is established, says the University of Vigo, the burden of women taking exclusive care of their daughters and their children was over 50%, a proportion falling below 17% in the case of men. More than 50% in their case, less than 17% in men's case. The same is true, for example, of how difficult it was to reconcile remote work, teleworking, telework, with the reconciliation of working and personal life. More than 60 per cent of respondents say that it was very difficult for them to reconcile their personal lives with the continuity of their work obligations: in the case of women, 17.4 per cent; in the case of men, 7.1 per cent; in the case of men, more than ten points below the case of men. And you warn, alert the University of Vigo, of the consequences that this will have on women's research career in the medium and long term, because it reminds the University of Vigo that the evaluations of the research career already by itself before the covid-19 are framed within a system of merits that penalises maternity. That's one of the reasons why BNG is pushing this bill today, because of need, we believe from this organization, that we must all, collectively, as a society, to walk towards a greater, first, social co-responsibility, for greater co-responsibility between women and men, in the care of dependent people, of children, but also the obligation that we all have to be removed from the barriers and discriminations of gender that prevent women from competing on equal terms, as we try to do with the measures we incorporate in the articulate of this bill. A proposal which aims, therefore, to introduce objective, objective and transparent measures regulating assessments, merit assessment processes, public research calls for both the universities in Greece, public research bodies and other entities of the Galician research, development and innovation system, with a view to avoiding situations of discrimination and violation of the principles of equal treatment and opportunity. Even so, we seek to incorporate the gender perspective into the whole research system in our country, especially in universities -- it must be remembered that more than 70% of the scientific production, the production of knowledge in our country, is linked to the public university -- through measures that are already today, in one part, included in the Greek legislation itself since 2004, and incorporating other ones as well. The creation of chairs on gender issues, both in colleges, higher technical schools or university schools, supporting women's participation in college bodies, in decision-making, to break down that glass roof to ensure that these spaces are balanced by gender, but also incorporate positive action measures and promotion of the use of different times and work organization that facilitate reconciliation, but above all, they favor the social co-responsibility of what we were talking about a moment ago. Measures also referred, as we talked about just a few weeks ago in this same plenary session, to enhance the scientific and research vocation among women, especially in those areas of knowledge where there is a smaller presence of women than men, and also with the objective of visibility, to highlight the enormous value of women's scientific production for social development, cultural development and economic development in this country. Because gender discrimination makes Galicia lose a huge talent and knowledge, penalizing women for being mothers throughout their research careers means actually expelling these women, precisely from their professional careers, and with them we lose their knowledge, their ability and their enormous talent. And that's something no country, no country, no Galicia, you can't afford either. First, by a democratic issue, by a question of rights and to ensure that anyone, regardless of their status, of their sex, of their race, of their religion or any other question linked to their identity, can assume a share in the development of their professional career, but also -- and if they want -- we can't afford to expel these women from the research career for the interests of the country itself, we can't rule out half of the knowledge, half of the talent and, ultimately, half of Galicia. With that objective of giving visibility, but also of remembering and honoring the Welsh investigators who brought us here, we wanted to name this law as a woman. It could be many, but we decided to remember one of the brightest researchers that Galicia had given, a pioneer in her field, the first scientific woman to go up to an oceanographic ship, not in Galicia, not in the state, but in the whole of the planet, but also one of the first women to say, "That's enough, so far here." [[Applause]] Ángeles Alvariño, which was how we decided to join this bill, the bill Ángeles Alvariño, was born in Serantes, Ferrol, in 1916. On March 3, 1977 -- today 44 years ago -- he sent a letter to that trade minister, Juanita Morris, with a direct copy to President Carter, in which he denounced the weights in the promotion and exclusion of women in the upper categories of the Southwest Fisheries Science Center, which was the institution, the laboratory she worked in. And he demanded that measures be taken to put an end to such discrimination on the basis of gender. Years later, in an interview, Ángeles Alvarino said: "I wasn't the one who bowed down and quietly accepted the situation." Neither she, nor Mary de la Fuente, nor so many other women who have the right to carry on with their professional careers by exercising their rights without hindrance, without glass ceilings, without sticky floors and without obstacles, also without having to fight the right of the administration to guarantee them. That is the fundamental objective of this bill, which is certainly improved, but which seems to us, from the BNG, a good starting point to change once and for all this situation. This is not a magic formula that will end centuries of discrimination on the grounds of gender, but we are aware of that, but if we believe that it is an important and necessary step forward so that Galicia is a slightly more just country, a little more equitable and more democratic for women, in a very specific and as important area for the future of this country as research is. There are a lot of people who need it -- and with this end, president -- this law, bodies and entities here in Galicia, but also the whole state, which today are looking carefully at what we are going to do in this Parliament. Because we can also open the way for other territories and other cameras to move forward as well. That's why we wait, and we say it honestly and honestly, that the other groups in the House support the consideration of this bill, that they do it theirs, and that they work with us on it. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u6	Thank you, President. Good day to all and all. Today, again, sadly, we are debating again in this House about inequality, again inequality. We are again debating the need to work on new actions to promote effective equality in the participation of men and women, in this case in the scientific and research career. The data -- and here some of them have already been exposed -- are really, really, teimodos; but on this issue they are, besides teimodos, worrying. Nothing, nothing, or very little, we've made progress in this matter: the proportion of women in the whole of the investigator staff remains below 40%, according to official data. By the way, we also agree with that data, the most recent data we can get, consult, either from the CSIC or from the various ministries, or even from the offices or gender units of universities, or from some of the Greek scientific bodies, but we miss -- as we said here last week -- a report with data on Galicia's own and global joints in order to be able to work better on this issue. As I said, these official data show that the presence of women in government offices of universities and public research agencies is still very low. This data also shows that the crystal ceiling is maintained in the research career: we're barely 20 percent of women in college chairs, and we're only 25 percent of the professor of research. We still find gender gaps in access to aid, human resources and R & D+i projects and research contracts. And we know something about this, because also, as the previous honourable Member pointed out, we have been bringing to Parliament all these months -- I think every month -- the struggle of those researchers who want to solve the doubts that the public summons of the Galician Union still present. Because they still present them, they present them. Of course, this year, steps have been taken, but they have been shy and these inequalities are not yet corrected. The data I just gave are state data, state data, but what's going on in Galicia, right? So in Galicia, the reality is that we have very similar data, it's really very similar data. We're talking about a 17.6-percentual gender gap, which is going to get bigger, these percentage points, as we climb up the escalafon. The funny thing about this is that it's us, the women, the ones we read most about each year, in a percentage, I think, 54% against the rest, who are men. But then we didn't go up the way we should. What's wrong? Although we have data similar to the rest of the state, it is also true that we know other data that speak of the percentage of gender balance down these two points in these years, because we are now at 38 percent, now going to be just below the state average. Also, with regard to the business sector, no community yet, it is true, no autonomous community has achieved the balance of gender, but Galicia is, together with Balearics, the one that has only 26% of women among its research staff in this sector. Anyway, given the data from various documents, because there are reports from state agencies, what we think best we can use to discuss the bill we are dealing with today -- in addition, it's not the only reference document for us, because we know that, for example, entities such as Research, which has already been mentioned here, it also takes it as a reference -- it's the study on the situation of new researchers developed by the Women's and Science Unit of the Ministry of Science. It's a document for the year 2020-2021, about a month or two ago, which focuses on younger women. And why do you focus on younger women? Because, far from being smaller now the problem of inequality for them, it's incredibly bigger, it's getting bigger. And we don't say so, because we also talk to reference researchers, senior researchers in this country, and they say that, in fact, young women are finding many more distractions and differences, and we're not responding to them. But there is something more important that points to this report, and that for us, for this group, for the Socialist Group, is the cause of the inequality we are talking about or at least one of the causes. It points to the existence of masculinized power networks, still very rooted in the academic and scientific community. Of course, we're talking about -- it's been said here too -- glass ceiling, sticky floor, imposter syndrome, scissor effect, dripping pipe, a no-end of concepts, new concepts, which are associated, at the end, always, with the situation of inequality that they face, to which we constantly confront women, in this case those who want to make a scientific career. Even assuming that if they're making changes, the reality is that these changes are very slow, because, despite the fact that women's participation in the scientific career is increasing, their chances of promotion are still different and worse than those of their boys. This is a reality, as is also the fact that if we start timidly accessing positions of responsibility, but it works the division of work by sex, which assigns us, in those same positions of responsibility, to us, the responsibility of administrative management, institutional representation, even of treatment with students, these kind, beautiful things, but men devote themselves to these positions of responsibility in the scientific field to strategic management, research, the relationship with companies. Of course, if we join together that we, the women, are more devoted to the responsibilities of care and home, that is, less time of dedication to our professional career, which, of course, also less mobility possibilities, we have the perfect cocktail, we have the perfect cocktail. So, in the face of all this situation that I just exposed, that we have just exposed, joined by the previous one, which preceded me, it is -- we think so too -- a legislative reform. Only by legislating will we ensure compliance with measures that guarantee real equality, the fair and necessary participation of women in the research field, because achieving full equality in science is above all a question of social justice, a question of social justice. [[Applause]] It wasn't, look, it wasn't very few meetings and conversations that this group, the Socialist Group, maintained with associations of researchers and researchers from Galicia, and in all of them it always appeared as a constant concern: women want to be in the governing bodies of scientific entities; women want to lead research groups, we want them not to penalize our maternity, and, look! we also want them not to penalize everything that involves that maternity process. Recently, the Research Association, as has already been said here, recorded in this Parliament a manifesto, which, of course, has a lot of support, has more than a thousand support from reference figures, highlighted in the field of science in this country, in the rest of the state, and also international and scientific bodies, asking for what we are discussing today: a legislative framework that guarantees equal opportunities in the field of research and science. And as it is well said in that document, and which here too pointed out the spokesperson of the BNG, of course!, it is the righteousness which, in some ways, is correcting the situation of discrimination suffered by women in the spirit of science: we have recently known the case of Mary of the Source. We have to break with that, it can't be the justice of those women, it's the laws that must set limits and collect corrective measures of existing inequalities. This is why it is time to start working effectively on concrete and effective measures to ensure that such equality is respected. And why not, besides, that they penalize the breach. That is why we have already announced here our support -- as it could not be otherwise -- to this proposal for law, and our collaboration, our full collaboration to, after the whole process of processing, achieve the best text on several issues: to ensure equal opportunities at all levels of the research career; to break down with gender stereotypes, because we need to overthrow from very old very, very early, these stereotypes that link science with masculinity; to eradicate sexual harassment at work, to eradicate sexual harassment at work; to make the important role of women in science, of our women, of Welsh women in science too; to ensure measures of co-responsibility and compliance; to ensure procedures that do not penalize maternity and to achieve a balanced presence of women in decision-making bodies. And all, all, absolutely all the measures are necessary so that the next 11th of February -- which they know is the International Day of Women and Girls in Science -- stop being those days in which we take our hands to the head and think that there goes, there was another year lost more. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The last plenary session, 12 days ago, was the People's Party, which brought about an initiative to promote Galician Union in order to evaluate the second Women's and Science programme and, after that evaluation, to make a third program. After the debate on the initiative we have incorporated the contributions of the Socialist parliamentary groups and the Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, and we have unanimously reached an agreement that is still in force today. I, Mrs. Rodil, am not going to do what the voices of the PSOE and the BNG did in that plenum to underestimate and underestimate the PP proposal, because it came from the PP. We agree with an initiative come from whoever it is, or we do not agree from who it comes from. Therefore, all proposals that improve situations, prevent discrimination or solve problems for us are always welcome, come from the parliamentary group coming. And today you bring a proposal that we agree on at the bottom. It is important for us to defend women's rights in the academic and research fields. And you present a bill, with three articles, to amend article 20 of Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February, and introduce corrective and objective mechanisms in the public summons of R+D+i, to avoid discrimination and/or penalties in the case of maternity, paternity, and/or temporary permits for pregnancy, care for dependents or breastfeeding. And we consider that there are issues in your bill that are already regulated in the law, in the same decree of 2015 and a proposal that you bring here today and that is identical to one that you brought in 2018 and that you defended Mrs. Presas; then they didn't call her Angeles Alvarino, it was just a bill, but the content is exactly the same. And since then we said that the university has autonomy and we have to respect it. And respecting that autonomy of the university, Mrs. Rodil, the Union did not stand still, and the Union advanced, and the Union collaborated with universities on the promotion and dissemination of equality in the Greek university system, and in the 2021 calls for pre-doctoral and post-doctoral aid, a number of improvements were introduced with regard to previous calls, directed precisely to avoiding gender discrimination. For the first time this year, objective criteria, novices and differentiations were introduced in this area, which do not exist in any research call from any other autonomous community, nor in the Spanish State. Now, any investigator can choose whether to present himself to this year's or the next 2022, depending on your personal or private situation, depending on your interest. So far you could only introduce yourself to one of the two, and whenever you had obtained a positive assessment, which was mandatory. And this requirement has also been removed. Therefore, Junta is applying for the first time a flexibility that doubles the choice of any researcher or researcher, and lowers the requirements for access to a post-doctoral training contract. Galicia is the only autonomous community in the state that for the first time has installed an additional score to compensate candidates who are at work, and this has been done to break up with discrimination when accessing these scholarships. These calls are made in a consensual manner with the research departments of the universities, which have very positively valued these measures, and you, in the bill we are debating today, add to some matter that is already or well included in these proposals, in these new calls, or are included in the current legislation, or some issues in which Galicia has no competence. But if they propose some matter which we consider appropriate to strengthen through legislation. First, the need to incorporate the gender perspective into all public policies. Well, Mrs. Rodil, that's already a global strategy since Beijing in 1995, passing through the 1997 Amsterdam Treaty. In the state domain, we have an effective equality law for women and men of 2007, in the case of Greek we have the 2015 Legislative Decree, which comes from two laws of 2007 and 2005. They all reiterate the transversality of the principle of equal treatment between women and men. In point A, on the creation of Chairs, in point B, on support for study and research projects, are provided for in the present Article 20. It will agree with me that it is a formulation similar to the one provided for in the bill proposed by the BNG today. In point C, the training of all staff in gender perspective and prevention of women's violence is also set out in Article 21 of the 2015 Legislative Decree, equal training of women. As regards point 10, establishing positive action measures to support women's work in the field of research, promoting their participation and leadership in research groups, and point E, on the visibility of women's approaches to science and technology, these two issues are part of the objectives and measures included in Galicia's Seventh Strategic Plan. All of this is regulated. But, look!, not because it's regulated, we understand that it's enough, because it's regulated doesn't mean it's met. You spoke here today about the case of Maria de la Fuente. In the case of Maria de la Fuente, who was a researcher who suffered indirect discrimination in 2018, when he was already in force under the Law of 2007, the Spanish Constitution, the Greek legislation, and where the prohibition of direct or indirect discrimination was already established, and he suffered discrimination. And why does the judge give you the reason? Just because there was a previous regulation. Has the regulation changed? Yes, but not because we have more laws, we're going to avoid such discrimination. Unfortunately, this case, the case of Maria de la Fuente, has shown us that, unfortunately, sometimes we have to go to the judges to claim the rights. In that debate, Mrs. Presas said, "Leisure equality is not real equality." I agree, indeed: not by legalizing anymore we will achieve real equality, but if it is true that it helps, and that is why we agree that, despite the fact that we have a lot of legislation on equality and we have to develop it and we have to do it, there is no question that some issues that are not specifically in a legislation should be put to it. I don't agree with you, Mrs. Rodil, that there are women who choose between being mothers or scientists. No, Mary of the Source didn't choose between being a mother and a scientist, she was a mother of science and saw her fundamental rights violated, she resorted to it, and there was a sentence that gave her reason. So I think we have to support those women who may suffer such discrimination. I welcome them to defend the rights of pregnant women. I remember my first debate in this House in 2009, when I defended the popular legislative initiative to support pregnant women, and then you said that this was a step back in feminism, that this was a retrograde issue, specifically saying, "Protecting the rights of pregnant women is to reproduce the stereotypes of maternity as a problem of women, of women as defenseless beings who need protection." You, at the BNG, thought that protection was a step back in the struggle of feminism. I'm glad you come here today to talk about the rights of pregnant women, to protect them and to defend them, and to introduce them through legislation. [[Applause]] Remember when they said "if a pregnant woman is fired, the solution is readmitila."? Well, for the same case of the payroll, if a woman earns a lower wage for the same job as a man, for what is to be done is to raise her salary. And if a pregnant woman suffers from discrimination, she must be corrected. It's not that easy, Mrs. Rodil, unfortunately it's not that easy or so simple. So, welcome, and in no case is a step back in the struggle of feminism, and we will continue to move forward and we will continue to take steps. All the instruments that serve to increase the number of women in the highest positions of academic career and researcher we will support them. We have an obligation to put all the means to prevent obstacles for women to promote in their careers and, in this case, the debate we have today -- academic and researcher. So even though the proposal we are debating today, as I have explained, much of its content is already collected in the vigil legislation, we consider that there are some issues that can be an advance to collect it in the law, and therefore we, as you have agreed with us in the past plenary an initiative in this area, we will work together, and we will support the initiation of the process of this bill, Mrs. Rodil, because I believe that consensus is the most solid piece we have in the defence of women's rights, because with consensus it is much harder than anyone to question any progress in the matter of equality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Prado del Río. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Group author of the non-law proposal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u10	Thank you, President. Look, we're starting well, aren't we? [[Laughter]] I would also like to thank you and personalize you in the honourable Members who have positioned the various groups, Mrs Díaz and Mrs Prado, for thanking both the Socialist Party and the People's Party who vote favourably for the process, at the beginning of the process of handling this bill, synthetically, to understand us, as well as Angeles Alvarino, which we have formulated today since the BNG. I appreciate it by fully agreeing with what Mrs. Prado said now when she's done. I believe that what they do for rights to survive, and that in this country, in addition, if we have made a great deal of progress with the law of 2007, for example, the prevention and comprehensive treatment of male violence, or the same equality law of 2004, and they are maintained today, although it is true that it has also cost to recover some of the issues that have been lost in recent years, was precisely to maintain that position of consensus in which progress in the area of women's equal rights was an undeniable issue for this whole House. I want to keep it. Some questions concerning what was said in the speech, in this case the last one Mrs Prado did. We do not derogate from Article 20. In fact -- I was also saying in my first intervention -- that this article 20 was starting from what I've already collected from the legislation, the Equality Law of Galicia originally, because it seemed to us that what was needed was to expand it, it was to incorporate other issues into that article 20 and not to lower it, not to throw it down, but, starting from what I've already collected from the approved legislation 17 years ago, to continue working. But one question, which basically motivates Article 20a, is those objective and objective corrective measures that we want and we believe it is important to incorporate into the Greek legislation to end these barriers, those obstacles and that discrimination. We can, with all the good will, with all the consensus of the world, fight and work for women to become part of the scientific career, which also incorporate those fields of knowledge where they have a smaller representation today, the case of STEM areas of knowledge, which has to do with the scientific-tech field. We can do it with the greatest of the wills and the best of the possible consensus, but if we are not able to overcome, remove and eradicate those barriers that exist throughout the research career, and in particular in professions such as research and science, which are constantly being subjected -- because this must be -- to an evaluation even permanent externally, if we cannot remove and remove those barriers, it is equally important that we put in the most early stages, because we will not prevent that tubing, with these sticky floors, these women are leaving and leaving that research career and continue to reproduce and survive in time the situations that we described both Mrs Díaz, Mrs Prado as I myself in the first intervention, that of being half, in the enrolled student, in the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the research career that they read at the predotoral stage, from time to time they are going to be less and they do not even a third, for example, at the top stages of that research career, but the research, but the research career, the as they are the staff. That's the will that BNG drives this bill, to introduce those corrective mechanisms that allow us to remove those barriers that are currently pervading, even in the calls that emerge from the Galician Union. Because it's not true that we're jumping into university autonomy. The pre-doctoral calls, post-doctoral calls are designed by the Galician Union, are contracts linked to the Galician Union, it is the Union that sets out the criteria governing these orders and also the criteria governing the evaluation of these competitive competition procedures. It is therefore a responsibility not to universities but to the whole of the Greek Government, because they also bind, for example, the Galaga Research Agency, Again, also in contracts that depend on it. So it doesn't violate the principle of university autonomy, but what goes directly to that regulation that must involve the Union, as well as other institutions and other public bodies. I keep that desire for consensus. I also want to let it appear here today. I hope the spirit of the law is maintained. I want to think that the spirit of the law will be maintained. You know that now, when you start the processing process, you have the majority, and that's irrefutable and undeniable. We hope that we will maintain the inspiring principle and rector that motivated this proposal of law Ángeles Alvarino. We are confident that this will be the case, and I think we can get something very important forward for this country, but I think we can also place Galician as a pioneer and vanguard in the fight for equality between women and men in the scientific and research field. I'm sure today a lot of people inside and outside this country rejoice, just like we did from BNG, because we're going to take a step forward as giant and I hope, at least, so be it. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Applause]] At the end of the debate on this proposal, we proceeded to the vote on it. Voting of taking into consideration the proposal for a law Voting on the proposal for a Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, amending Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February, is therefore approved the recast text of the legislative provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia on equality in order to ensure the real equality of women and men in university and research. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal for a law, which will continue its parliamentary process, is therefore taken into consideration unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u12	We continue with point 2 of the agenda; in this case, appearances. The opinion of Mrs. advisor to Infrastructure and Mobility, on his own request, to report the general forecasts and lines of action of his department and actions regarding the evolution of the covid-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u13	In order to formulate this appearance, the advisor to Infrastructure and Mobility, Ms. Ethel Maria Vázquez Mourelle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I compare today with my own request to explain the general lines of action of this council in this legislation. A legislation that -- is known to all -- is developed from minute 1 in an extraordinary context that compels us to make extraordinary efforts as a result of the pandemic we are living; a complex moment already for a year that compels us to take exceptional measures. And the truth is that public administrations are more necessary than ever in this context, and those who have public responsibilities must be able to meet the circumstances to ensure the well-being of citizens. Health protection has always been a preferred place in the Infrastructure Council; it has been, and will continue to be a preferred place. And so the Infrastructure Council knows it's contributing to strengthening public health with essential infrastructures that we're carrying out. To alleviate as far as our possibilities are concerned also economic prejudices to this global crisis. Our priority is the fight against the pandemic, and we face it courageously and decisively. At the Infrastructure Council, we are convinced that we must make this enormous challenge an opportunity to continue to progress, to continue progressing in sustainable growth, in green growth. An enormous work that we are immersed in and that we must have the opportunity, of course, and take advantage of this opportunity of the European Union's mobilised investments to make Galicia a more competitive Galicia. We have to offer, and it is our duty to offer citizens, infrastructures and services that guarantee this right to mobility effectively and also in the most sustainable way possible. And our referent, of course, which is the MAS concept, that mobility as service, mobility for a public service adapted to the fight against climate change, but also adapted to the new habits that have imposed on us by the pandemic. New habits such as teleworking or electronic commerce, therefore, are a new way of moving to which we must also adapt because our habits are true that they have already changed. In this great goal, this Galaga Mobility Agency is now drafting for more modern, more sustainable, more efficient infrastructures. And here we also bet on public transport in Galicia with the advantages of New People's card. In sustainable mobility, of course, you will also share that high-speed arrival in Galicia, which we're still waiting for even though it's in 2021. Also relevant is the Galician Roadmap, new pedestrian and cyclist paths, for mobility not only healthy but also safe; that insurance heading is also important for Galician Union. And the logistics strategy, the Welsh mobility strategy is, of course, coordinated with Galicia's logistics strategy, where we will also define those infrastructures needed to reduce our peripheral position and enhance our position on the Atlantic facade in an important way. The same criteria we follow in water management, to be able to advance in greener sanitation and supply systems, increasing resilience to drought, lower energy costs, more efficient and efficient water resource management, also more innovative -- and there is the Innovation Project, which is pioneer -- and strengthening collaboration with local entities. It's the local administrations who have the powers in water management, sanitation and supply, and the collaboration of the Union is still there, even though some people want to deny it. All the lines of action -- as I said -- of the Council are geared to green growth and sustainable growth in our territory, and we address it not only from services but also from infrastructures and making the most of European funding. And we want to continue to make use of the following European funds, which we hope will come to us because Galicia wants to remain what it is, a reference in the management of the European Community funds. So a social perspective on infrastructure, on services, and with that social perspective I inform you that we will extend to all of Galicia next May this New People's card. We'll universalize the New People's card to all of Galicia so that young people under the age of 21, live where they live, can use this card, so next May. And also at the end of the year we want to create, finalize, and launch the Galician transport area so that the TMG metropolitan card can also be used throughout Galicia; so that the Greeks, living where they live, use these metropolitan cards and new people throughout Galicia. We will also extend discounts in the peas competition of the Galician Union. Autonomic roads are the cheapest roads in Spain, but we will increase these bonuses by extending them to numerous families. Also lines of help to those most affected by the pandemic. And also economic reactivation, essential, and there's a basic piar that's public work. Extending to all of Galicia the bonuses that have been applied to public transport with the Galician transport area is one of the main objectives we have this year, a priority axis of action. And, as I said, the universalization of TMG with the same advantages, the same opportunities, the same possibilities for all the Greeks, living where they live; and thus strengthening public transport. A plan that began to run entirely in Galicia on December 23rd, which guarantees the future of transport started in 2017 and which is a huge scale: 127 contracts, 3,100 new transport lines, 300,000 services a month, more than 50,000 stops. The easy thing was not to do anything, but we had the courage to face it and implement it. The design was with a process of an open dialogue, it is in constant review. And we're promptly informing citizenship through the Bus.gal website, which is constantly updating. It incorporates important news such as cheaper tariffs, integrated tariff scheme, homogeneity, egalitarianity, and reorganization and improvements. Finally, they are improvements in frequencies, schedules, rates and efficiency, and also adapted to the needs of the Greeks. Suppose, above all, a radical improvement in our rural, those two modes of transport, from shared bus and transport to demand that certain political parties hoped as a defeat and venture as a defeat, for instead of failure was a success. Effective implementation that is already under way and we want to continue to work to extend all those advantages that are already enjoyed by five transport areas. And in Galicia's transport area we've already moved forward and informed Fegamp, also at the Galician Transport Council. And our goal -- as I said -- is to finish at the end of this same year that entire Galician transport area to extend those advantages and bonuses. Today we are taking an important step because the Official Journal of Galicia today collects the approval of the Galician transport area. For it's already an important step today in this extension of the universalization of the advantages of the Underground Card and New People's Card throughout Galicia. We hope to comply with the city councils' agreements and process the city councils' agreements to extend these benefits. These are important advantages. Important is the decriminalization of transhipments, major bonuses and savings that can be complemented by a wide range and bonus bar. And I can also inform you and announce that we are working so that next April 1 we will apply more discounts to recurrent users, taking those discounts by recurrence beyond the transport areas. Because we want to continue to implement this social transport plan, because it is a real social plan. To give you an idea of the magnitude, we're talking about that before the pandemic was 5.1 million trips a year, because we're going to boost at least 70 percent of all those trips, 17.5 million of those enhanced trips with the initiatives I'm explaining to you today. An extremely important economic effort, is EUR 110 million per year, of which EUR 81 million are direct approaches to the Galician Union. And as I said, in January 2020 we had the New People's card for 21 years in the transport areas, in May we will extend it to all of Galicia; and therefore our goal is to double the benefits of the New People's card; and, therefore, we will also double those approaches. So you're close to economics with young people and the transport plan that exceeds EUR 85 million a year. We also work for safe public transport, with security protocols on the very tight shared bus. So much more -- and protocols approved by the health authorities -- than the train and the plane, which we would like them to have similar protocols. But we in public transport implement protocols to ensure security as a result of the pandemic. So we work for a sustainable mobility from the service point of view, from the price point of view we do -- I just reported it -- but also running infrastructures. And there's a fundamental part of it is intermodal stations, intermodality; axile exchange, safe, comfortable of different modes of transport. We've been able to do it since the Galician Union, but we have to be, of course, the different coordinated administrations working together. In Coruña, Santiago, Ourense and Vigo we started at the same time. We're moving at the same pace. And the fact is that the time of intermodality opens in Galicia by the action of the Galician Union, despite the inaction of the Spanish Government. It is the Council of Galicia that opens the time of intermodality in our autonomous community. The bus station in Ourense is running, it's not finished, but it's already running, it allows in 30 seconds the exchange of transport mode between the bus and the train, full and guaranteed intermodality. The Santiago bus station is finished, also by the effort of the Galician board, the gateway that connects both terminals is about to end this month as well. And we expect the Town Hall of Santiago to hire the necessary services for its launch. The truth is, the commitments of the Government of Spain to these two stations are neither seen nor expected. The three-and-a-half million passenger clause in Santiago, years waiting for him to retire. At Ourense bus station, something similar. At the Vigo Intermodal Station, running, we guarantee the most difficult, which is the complete viability of all that is being done, that big shopping center Vialia and that large intermodal station thanks to the Galician Junta, that we gave the urban shelter. The Pontevedra intermodal station is also running, in months to end. And in Coruña what awaits, despair. In Coruña we continue to await this announcement of the year 2019 of the Government delegate that the works of the railway terminal of the Coruña intermodal were auctioned. We expect these procedures as soon as possible, we hope to sign this agreement, the Council of the Crown and the Council of Galicia, we are waiting for the Government of Spain to be able to sign that agreement necessary to be able to move forward, as we have done at the other intermodal stations, with agreements with allocation of assigned responsibilities, and therefore we continue waiting for that rail reform announced as imminent in 2019, and we are now in 2021. In Lugo we also work to move forward, on the part that corresponds to the Galician board, in the design of the bus station. I think Adif's stance seems rather roused to not want to reach agreements, they know there are discrepancies to sign that convention of distribution of essential responsibilities that we managed to sign at the other intermodal stations that are running. And on the part of Junta is not a lack of interest, we proposed three alternatives for the financing of that parking lot, three alternatives, and we are not told which one takes it in particular. But, in any case, we continue to work intensively for those intermodal stations: Ourense, Santiago, Pontevedra, Vigo, finished this year, part of the board, so we are touched on. And advance also in the Coruña, Lugo and Ferrol. The implication of the Galician Union, I think, is evident, there are the results, they are in the territory and we are waiting and we would like the same level of involvement by the Central Government. In intermodality, of course, it's also a key role for the freight corridor, the Atlantic corridor, and commodities are also important. We have a fruitful alliance between Galicia, Asturias and Castile-Leon to improve our logistics capacity. I am an opportunity for European funds and we want the same involvement of the Government of Spain as with the Mediterranean corridor. We don't ask anymore, but, of course, I don't think we can deal with less. We hope that if we can confirm at the next meetings that appointment of the committed commissioner, because our duty, although some do not understand it, our duty as the Greek Government is to defend the legitimate interests of the Greeks, to defend the interests of the Greeks in the face of the Government of Spain. If we hadn't done it, we'd be failing our responsibility. I firmly believe in loyal collaboration, but my obligation -- to insist again -- is to defend Galicia's legitimate interests. I wouldn't do that duty if I resigned without jokingly accepting the gross non-compliances we have seen recently from the Government of Spain. The high speed was to arrive at Lugo, still the contract without bidding, he was to arrive at Lugo in 2021, Minister Abalos said. He's in the hemerothecs. Now in the year 2021 he's still being tendered. A pen removes variants that reduced important walking times. I hope it will come true, rectify and bet on the arrival of the high speed to Lugo. The extension of high speed with Portugal is also a priority for the interests of Galicia, especially seeing that Portugal clearly bets on the high speed connection Lisbon-Porto-Vigo. And, of course, we have to continue working together on railway matters not only with AVE and Galicia, but with railway services, which they really leave much to wish for. The interruption of rail traffic, for example, between Vigo and Ourense, this railway line with incidences following incidences between Vigo and Ourense, concerns us. And also the incidences on the narrow-track train. And there's nothing to say about Coruña-Ferrol, because we see little progress on the railway line The Coruña-Ferrol. There we see, I think, different attitudes: the impulse we're giving from the Unity of Galicia and what other administrations are doing. I insist that the duty of the Galician Council -- duty and our responsibilities -- is to be self-exercising with our competences, but also demanding with others. We do not ask others what we do not ask ourselves, but our duty is to defend the legitimate interests of Galicia in the face of other administrations. Airport transport can't be forgotten. I think it takes coordination from the Government of Spain, who has the responsibilities, but, above all, who prepares the airport system for the arrival of the AVE. It's essential. We'd like to see a proposal about this planning, coordination and preparation of the airport system for the arrival of the AVE, because I'm sure it will affect you. In order to contribute to promoting economic dynamisation, we also have the Galician Logistics Strategy in writing, but in writing together with three autonomous communities. We are Galicia, Castela-León and Asturias coordinated, carrying out, developing and drafting this Logistics Strategy to see if we can provide it to that Atlantic Corridor Director Plan we don't know. But we, as you know, are not banners, we are proposals, work, calculations and, therefore, our proposal is a logistics strategy to see if we can provide that Atlantic Corridor Director Plan we don't know. Ladies and gentlemen, in the German Government we bet -- I just reported it -- for a sustainable, modern, safe mobility, but I also said social mobility. I do not want to miss the opportunity that we have done since 2009, in the middle of the economic crisis: we have increased the high-performance pathways, without a single fee, in the middle of the economic crisis, 220 new kilometres of high-performance routes without a single fee to reverse the territory, to strengthen competitiveness. And right now we have three large projects, three important projects: the Ártabra route, which we expect the Government of Spain to authorize this connection with the AP-9; the Nadela-Sarria highway, in full execution, and also already working to bid the construction project in the following phases; the high-performance highway Tui-A Guard, also running. And we continue to advance in other high-performance pathways such as VAC North Coast, Costa da Morte, Santiago-A Estrada, Brión-Noia. The term advance is clear in road infrastructures of the Galician Union, because we are moving forward. And, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I say, I think we're talking about social mobility, with progress on the part of the Galician Union, and that we would like to see progress also on infrastructure in the competences of other administrations. Because it is notorious, of course, the situation in which the province of Lugo is in terms of infrastructure, the powers of other administrations: highway A-54 Santiago-Lugo. We've seen this announcement that the Secretary-General for Production Infrastructures has given us two million a month. People who don't know about public work -- that there's a lot of people who don't have to know about it or know about it -- could look like a lot, but we just have to do calculations. We're going to 2026. I think it's unacceptable and it's almost like saying it's paralyzed. The A-56 highway: no progress; the Navy A-74 highway: we see no administrative progress; Vigo-O Porriño: I think neither; Alfonso Molina's; I think patience has the neighbours of the Coruña and, therefore, I think we would like more involvement. We do not say that the work is done by blow, but it is going to advance in these infrastructures. And the truth is, on the Santiago-Lugo highway, that ratio that has been given to us, of course, we can't admit it in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, our infrastructure policy stands out not only what we do but how we do it, without imposing new fees. We remember that the highways AG-55 and AG-57 of the Galician Union are the ones that have the lowest in Spain, but we either lower them or freeze them. We've been implementing bonuses to recurrent users, we've been pioneers implementing those bonuses. Now we have increased the number of bonus families; we also have night travel bonuses and, as I said, we want to apply these bonuses to families this summer. And it won't match what's going on with AP-9. The highways of the Galician Union or freeze or go down, the AP-9 is the one that goes up from all over Spain, the one that comes up from all over Spain. Who supported the Government in Madrid, of course, was the Galego Nationalist Block, if I don't miss my memory, which I don't think will fail right now. So it's an accomplice who supports the Government of Pedro Sánchez in Madrid with this rise: the only thing we have today are not bonuses at AP-9, I'm a climb on January 1st, which rises most in Spain, in addition to a generalized context in which almost everyone goes down. [[Applause]] They all come down here at AP-9... look, in Galicia we have the sad honour that AP-9 is rising, because thanks also to its support for that signature that could be a blank folio, I don't know, between Adriana Lastra and Mrs. Ana Pontón. However, we continue, we make proposals, we are a government of proposals because we work and we make a proposal with 50 million euros, with a solid, rigorous proposal, with calculations. It's easier to put on a billboard than to make calculations, but we do calculations, because we work and make proposals. Because with the proposals something can be done, and we managed to get the minister to understand and respond to our bonus proposals because they were worked out, backed up and backed up by work. I'm going to send you the study, Mr Bará, I'm going to send you the study: 100% bonuses on return trips for frequent users, plus 25% bonuses on the way to frequent users at 24 hours a day. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let the study pass, don't worry! 60% bonuses to freight carriers, also numerous families, bonuses, as well as night trips. And we also want to move forward in the transfer of AP-9, which is accompanied by the necessary resources. The pandemic has left a multitude of problems, continues to leave dramas, a flood of human dramas, and we have to continue to support people in this very complicated context, and that is why we are supporting the sectors, sectors that are affected, in which we have competence, in transport sectors, goods, travelers, taxi drivers... and we continue with this ongoing dialogue with the sectors that depend on this board. And that's why last year we made advances, advances to that state fund, which wasn't enough, of the vault, of 28 million euros, so that I could follow public transport by walking and running in Galicia and by the workers of the sector. We had to make those advances because we supported our sectors. We call for the same effort, of course, for this year 2021, by reducing demand -- the fall is up to 80% of bus users -- and therefore it's a sector -- and for the workers in the sector -- that we have to continue supporting. In the field of training, we also continue to support the transport sector. In aid programs, it's also relevant what we're doing with the taxi sector. The taxi sector was able to access the support aid to self-employed and microenterprises with a rescue plan, more than EUR 1 million. We also have help to renew the fleet -- important -- that we renew this year as well. And we also bet on the hostel with which we can contribute from this council, which is the exemption from water canon to sectors, and also from the discharge coefficient, to the affected sectors of the workshop. It's an exemption that's already being applied. He said at first that economic reactivation was important, and that is why the promotion of public works is important. Fundamental, paramount, public work for this economic reactivation, and also to ensure our future. We are with intense activity in public work, mainly in what gives us the greatest satisfaction, that of being able to contribute to health infrastructures, and being able to do what we know best to do, which is public work, and helping our admired colleagues at the Health Council. Also public work in road infrastructures and also public work in hydraulic works. Health infrastructure: Gran Montecelo, we adjudicate in record time. In May, the works will begin. Record time, less than three months -- Mr Bará, you have your turn -- in less than three months we've tried. In May the works will begin. The new CHUAC, in which we work intensively: more than 400 million euros armored in the Budget Law to continue moving forward in that new hospital, which is already a fully executed phase. We will complete the reform of the Naval Hospital and the architect Marcide. Health centres: Narón; the CIS of Lugo; in Ourense; in Vigo; in Lalin, which we have just tried. And also not to forget the little one, because it's also important, as are the accesses, the improvement of the accesses and the firms to the hospital centers. Road safety is also a key factor in logistics and road safety. And before sinking into road safety I would, of course, want to transfer our condolences for the accident last Friday, and we feel our responsibility is not to spare any effort, not to spare work or collaboration between administrations to continue working for the improvement of road safety. I think there's nothing more important than people's lives, and that's why road safety is fundamental, and we will certainly spare no effort. The wager for road safety has a role in the council's action: we've come to bid for the road safety plan. In road safety, it is essential for us to maintain roads, and there are ordinary conservation contracts to pay attention to users 24 hours a day the 365 days of the year; there are firm reinforcement plans; winter viability plans; the control plans for clouds and walls, bridges and places of passage, because we are pioneering in terms of conservation. Also, accident-concentration truces. We have a plan of truces of accident concentration, also to eliminate the truces of accident concentration on the roads of Junta de Galicia, which, by the way, was an agreement in this House that eliminated the truces of accident concentration, but on the roads of Junta de Galicia and on the roads of the Government of Spain. We are fulfilling, we would also like to see from the Government of Spain that acted to eliminate the truces of concentration of accidents from their network, because they are in Galicia and our duty is to defend Galician interests, just like the firm ones. We have, at the Galician Junta, our plan of continuous and annual firm reinforcements, and we would like to see sensitivity in certain firm reinforcements that we see on national roads, especially at N-120, with the closure of the Folgoso tunnel of the Courel, which cares about us in an important way. We're still working on Santiago's Paths, in addition to the traffic jams of accident concentration. In the Ways of Santiago, more than 10.5 million euros here, in Compostela, works that are in sight of everyone and that will end before summer. Galician road map, fundamental, we started it in 2016, were 170 kilometers already executed, there are, in the territory, executed, there are the results; with intensity we work in the first phase, we have the second stage in writing and we are already working in that third phase in Lower Mine, The County, Ten, Sarria, Val de Lemos, Barbaza and Noia. And we also bet on getting those Next Generation funds with proposals, believing what is necessary and justified and in certain works that we consider fundamental to our rural as the Portomouro-Santa Comba road, road Sarria-Becerreá, road The Gudigna-A Street, Celanova-Fronteira portuguese or Folgoso-Seoane in Folgoso do Coruel. In high-performance pathways, we're also advancing for road safety, in addition to the hospital infrastructure, but we're also performing public equipment: the Amizar building is running by this board; also the Iferi, which we've just adjudicated; also the works in Tea will carry out this council; and the City of San Caetano are also pushing it from this board. So an important weight in public work, with the overall objective of encouraging the economy with infrastructure, as well as hydraulic infrastructure. Rescue, clearance and supply, we're helping the municipalities by making a titanic effort, helping the municipalities in their own powers of rescue and clearance that they have grants -- I repeat, but to make it clear -- by state basic law. In addition to the 28 EDARs we assume by helping the municipalities exercise their own competences, it is the healing of the Greek rivers, as a matter of priority. And we're working on the rescue of Pontevedra: the debugger, the emissary, the Lameira River in Marín, we're going to solve the spill in Cocheras, the municipal competition of the Pontevedra Town Hall; in the Arousa River, in Viveiro, in Burela, in Foz. The sanitation plan in Sada, in Betanzos, in Pontedeme. In total, we are mobilizing 180 million euros in the Welsh rivers between execution and processing. What does our competition look like? But it's not. What does it look like about...? But it's not, you don't get confused, you take advantage of all this and that we're helping and supporting the municipalities, in different political colors, do the math. And we're supporting the municipalities in their competences: 180 million euros running or processing in the German rivers, more than the three deputies with the Greek coast together. We would like to have a... you rule, the Socialist Party with the BNG, in the deputies, we would like a bit of sensitivity, involvement, not only in the German rivers, in the deputies that have more competence than the Galician Union, especially in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, because their institutional collaboration is required; we have considered it, of course, basic. As far as water is concerned, there are many initiatives that we have: the plan of salvation in writing, with great objectives, and, above all, with that global goal that we have to deepen on the sustainability and green growth in supply, in efficient water management and also in drought, we have the plan of drought in the Galicia-cost demarcation. We have two new programs to help the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, and tomorrow, Wednesday, there's an order of help in the CEO to help the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, for minor works of sanitation or supplies. Modernization, too, for networks, with other tools for network renewal, for network loss control. Municipal drought emergency plans, aid orders coming out of Galicia, where many municipalities benefited. I'd also like to see a similar commitment in another conca organism, because Galician waters -- let's not forget -- it's basically a conca organism, like the Confederation. For the Confederation was also well advised to make a similar effort, I say no more, but at least similar in the matter of water management, in which it is its basin, which is mine-sil, essentially. In drought episodes we're also working to anticipate, flood risk, we have this flood risk plan. There are nine high-risk flood zones that you all know, I'm not going to report it, but the most surprising is that of the Lagares River in Vigo, where we want to invest 6.8 million euros, and we're surprised that the Vigo Town Hall prefers confrontation and leaving the Vigo neighbors almost sold instead of signing an agreement with the Galician Union to invest 6.8 million euros, to avoid cofinancing. If Carballo could, if Carballo could sign that agreement with the Galician Union, because I don't understand how the Vigo Town Hall can't, because our goal is to anticipate flooding. And also with predictive models, we're working on greater efficiency and making a qualitative leap for predictive flood risk. We have this Merlin program in collaboration with the University of Coruña. But, basically, we'll go on. I move here that we will continue to bet on that technical and financial support to the municipalities in their own powers of sanitation and purification. We've seen him do it, we'll continue to do it, and also with the user communities, for which we've seen him get help as well. In the end, the user communities are some 60,000 people who supply themselves. So for us these water betrayers are important. We are also hiring services from self-sustainment plans to six municipalities, to replicate that successful pilot experience in Agondo. I'm going to finish, because I'm spreading a lot. We have the Galicia-Costa hydrological plan to get the public consultation. I hope they'll bring us their approach. The conservation of rivers is fundamental in the 15,000 kilometres of rivers of Galicia-Costa and we have greatly increased the conservation, the investment for the conservation of rivers. We're going to judge him in nothing. The spill control plan will continue to sink to solve and reduce pollution, as we have seen, as well as innovation with the Innovations project. And, of course, exploitation. The exploitation of sanitation systems, supply, I always say it is important. We can't do works if we don't exploit them well, it's also very important for conservation and maintenance, and I look forward to collaboration to finalize and articulate this system of support for the municipalities, in the management of the maintenance and maintenance of hydraulic systems. Finally, Galician waters know that they are collaborating and following the evolution of the cod in the wastewater. I think it's an important project that we're doing in collaboration with the health authorities, with the aim of anticipating us and of being an early warning, because the latest is what we're participating in the waters of Galicia, the collectors and debuggers of Santiago. I'm done since I've stretched out enough. We work for a better mobility, for better infrastructure, for better water management and asking ourselves for agility, and our duty is also to ask for agility to others, not to ask the others without first asking ourselves the same. So we demand of others the same thing that we demand of ourselves. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u15	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u16	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. From the PSdeG we also want to transfer our condolences to the families of the victims of the traffic accident this weekend, as well as to all the families of the different traffic accidents. The counselor said and touched several times: we're not banners. Are you sure, Counsellor, that you are now not a banner, that you hold onto these banners, that you mobilize and also that you are afraid of certain platforms that have been fighting for infrastructures in our autonomous community, are you sure that they are not now the ones that take the banners? [[Applause]] You also said: well, it seems that others don't have to know about public works. You yourself, by your position as advisor and by your profession, but the fact is that you also ask for that urgent and immediate reopening of the Folgoso tunnel without taking into account the security measures, you also say a lot about your knowledge of public works and infrastructure. By putting some data on the table about versions you gave. Because it's his version, because it's not the reality of the facts. You used to talk about intermodals and say they're not even expected from other public administrations in the Coruña. So I put a data on it: the Government of Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, placed in the general budgets of the state 18.6 million euros for the intermodal of the Crown; the Union of Galicia, in the general budgets of the autonomous community, 4.5 million euros. Therefore, one-quarter to Galician Union with respect to the Government of Spain. The intermodal of Lugo... is that, let's go!, if it's Adif that you're wishing to come to an agreement! What you're doing is just putting sticks on the wheels and, in addition, they discriminate -- in Junta and Galicia -- in Lugo with respect to other provinces, because you know that the Galician Union funds certain works in other provinces that are not funded in the province of Lugo. You were talking about water management, and you said literally, we're making a titanic effort. And I repeated that the competitions were from local authorities. And he said, even though some try to torpedo these managements, the Galician Union is there. And I wanted to know that your board's budget... how many EDARs are going to run in this exercise in Galicia? And if you can tell me here today too, if some EDARs, for example Burela or Foz's, are not at risk of losing these European funds because of their bad temper and the repeated delay of the Galician Union. Look, you said you were here to defend Galician legitimate interests. But it doesn't seem to be the right way. Because, look, last March 10 had a meeting between the president of the board and the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, in which they dealt with matters of great importance for Galicia on infrastructure, such as the bonus rates on AP-9, the southern exit of Vigo or the AVE, for example. In this later press round, the president of the board thanked the central government's budgetary commitment to pay the peas reductions in AP-9, as well as ratifying the minister's own commitment that the real decree that will give rise to these bonuses will be ready in the first half of this year. It seemed from that time that the relations between the different administrations were normalized, but nothing further from reality, because the day after that was the adviser himself and other positions of the People's Party put back the People's Party T-shirt, they put their party's interests before the interests of the Greeks and Greeks and they started spreading lies and torpedoing the investments and works announced and budgeted by the Central Government, and so did you today in your intervention. To give an example: in my province, Lugo's PP and its own advisor have dedicated themselves to torpedoing the already planned investments that will execute and materialize the central government. They opposed the modernization and electrification of the railway that unites the capital of the province of Lugo with Ourense and the Meseta. They're opposed to those 546 million of us who will benefit in time and in comfort to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Look, they're opposed to moving forward after, for years, despite having a German government president and a Welsh minister, they've abandoned the Greek infrastructure. I know they're ashamed of the fact or not done by the governments of Mariano Rajoy, but the only reality is that for the first time ads and studies become reality with this central government. [[Applause]] Look, Counselor, you've spent a lot of time talking against the central government, despite my request, I said, that there should be coordination, that institutional loyalty. He's spent a lot of time criticizing the central government. But, look, let's talk about high-performance routes, from the north coast, non-compliance after non-compliance, a promise that still remains in the air, and at this rate the Ferrolterra-Ortega-The Navy will arrive in 2135, and this parliamentary group does not say so, some media close to the People's Party. High-performance vehicle Tui-A Garda: every year it is announced, every year it goes to budgets, and at the end nothing is done. You were talking about the unfoldment of the Lugo-Sarria-Monforte corridor, regrettable delay. Every year there were splits in the budgets and nothing was done, it's true, now the works have started, yes, but with these budgets of the Board of Galicia we see that this unfolding will not be total, it won't be from Lugo to Monforte, we'll do the little thing. We're talking about access to the dry port of Monforte: nothing has been done regardless of whether each year the same match is seen in the budgets. Let's talk about the Paradai plan. Let's talk about the East round. Let's talk about why Junta has been putting patches for years instead of acting to give solutions on two roads like 313 Marín-Moaña, or 308 Pontevedra-Sanxenxo, two roads that are among the most sinister in all of Spain. How many autonomic roads and how many are left unattended! Short or void maintenance of self-competitive roads. Let's talk, let's talk about it. The improvement of accessibility and security at PO-551. We're talking about the concentration of accidents in Domaio and Tirán, the security of AC-305 in Boiro. Look, Counselor, the truth is, after the deception that we were subjected to with Plan Move, what do you want me to tell you, what credibility can you have anything you announce here today? From what they announced as the great star initiative of the Government of Galicia in the field of infrastructure, we see the result, we see how it is. The president of the Galician Union himself recognized here, in parliamentary headquarters, that delay of the Move Plan, but that is, in the purest style of the People's Party, by blaming them for their inheritances. You came here to talk about the arrival of the AVE to Lugo, but, look, I'm sorry, Counsellor, the only one who promised the arrival of the AVE to Lugo was Mr. Feijóo and all of Lugo we remember, at that campaign of the 2012 autonomous elections that compromised the arrival of the AVE to Lugo with own funds from the Junta de Galicia. That's a delay!: words of Nuñez Feijóo of the year 2009. You were also talking about the benefits of AP-9's peas. But, look, if we're talking about these fines of the AP-9 peasage, it's because they're reflected in the state's general budgets. And by the way, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress voted against these budgets. You've been talking about moving forward in the AP-9 transfer, but if you were -- the People's Party -- those who blocked the Congress Bureau from being able to talk and be able to debate about this transfer of competence! Look, the fee bonuses at AP-9 are a reality, they're going to be a reality and they're contemplated in the general government budgets, they're not only ads, they're going to have 55 million this year, which means two-thirds of all the bonuses from all over Spain, and what you want -- and in what you're also working on the PSdeG -- is that these bonuses are not only for the year 2021, but they're going up to 2048, which, by the way, that date, until 2048, is the date on which this AP-9 People's Party itself extended. With regard to AVE to Galicia, the security tests -- as the minister also said -- of the last course develop positively, and they keep forecasting to put them in service this year. So, of course, there is commitment on the part, but commitments made on the part of the central government. You know there are over 225 million funds, only European funds, that could be increased. What bothers you is that they are, and I don't understand why, to benefit everyone and all the Greeks; that in two and a half years they put into service 30 kilometers of new highways; and the budget has increased in conservation, maintenance and security up to 150 million euros. You, the Galician Union -- and I share it with you there -- must also work with the central government so that these European funds of recovery, transformation and resilience, of course, arrive in Galicia. There you have a lot of work to do, meetings have already been held with the ministry itself. You know that this aid focused on low-emission areas will be dealt with at the Sectoral Conference with autonomous communities, which will have a breakdown with objective criteria and that, in addition, the funds that touch companies will be managed and transferred directly by the autonomous community itself. So there's a lot of work left to do, there's funds, we're taking advantage of these European funds to, of course, also improve our infrastructure. You were also talking about expanding the rates of self-competitive roads. I also want to ask you a question: if you've planned to liberalize the beaches at AG-55 The Carball Crow, and at AG-57 The Puxeiros-Val Minor. This group, this parliamentary group, has registered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u18	...has taken initiatives in this sense, and we would also like to know what the intention of the Galician Union is. Therefore, Counselor, leave the People's Party T-shirt and put on everyone's T-shirt and every gales. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u20	Counselor, when you started the intervention talking about extraordinary situation, exceptional measures, for a moment I thought we were going to come here to announce something new, and I have to say that your appearance was a dja vu, because you came here to tell us exactly the same as you told us in the budget appearance. None, absolutely nothing new. All repetitive, all resounding and all routine, didn't tell anything new. Normally, these appearances... I don't know if you've got any surprises waiting for the second shift afterwards, but for now, more than the same thing, that's what you came here to tell us. Because you're with the autopilot, they're running in a slow camera, and they're ruling far behind reality, which overrules them. And they have to go there trying to get out of the way of questions that should have been planned for a long time. Because there's no forecast, no planning and no ambition in his counseling and his government. And the problem they have is that they spend too much energy on doing opposition and little energy on proposing, you came here to give an example of that. He spent most of his time getting in touch with others and talking little about his proposals for his projects, and less new things. And, of course, he's already telling us about European funds when he has more than 1.4 billion euros without investing in this budget period, he's a trick! 1,400 million euros! [[Applause]] Now they have an extension, but they think you're going to be joined by the extension of this period, the new budget period 2021-2027, plus the extraordinary investment funds of the Next Generation. They won't give up, they won't be done with the ordinary, the more with the extraordinary, Counselor. Then, zero chipsman, as always, of skills. You here have not told us of an absolutely central issue for infrastructures and mobility as it is to assume from Galicia all the competences to manage these matters from here on. He made a mention there, of the refion, of the question of AP-9, without much confidence, without much conviction, and little more. So what's going on here? That the only thing that works well in your counseling, you know what it is, Counselor?, you know what it is? It's the propaganda machine. The truth is they have a propaganda machine, that is, that's exceptional, because they put money, money, money, money, money: seven million euros in the last three years you've put yourself into advertising contracts, to try to hide mismanagement, for that's what it is. Then I can give you more data on this topic. Because I want to go to parties to analyze the main areas of competition of your board. And the first thing I want to mention is the area of the water cycle. Because, besides, yesterday -- you didn't mention this, you call me attention -- it was World Water Day, where you usually get reflections. For Junta, it's gone unnoticed. When it's an absolutely central matter, it's an essential asset for the present and for the future, a strategic good, a good, besides, finite, limited, as much as we think we're in abundance. It's a limited resource, and more with the risks of climate change, and we don't see a Galician Union policy that meets this challenge, Counselor, we have to say this. When, in addition, we have our rivers and our rivers in a red alert situation, many of them are in the ICU, and they don't say it, they tell us the facts of Galician waters themselves. In the year 2019 -- latest data we have knowledge of -- : 1,573 pollutant liquids in the yellow rivers, which increased by 24% compared to 2014. We're going to the worst, and you're assuming they've invested 1,100 million euros in the Welsh rivers, and we're going to the worst. This is really a mess, it's a mess, and then I tell you about water skills. And because you have skills, and because you're running late, bad and drag, as you can see with this data, your skills, because you'd give a lot to talk about the state in which the sewage treatment stations in general and in the yellow rivers, both the municipalities and the water management plants in Galicia, Counsellor, are 28. There's the data, which we didn't get from them, they gave it to Ecoloxists in Action; we ask them for article 9, we're still waiting. But they say what they say, what they say, what they say, what they say. And that also has to do with the construction projects and the model they used for the construction of these infrastructures. I'm not going to talk to you anymore -- I'm already making an inquiry about this -- about the pollution of rivers, for various reasons; about the pollution of rivers, of the Eume cours, of Umia, of the coronation of the Cunchas in Lower Limita, of the Varilongo vegetables, which is a scandal the data that have recently emerged, where are the waters of Galicia to stop this catastrophe? And that I have the data here, in addition. The vegetables of the Varilongo mine exceed 325 times the allowed cadmium threshold, where is the waters of Galicia, Counsellor?, what do you intend to do about this? Anyway, he didn't say anything about the expiry of the hydroelectric dam concessions, we've been six, what do you plan on doing with this, Counselor? So what we have to say is that it's almost everything not done, and they've been ruling for 12 years and investing a lot of money doing it wrong. First: How do they plan to comply with the Water Framework Directive, which marks targets for 2021, this year we are in, Counsellor? When's the German supply plan? When's the yellow sanitation plan? You announced it on your day, precisely on that interpellation, the yellow sanitation plan, and now we've found ourselves in the contract that just came out, with which we're in the first phase of diagnosis that will last year and a half, that is, we're going to put ourselves at the end of the year that comes only with diagnosis. When do you plan? At this rate, he won't give them time to do it throughout the legislation, Counselor. How much for the local water pact you announced in 2013? For when did the Water Sustainable Use Council you announced in 2013 and what is in the Water Law? When, when? In addition, when there is data that put the alarm and red light on excessive water consumption and mismanagement of this resource, and I remind you that there is a study by an expert from Galicia, Montse Valcárcel, who is USC vice-rector on Lugo campus, who says we have 50% more consumption than the European Union average: 613 cubic metres per inhabitant and year. And the Water Sustainable Use Council is not created, nor is it made that new water culture that should be the one that governs the entire hydraulic policy of the Galician Union and also of all other administrations. When you plan to comply with the law that exists in Galicia, approved since 2006 -- by popular legislative initiative, by the way, for the protection, conservation and improvement of the Greek rivers? A very advanced law that you've locked up in a box of counseling and that you've never heard of it again. Well, the reality is, you don't have any proposals and projects. I have to tell you that they have presented a document on the Strategy -- which they call it green, and of the colors we could talk a lot about, the colors that predominate in their politics -- the Green Strategy of Galician Waters, which, really, is very ambitious, Counselor, they are vagueities, they are generalities. And, of course, BNG has proposals, it has alternatives, we've made them public. We have a project -- I don't know if you know it, but I can give you a copy of it -- for the productive recovery of the Galician rivers, which contemplates up to 18 performances in different fields of laughter. We also have our proposals from the Galicia Next Plan for European Funds, where we also include large projects on the water strategy of 2030, or the Galicia Plan 10,000 rivers. We have 10,000 rivers and many of them are in a critical situation, and we must act now. Proposals also to ensure biodiversity in relation to water, because it can't be that we are in the current state of abandonment that are water reserves, wetlands or turbulence. What are you going to do in this matter? By the way, in the Galician Hydrological Plan there were actions planned in this area, what did they do? There were explanations here. We'll ask the director of the waters of Galicia to balance us with the Galician hydrological plan, because they're talking about what they're going to do next, but they haven't done the current balance yet. I have here the document and there are many performances that are not executed, Counselor, and they have to account for this. By the way, if they don't have water and sanitation and purification skills, why do they make a Galician hydrological plan costing multi-millionaire investments? Because they have competences, which says the Water Law, as much as there is a basic law of the state that says... planning, execution, management, everything. Well, what happens is that you replaced competition with incompetence, which is the roadmap of your usual work. Look, you say they're not banners, we'd already like them in Pontevedra to be banners, because what they use is to support much more serious things, such as the indecent, violent campaign of Ence against the municipal government, and I want to ask you here publicly, Counselor, as representative of the Government, to ask you to publicly condemn here, in this gallery, that campaign infamous, indecent, of harassment and blackmail, of extortion, this mob campaign of the company Ence against the municipal government of Pontevedra, to try to force its position and the change of law. [[Applause]] That's intolerable, and you must publicly condemn him here. I asked the same question to Mrs. General Environment Secretary, and she couldn't make that conviction. I hope you do. Finally, I leave for the next intervention some questions relating to the scope of mobility, which also leaves much to be desired, because you don't have a global view of mobility. They only focus on the issue of public transport by road, and so on, because they also have there -- as we've already told them -- an embedded company, a parallel administration, a private company that does the work that the Government should do, which is called Iplan, which takes up consulting contracts, both ordinary management and study contracts, planning contracts. She has also recently been a winner of the drafting of the Welsh Mobility Strategy and the Road Director Plan, etc., etc., etc. Of course, you talk to us about railways when you have a huge responsibility, because you've been ruling eight years in the state, in the dire state of the Galician railway network, you're also making a trick! And it seems very good to us that they now put on the claiming T-shirt, but why didn't they put it on when the People's Party was ruling? That's why they're not credible, Counselor, because they used to shut up and now they're crying. And they had to shout earlier when they ruled their own in Madrid, and they didn't. The one in Lugo no longer has a name, which he said here, when Mr. Fexóo actually promised, on January 10, 2009, solemnly, in the election campaign, that the Board was going to make the AVE to Lugo, which would then pass the bill to the ministry. But what a face they have to come now to teach on this matter!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u22	...Mr. Counsellor... -- finished already, Mr. President -- well, the AP-9, the AP-9, at last, who dare here... when you are responsible for the increase in concession, privatization, the increase in fees, and that we are paying those fees now, because you... remember this photo, this photo on the Rande bridge, where you are here, with the greatest plan of the People's Party -- by the way, the biggest plan that is going on this week by the National Audience to declare for corruption cases, starting with Mr. Rajoy -- for here was inaugurating the rise of the beaches, Madam Counselor. [[Applause]] Then don't come teaching us lessons. Besides, because you presented here a document, which I have here and I can teach you and give you the data, which provides a 25% reduction in respect of AP-9. So from lessons in this matter, nothing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We'll follow after.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u23	Thank you, Mr Bará. You have another shift later, Mr. Bará. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u24	Good morning to all. Thank you, President. Counsellor, we also join the condolences expressed here by the Counsellor and the rest of the parliamentary groups. And I want to start by thanking you for your presence, Counselor, thanking you for your attendance, for your explanations of the work you are doing in your office, for your involvement in the pandemic solution, and also for an important concern about the people you've shown during your intervention and, above all, about the actions you've come to develop your advice with your work. You may think that this council is the councillor of cement, don't you? We've heard it many times in this Parliament, but nothing further from reality, because it's much more social than it seems, and after listening to it it it is clear their concern for people, for the sustainability and climate change, that territorial cohesion, employment, security, equal opportunities and also for new people. And I want to congratulate you, explicitly, on what some spokesman here said, that they lacked courage. I think if anything defines it to you, it's the courage you have to face the challenges you face in the board. And I'm saying this because one day in your office you're faced with a lot of problems, and what many political leaders are doing is going through a long time, not touching anything so that there's no problems, and yet you're doing what you did in your board was dealing with problems, putting solutions on the table, and of course you have to thank him, I thank him, and I hope he never changes that attitude towards the management of the public. You were talking about a lot of things. I'd like to quote some and also comment on something the other spokespersons said. I agree that what has been advanced in public transport in Galicia is very important. The metropolitan transport of Galicia to the whole territory, as well as the New People's card, in which often it is not important enough, is fundamental to Galicia. Galician public transport -- some spokesperson who lacked courage -- 127 contracts, 3,100 bus lines, 300,000 services and more than 40,000 stops in Galicia. When this data is put on the table, there are very few politicians who would dare to get into this, because there are other politicians from other political parties in other administrations, which they do is not touch anything, they extend what there is, and that is what we have many examples in many provinces governed by the Socialist Party and also in cities governed by the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Wales. I would like to congratulate you on having caught this bull by the horns, and to recognize that bravery, because in the end what you do is put cheaper tariffs and an integrated tariff system. 25.1 million trips per year, a bonus of 17.5 million trips, users of the transport cost in public Galicia, which is 110 million euros, only pay 26%, the rest pay for Galician Union; this is unpublished in any other community. It's unpublished. But instead of recognizing that effort, that work and courage, we focus on another sort of thing that we'll have a chance to talk about. Intermodality, and here I really need to talk about what other spokespersons have said. Look, what became clear in this appearance of yours, counselor, is that, apart from dealing with the problems that are your competition, you who are your competitors try to fix it, fix it and work on it, and there are others who don't. And in the case of intermodalities, because it turns out they collide, or they share two competitions, and what has to be clear is that on the side of the Galician Union, everything was always done to get them to go forward. I told the PSOE spokesperson that Lugo wasn't leaving because there was an interest in not knowing what. Home!, Santiago is ready, and governs the same political party. Where was the interest then between Lugo and Santiago? What's the difference? Well, probably in Santiago they did something more than what the mayor of Lugo did, probably. And probably, of course, from the Government they've done more things in Santiago than in Lugo, that's what you ask of your party. Santiago works, there are things left to do on the part of the county, which we suppose will be done quickly. In Ourense it also works, except for the underground parking lot that Adif does not do. In Vigo and Junta, 10 million of a total of 18. In Pontevedra 4.2. At the Coruña, hey! they probably didn't tell you exactly what happened with the Coruña intermodal. As Vice-President, I spoke to the previous municipal government. Look, it wasn't the Socialist Party, it was the Tide Party, and it changed the project on three occasions to delay the project. When the new mayor arrived it was easier to reach an agreement with her, it's true. But the delay is not in the engagement or negotiation of the Union with the Mayor of the Socialist Party. The delay is in Adif, the delay is in the Government, there is an agreement that has been reached with the Town Hall for months, and what you have not met, spokeswoman, Mrs. Otero, is Adif. Tell them to explain it well, talk to their fellow members of the Socialist Party Coruña, you can explain it. Of course! if you trust Mr. Arunguena, the information is probably not accurate, but I tell you to talk to the mayor, who can tell you how the situation is. [[Applause]] And you were talking about AVE. Look, I want to thank you, Counselor, that, despite what Mr Bará said, you have your skills and you try to carry them out and face them. But he also does something important, which is to denounce when other administrations don't meet their commitments, or not to comply with Galicia. I think that's important, that you put it on and say it every time this happens. In Galicia the opposition will also do so when you don't buy it, don't worry, but we need the Galician Union to have a voice that can tell the truth. He was talking about the case of AVE to Lugo, and he was talking about the voice of the Socialist Party. Look, last week we saw the engagement, or we saw a reality, and it's that the president of Adif, a Galician, says that the first phase will be ready in 2024, and the second phase will not be done. And now you come here to say that in 2009 there was a commitment from Mr. Feijóo. No, look, I'll make it easier, I'll make it easier. In 2018, the Minister of the People's Party announced in the Government Sub-Delegation the arrival of the AVE in 2021. Yeah, you know who was sitting here in third row? The President of Adif, because he was already a high post of Adif at that time with the Government of the People's Party -- he was already a high post --. And at that moment I agreed that the AVE would arrive in the year 2021, and do you know what happened now that it became the president of Adif? He goes to Lugo last week and delays everything. And you know what the Socialist Party is doing? Please applaud instead of reporting a new delay; and instead of reporting what you're doing, you're going to applaud. You too, because you don't think people don't know! [[Applause]] Something similar happens with the Atlantic corridor. [[Applause]] You were talking about the meeting with Abalos on March 5th. It is true, it has committed itself to prolonging Portugal's high speed and the connection between Vigo and Porto. But the truth is that throughout this time there is a way to deal with the very different problems on the part of the Counselor and on the part of the ministry. We tried in Galicia that the impact of the pandemic was as minimal as possible, we were from the first communities that we attended the public transport service. And what did the government do? Well, with the railway service, it reduces a lot of frequencies and, of course, doesn't rest them and affect many citizens. This happens on the railway, that abandonment, that deterioration, that reduction in services with the excuse of the pandemic; and it also passes on airport transport; you just have to look at the frequency of flights that exist today from the three airports, they have been completely reduced. That's right -- it made me curious! --, planes go full up, and yet they don't rest new frequencies, you know why, because probably the ministry is more concerned with helping airlines than helping the Greeks that we live in this corner of Spain. And since airlines don't call themselves Plus Ultra because they have what they have, they'll also have to take care of it. And they'll also have to say why they put the interests of airlines ahead of the people who live in Galicia. And they were also talking about roads, and you were saying what the situation of leaving the roads is. Well, I'm here, honestly, I think it was a joke, because you're the only one who has to do it is to travel any of the state-competent highways, a highway that is the fundamental route, the most important connection that the state has, you know how the state of the highways is, the A-9 or below, do you know how it is? But you've been around for them? But if they're worse than any clue to a small county with no resources, they're much worse, they've had years of continuous berries that aren't fixed! On a highway, which means for road safety. And you were talking about, of course, that road safety doesn't work. In the budgets of this council and in a number of subsequent initiatives you have tabled many amendments to the budgets where, by chance, they propose to further reduce the conservation of the Galician Union, the games they have dedicated to conservation. And now he comes here saying that conservation is not used or that since then it's bad. Look! Just like saying we're asking for the opening of the Folgoso tunnel without taking the measures, it's a lie. That's a lie in every rule, you just have to see what the exact proposal we take to the Commission and what you said, and that's the way the Socialist Party acts. But I'm done. Look, Counselor, I encourage you to keep working on what you've got, or what you're doing, or how you're doing it. We will speak in the second intervention of the beaches and the subject of water, of the spills and of what has been invested by the Galician Union in the Galician rivers. And also what are the help that Members of Parliament and the Council are taking to ensure that this problem is finally solved. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u25	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica. Director of Infrastructure and Mobility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u26	Thank you, President. I, in my first intervention, tried to summarize, in the time we have, all the actions we carry out in the Infrastructure Council and that will guide and mark the work in this legislation. It's impossible to develop in detail everything we're doing and everything we want to do in the next four years. I'm sorry they look like a stick to keep working as we came to work, that I think it's more than proven that we shouldn't harm it. There are proven results, I'm talking with results, not opinion by opinion, and there's the management experience, and there's the results. You might wonder what your priorities are. In my speech it became clear that priority is people, people's safety, health infrastructure, too; I have not heard anything about health structures. It should not seem important to you that at the Infrastructure Council we support the execution of health centres in Narón, Paderne de Allariz, O Saviníao, Bouzas, end of Ares, The Road, The Milladoiro, the integral health center in Lugo, in Lalin, the neighborhood of the Residence of Lugo, where we are working, the Gran Montecelo hospital, which we assisted in record time and which we started in May, the new CHUAC, who had to wait eight months for the Socialist Party of Coruña, the Mayor of Coruña, and who had noticed the relevance of the action, eight months!, if we sign the same as we proposed eight months earlier! But, well, it's better late than ever, at least we can get him to sign, it's better late than never! If it's been eight months to convince you to contribute to public health as welcome, even if it's too late. So drive new health infrastructures I think it's important, than you said nothing; and besides helping to strengthen the public health of the future, it also contributes to economic activity. You question the work of transport, or not for the not; and, of course, the bet on public transport there is in fact. They despise, they don't -- I don't know, the word you think best about -- all the work done, ingenuity, on transport. We ended that ambitious process, of course we did, and we made a unique bet on public transport. Because the easy thing is not to do anything, the easy thing is to extend how the Vitrasa Vigo Town Hall does: we're going to extend here, which we're in the vault, the transport contract in Vigo, for example. The truth is it's a very important job, in the Bipartite of the Galician Union I haven't seen any progress in transforming public transport into Galicia. And we're talking about 127 new contracts, 3,100 lines, 300,000 services a month in public transport, over 50,000 stops. Of course, it's a huge job and we see what's going on on the train, cutting services, taking advantage of the pandemic to cut services. Of course, the Government of Pedro Sánchez doesn't sleep out the mobility needs in Galicia, of course they don't sleep out, because we do important jobs. If we've done the same thing the Socialist Party does in the Spanish Government, to take advantage of the pandemic to reduce services, if we've done the same thing maybe we don't have buses. But no, we keep betting on public transport and also in the middle of the pandemic, ensuring public service, injecting more than 80 million euros a year and making the necessary adjustments. Because this magnitude of new service contracts, which is an ingenious volume, not only investment but information, because we have to make some adjustment that might be 1 % or 0.5; adjustments that we value, think about them, analyze them and implement them. I see they don't care about the extension of the New People's card and the metro card to all of Galicia, they seem insignificant, at best, in terms of transport. We're going to extend it even though you don't consider it important, and encouraging public transport in young people is also helping the economy of families, especially in the middle of the pandemic, for that more economic mobility. Also social mobility, more economic mobility in transport, that transport area, I see it doesn't seem new to them either. But, well, I'm surprised in public transport that you're talking to me and that you also despise that in April we increase those bonuses from the recurring user. Because they are initiatives, of course, quiet, young people are an initiative of silence... transport is an initiative of silence, it is a bet on social mobility and economic mobility and green mobility. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And what do you do about transportation? If you'll excuse me for Mr Bará's speech, ask for popes. [[Laughter]] In Pontevedra, please, let the Galician Board, with its buses, do us the urban bus, because, of course, this is very complicated. [[Applause]] So, well, if the Galician Union with its buses does us the favor of making urban transport and opens and closes the door in urban transport, as enchanted; and in Ferrol the same. If the Galician Board, with its buses, makes urban transport, welcome. And we are there, helping the Pontevedra Town Hall, the Galego Nationalist Block, and helping the Ferrol Town Hall, the Socialist Party, in transport, because we want to contribute. And we'll sign an agreement with the Pontevedra Council, but allow me the expression -- if you allow me --, I think it's for people to understand us, because it's talkatively so that people understand what we're talking about. And the will and the work there are and there are the results, is that there are the results in the territory, and they win the works at the intermodal station in Ourense, which I now explain. The Ourense bus station, finished, lack of finish, the Ourense bus station, which allows in 30 seconds to exchange modes of transport. But the fact is that it is done 7% of the works we have financed from the Galician Union, 93% of the Ourense intermodal station depends on the Government of Spain and nothing at all, all stopped by the Government of Spain at the railway terminal and at the Ourense intermodal station. We call for the follow-up commission, we ask for it again and we reiterate it, we cry out in the desert for that follow-up commission, in addition, and the part that has the glues, so there are the facts and the results. We paint investments in the budget, we approve them, but we run them, others, like the intermodal of the Coruña, I want to see how much they execute. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Do you think, makeup... make him up, but then how do you execute him? [[Applause]] It's not yet auctioned, that announcement of the year 2019 of the upcoming auction with a lot of pump from the intermodal of the Coruña on the railway side and we're in 2021. What has been done since the year 2019 that has been announced with a lot of pump the bid and we are in March 2021 and it hasn't been tendered? Of course, it's hard for me to understand, I don't understand, and so there's the results. Lugo's intermodal. Compare Galician Union and I will understand that I cannot share it because, in addition, if the truth is lacking. The Galician Union, in addition to doing what is in its competence, which is the bus terminal integrated into the intermodal station, co-finances far beyond its competences to relieve municipal buildings. We proposed co-financing the city pass, we proposed co-financing the urbanization of the Town Hall. But what you can't expect is that the Galician Union, that the Administration that manages the money of all the Greeks, and therefore that all the Greeks finance a parking lot that needs the Adif. In addition, the Administration which has the powers in health finance a parking lot that needs Adif for railway needs. But besides, that Adif has EUR 5.700 million of the recovery and resilience mechanism, is it not your interest to invest in the intermodal of Lugo? But that, yes, in the election campaign they announce all the infographics, the minister and the president of Adif at the intermodal in Lugo, but they don't want to pay: I invite you and you pay? No, of course, the Government of Spain invites the Council of Galicia to pay for what it presented with a lot of pump and pump and bowl. Therefore, I believe that with Lugo's intermodal he should have a little more seriousness, of course, as with the intermodal of the Coruña. From Lugo's high speed, of course, it's incomprehensible, inconceivable, and I can't share it; of course, it seems intolerable to me. In any case, you've already objected here and we've rightly talked about the arrival of the high speed to Lugo, which is what you came here to move and sell cats for hare. I mean, reporting with a lot of pumps, too, because that's what we're used to, cuts, discounts and delays. That's what you came here to announce to us the responsible person who is in command of Adif. Of course our duty, though not to share it, is to defend Galicia, and we did it before and do it now. Before the minister came every three months and we could talk to him and follow him up. I could teach you -- there's the hemerothecs, the letters, etc. -- that we've seen asking for the same before now. There's the alliance of the Atlantic corridor. The alliance of the Atlantic corridor is in 2017 between Asturias, Galicia and Castile-Leon. Who ruled in 2017? So we've seen the same work of defending Galician legitimate interests before and after. Nothing to say about the railway connection to Langosteira... despite the rejection or position of certain high positions of the Government of Spain, the minister has committed himself or herself to bid access to the port of Langosteira, regardless of funding. To me what really surprised me at that peak, which, in my view, was a fiasco on February 23rd, is that the Town Hall of Coruña did not comply with anything. It did nothing, it did -- "I'm going to study the student" -- it did nothing. It's really worrisome to conform to nothing; if it's hard to do nothing, to conform to nothing, that's very complicated. Of course, above all, because of the necessary infrastructure in the Coruña and being mayor of the Coruña, I, of course, do not share it. And, above all, EUR 5.700 million that has the Adif of the Recovery and Resilience Fund, will there not be anything left in Galicia? I think... I'd like you to support us on which resilience and recovery investments come to Galicia, but in any case, we are equal to the source of funding, so that we will, of course, celebrate it in case it is. From the Santiago-Luco bus, I said it in my first intervention; of course, there's the Santiago-Luco bus until the year 2026, which surprises us and, of course, we can't admit it. We don't know anything from the Vigo-The Porriño bus. We're worried about the signatures on the national roads. But anyway, we keep working and making proposals, proposals like we did with the AP-9 bonuses. What about AP-9 to say? It's the highway that got the most up in Spain on January 1st; again, it was the highway that got the most up January 1st as a result of this royal decree of extraordinary ascents. No, no, you're confused, you're confused. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The report of the Advisory Council believes that they are null and void, in addition, starting there. And there's also an unfair enrichment. For that royal decree that authorized these extraordinary subs in AP-9, which suppose an unjust enrichment of Audasa, which is written there, that the Advisory Council says they are null and void of right, lead to the heading of a socialist government. So these are matters we cannot admit and, of course, we must review. We, in any case, will implement bonuses to numerous families on our highways and, in this case, Galicia will be pioneers to support numerous families according to the lines of work of the Demographic Push Law. We can continue to speak, of course, continuously of all the initiatives of the Galician Union, also of the rest of the administrations, but we will continue to work as we have seen, because it results and, of course, badly stopped the Greeks if we heed their proposals that the Greeks pay the highways of the state itself. Of course that's not to defend the interests of the Greeks. You were talking -- Mrs. Otero -- about how many debuggers they were going to do. Well, you know it's municipal competition, but I'm not saying it, because we're helping the municipalities. We recognize that the municipalities are overwhelmed, which is a matter that overflows them, because it's complex. But we're helping, but they also help Members, we'd be delighted, not to do it alone, because they have competences. But in the matter of debuggers in our rivers, we asked the Secretary of State -- which was a constructive meeting, Hugo Morán -- that, please, agility in the back. And I'm going to give you a very graphic example. In 2018 we requested permission for the emissary in the debuggera de Pleasures. And we don't have it yet. What do you think, after sending, and sending and sending, ask us to do documentation that doesn't come up with the story? Therefore, it is necessary, of course, to advance in the sanitation of rivers, the collaboration of all administrations, compulsory collaboration for administrative agility. And, Mr Bará, I agree with you that water is essential, it is basic. No one doubted, in the middle of the pandemic, that we had missed water on the tap or that the water that passes through our pool could have some kind of trouble with the shelter, for the work of many people. But, of course, that he gives me lessons in sanitation in the laughs to me, what do you want me to tell him? The results in the sanitation of the rivers in the Bipartite are there: it was to fund the sector with funds and not to all, to some, without improving for nothing the laughs or production. And since we arrived, since 2009, 13.5 million square meters of shellfish area for production. So look at that big difference. And, Mr Bará, by setting a very, very small example, but small things are also important, for the matter of sanitation and debugging. You're talking about the EDARs we run at the Galician Board. I don't know if you know that the sanitation system is more EDAR collector. If you do what you want in the container, of course, it's easy to blame the debugger. We put it in the collector, so infiltrate, the whole river, it's the debugger's fault. So I think we need to talk to something more about ownership, because, above all, we are helping the municipalities take their debugger, let it be the fault of the debugger rather than the collector network!, as it is proven that they are the networks of collectors of the municipalities of Niger and Gondomar, fundamentally. If there were any examples you would have moved me. But just one question, I'm going to send you a video, a video from the collector of the river Gafos, who executed the Town Hall of Pontevedra, that what they did is something we've already warned, which is that the spill here is moving him here. Then the spill is done here in an arched. We've already told him and explained that this doesn't work, that storm tanks have to be made, figures of holding tanks, and so you're what they did on the Gafos River is that the spill, instead of at one point, is at a point of water below. So, sanitation lessons, it's a very complex topic that overflows the municipalities, and so I think we need to talk about sanitation property, which when you want to address, specifically, sanitation infrastructure, with great pleasure. For my part nothing else and I hope to have answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u27	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u28	Thank you, President. He said, Counselor: we do silent actions. Well, so quiet they must be and they do it so quietly and so quietly... because we don't know, the truth is, where are all those works that you came to announce here today. [[Applause]] The truth is they were quite quiet, for several years they were quite quiet. You said you didn't change your attitude when you ruled the People's Party in Madrid and now you're ruling the Socialist Party. Home!, your attitude has changed completely since June 2018. Until then you were completely silent, totally with the ears of the goose and nodding to everything they didn't do from Madrid, to all the contempt they did from Madrid to our autonomous community, and from June 2018 they came in the rushes and everything is asking fast and for what they haven't been doing for seven and a half years. The truth is, Mr. Calvo, I think we've been in totally different appearances. Because you very much thanked the Counsellor -- I understand this is the role of the Popular Parliamentary Group -- but, of course, the only thing you can thank the Counselor today is to come and throw balloons out. Because it's all someone else's fault. It's the central government's fault, it's the council's fault, it's the deputy's fault. Well, of three Members, because they even scored those three Deputies that have a cost. It's not going to be that we're getting the House of Ourense into some scumbag that can bring us some compromise! [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Calvo, I was talking about the intermodal of the Coruña... I was talking about real data and data, which are in the general budgets of the different administrations. Can you tell me it's a lie that there are budgets in the general budget of the state 18.6 million euros for the intermodal of the Crown and in the budget of the Galician board 4.5? I was the one I talked about, I didn't talk about other issues, as you want to get into this show. Of course, you came back with the theme of AVE to Lugo, too. It's just that we've already said it both by the voicer of the Galician Nationalist Block and myself. It's just that it's a terrible hard face when the only one who promised it, and I say it again, because there's the hemerotheque there, was the president of the Galician Union himself when he was a candidate in 2009, who went further and even said he would finance it with his own funds. He's talking about the delay, the delay of Lugo's railway. But, look, when we arrived at the Government, when we arrived at the Government in 2018, when the Socialist Party arrived, there was neither a sad study nor a sad project for Lugo's train. [[Applause]] Nothing at all. Of course we have to move forward, and that's the central government's commitment, but we can't do in two days what we haven't done in seven and a half years. You were talking... look, it's not true. I can't allow you to say that I lied when I said that the counsellor was asking for the reopening of the circulation through the urgent route of the Folgoso tunnel: statements by the advisor on February 10, 2021. By those it was incongruent the urgent arrangement and the opening with all guarantees. The initiative taken by the People's Parliamentary Group is dated 3 March 2021. Then you might have changed the resolution somewhat, but the words of the councillor on February 10, 2021 are there, asking for the urgent reopening of the Folgoso tunnel. Look, I was talking to Mrs. Counselor: the minister had come to Galicia once every three months. And what was it about? What was he doing on those visits? Any compromises? Any reality? No, because the continued delays you now attribute to the Central Government, those continued delays came from the Government presided over by Mariano Rajoy. What benefit do we get from the Greeks and the Greeks that the minister had come to Galicia every three months? It's better if I came much less and compromised works and made reality those infrastructures that are so necessary for our community. [[Applause]] You were also talking about the projects, about these European funds, about how you're doing, you're questioning everything, aren't you? They work, they work in coordination, they also work with other governments, so that the largest number of European funds, these European resilience funds, can be reached. They are, of course, necessary for our autonomous community, but you know that you have a great job ahead of you by presenting good projects that can be financed from these European funds. You were also talking about the new Ourense bus station. Can you be proud of ourense's new bus station? It's, more than anything, a pendant and you know it well. And it sucks when you've changed everything and when nobody's happy with that performance. He also talks about the fines of the AP-9 fee. But, look, what we're talking about today -- and I'm not going to get tired of saying it -- of those bonuses from that AP-9 peas, it's because there was someone who himself directly bet on blessing these fees; and it was that Government, that central government, with those general State budgets that are the ones that will make this fall in the fees, which, by the way, both the Popular Parliamentary Group and the BNG voted against these general State budgets, which will be the ones that make these bonuses happen. [[Applause]] Look, I do have to agree very much with what Mr Bará said about advertising, propaganda, the truth is, they're experts, their cards also cost all the Greeks and all the Greeks!...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u30	...but, well, you, really, are experts. But to us, Counsellor, what interests us, of course, is the reality of the facts, the reality of Galician infrastructures and, of course!, allow me, that I will finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u32	... telling me that let me doubt a lot of the works, of the projects, which you came to announce here today, that there were few, and it was a copy and take also what you said to us, right? in the appearance of budgets, but let me tell you this with the experience we have of the non-compliance of Plan Move. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u34	Counselor, I have to tell you that you have not answered me at all to anything, to any of the questions I have asked you here. And, look, I can, I can, I can go through this, but what I formally ask you, solemnly, in this gallery, is to condemn the violent attacks on the mayor of Pontevedra, because that wasn't a protest, that wasn't a demonstration, it wasn't a boycott, that they surrounded the mayor's car, that they kicked him, that they hit him... that's not a protest, that's violence and they have to condemn him, nothing happens, come here and condemn him, Counselor. [[Applause]] Condemns that aggression, that violent attack on the mayor of Pontevedra. And then you came here to do the role of Dr. Jekyll, Mr. Feijóo makes Hyde mystery... but it doesn't make it clear to me, because one day he hugs them with Mr. Abalos in Madrid, in Castellana... who, by the way, remembers very much the embrace with Blanco in the courtyard, but that idiocy lasted a little later, I don't know how long this will last, but one day they say something and another day they say the opposite. So be clear, see what's going on in this matter. With regard to mobility, what is put in the documents of the Galician Union is that you have asked for discounts -- Counsellor, look here, if you can -- for 12.9 million euros: document presented in this parliament, sent to this parliament, you're talking about 50 million. So you asked for less than you are... by the way, a discount that is mainly thanks to the work of a member of the BNG and the negotiation of a member of the BNG, one Member has been allowed to reach here and much more will be advanced in this matter. [[Applause]] Public transport. We have no problem talking about the improvements in Galicia's transport area. By the way, you'll have to go into detail on the subject of the document, which has a lot of things to work on, which you can take. And also the New People's card. But I'm making a proposal that we're willing to make with you and accept, what do you think if we apply these reductions to all the German student at all levels of education until the age of 30? That's BNG's proposal: free bus transportation for all students under 30 years of age at any educational stage, do you think? We signed the deal today even if they want to. With regard to infrastructures and intermodals, come here to quote the Ourense intermodal, which does not even reach a confectioner, which is a true pendant, order trick, Counsellor! That's where we didn't pass. [[Applause]] And, of course, you have a budget mortgaged on infrastructures by prices in the shadow, and, of course, you have to dedicate yourself to making investments by other advisors through the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. And you spoke here assuming a lot of the Montecelo hospital, but you didn't say, first, that it's the second bid, that you made one in 2020 and you had to cancel it. So we lost a year. But it's not that we lost a year, is that we lost ten, because when you arrived at Junta in 2009 they put the Montecelo enlargement project in a drawer, which should already be done, why? Because you wanted to do a private hospital, Monte Carrasco, like Vigo. And in the end popular mobilization and the position of the Pontevedra Town Hall has succeeded in paralyzing that barbarity, and we have lost ten years on the way, Counselor; therefore, they do not presume of this. By the way, tell me how they're going to solve the demands that Mourente's neighborhoods have on these lands, which they didn't tell us. Propaganda contracts, of course, you told us that you had made a video of the river Gafos, it must be this contract you have here: making videos and infographics. This makes the NODO, Counselor, wrong, is that you, I imagine it to you there, in a room like the General, watching the lithographs and the videos they make through these contracts: seven million euros in advertising contracts! This is the reality of their priorities. And, look, I'm finishing this minute that I have left -- a little more with the generosity of the President who characterizes it, this is called captatio benevolencee, Mr. President -- with proposals that we bring here also formally to present to them, to reach agreements, because we think this is the time to come to major agreements on issues that are transcendental and priority. [[Laughter]] The first is about the water cycle and the new water culture. The BNG has put forward proposals in this regard that speak of a Greek water strategy of 2030, the river plan, the plan Galicia of 10,000 rivers and the protection of resources. What you didn't tell me was from the wetlands and the storms, which there's a ridiculous amount in the project you presented. Second, the German sustainable, healthy and secure mobility strategy -- also a proposal that we bring here -- which contemplates all forms of mobility, not just public transport. Third, the Greek covenant for road safety to save lives. By the way, the Road Safety Plan has expired, we're in 2021. What are you going to do? Fourth, new road transport plan free of charge for all students, as proposed before. Fifth, defense of the conventional railway and creation of the German railway force, Galtren. You've bet on this in 2010 and then you've put it in a drawer. Sixth, AP-9, transfer, discount the fees but without giving up an AP gallega free of fees, as we've been saying. Next, the urban agenda is in Wales 2030, because you... and I invite her, because she talked here about Pontevedra, coming to Pontevedra, who's coming over there for a day. I've already handed him this book on his day, in the audience debate. I don't know if you've had a chance to read it, but here are a lot of solutions for 70% of the Welsh population, which are being copied around the world and also by the Ministry of Development. So, come to Pontevedra and we will generously share the experiences and all the progress that has been made there. And finally, skills, Counsellor, we ask for more powers to manage water, watersheds, backs, traffic and road safety, to also have an integral Welsh police, railways, ports of general interest, etc. etc etc And finished,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u36	...all this is to have a policy with more chromatic variety, a truly green and blue policy, because your policy, Counselor, is painted with the gray infrastructures, the brown water and the black of mobility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u37	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, you have to hear in this House that we do not condemn acts of violence against the institutions by a member of the Block, some people like me, like Mr. José Manuel Rey, like Mr. Miguel Tellado, who in a past act we had to get out protected by riots because there were all the unions -- oh, it's in a trial! -- out there... we're still waiting for the Galician Nationalist Block to condemn those acts. Or like when we were concelers at Ferrol Town Hall and they literally banned us from entering the Town Hall. I'm waiting for a conviction from you. But this is even more expensive, because it turns out that in the previous plenary we proposed an institutional statement, to all groups, condemning acts of violence that were taking place in many cities, do you know what happened? that his Block and the Socialist Party disagreed, and this week -- oh!, the PSOE yes, sorry, the PSOE yes -- at Tuesday's Speaker's Board, we passed another proposal condemning violence, explicitly what happened in the Pontevedra Town Hall, and you know what's going on? That the Socialist Party and we agree and you don't want to condemn her, and now ask us to condemn her, but what do you say, man? [[Applause]] There's got to be some shame. And if they don't explain what's going on. Because the Galego Nationalist Block, at this moment, has not yet given a good view to that condemnation, in which the PP undertakes to condemn all acts that use violence, including Pontevedra's. And you know what they do? What they're interested in, when they're interested in and telling something here and elsewhere. That's why, man, a little serious. That this of you is doomed and we propose to condemn him, to see if you want. I'm telling you here, see if you want that and the rest. So, please, a little serious, it doesn't make much sense for you to do this, but there you, there you! Look, there were some pending things left, such as the matter of fees, of what you spoke again and spoke to the counselor. The work he's been doing in the German Government since the last few years has been quite serious, and the truth is, we've always said the same thing. The spokesman for the Socialist Party said that the meetings with the minister would be worth every three months, man, so that, among other things, Rande's and Barcala's peas would pay the Ministry and the Greeks wouldn't pay it, would it? You don't think it's just that data? Well, well, it was a lot of millions of euros that we saved, about 400 at the end of the period they had committed, about 400 million. That's all it's worth meeting every three months for ten years, only with that, but the truth is, he worked in a much more fluid way. And look, the rates. It has already become clear in this Parliament that the first thing that has increased the validity of the contract was Mr Touriño, in return for nothing. Then the PP also did, it's true, but in exchange for the people we lived in the northern part of the province of Coruña, more than 20 years later they had a highway, still on the last free landing. Home!, we may agree or not, whether it was fair or not, but, of course, it was with a clear, necessary and just counterpart to the entire northern part of the province of Coruña. But, look, now that we went to Parliament just two months ago, we unanimously approved the parties that have representation in Galicia, but not other parties, a proposal that came out of Parliament in Galicia. It was February 2nd, today is March 23nd, until five times the Congress Bureau has been asked to reactivate this proposal from the Galician Parliament, up to five times, Mrs Otero, five times, and the Socialist Party at the Congress Bureau has paralysed the process. Up to five times, let's keep asking! -- the block there has nothing to do with it because it's not in the Bureau -- up to five times you've paralyzed it in the Congress of Deputies, we'll keep asking, don't worry, but you'll have to start explaining a lot of things. And the intermodal of the Coruña will explain it again. Adif has to do a number of jobs on the train tracks, and that's Adif's. The Union's commitment to the intermodal station is closed with the Town Hall. The games that Junta has are for building, Adif needs to do more. It's already in 2019 if you've compromised your bid, we're in 2021 and you haven't. And I'm telling you again, the fundamental delay was the previous four years, where the Tide Government -- with support from the Socialist Party, but the Tide Government -- has changed the project on several occasions. Ask the technicians or the mayor of the Town Hall. You'll quite agree with the position I'm telling you, quite okay. Therefore, the interest of the Galician Union in mobilizing these infrastructures is clear, of course, as it shows here next door. When he leaves today, he goes into operation immediately, and he stays for doing something to the Town Hall, something smaller, that we suppose he will do it today, by the way, a council that is not the PP, so there's no problem, you can also talk to the mayor. It's over. I'm finished because it's true, Counselor, that you're making an important effort on infrastructure, and also on water. And he said the spokesman for the Galician Nationalist Block was throwing balloons out and he had to ask for new competitions. No, if the problem is not asking for new competences, the problem is developing the skills we have. And you, who rule in three deputies -- not in four, in three -- they do nothing, and they have competence for it. The only thing they're asked for is: hey! collaborate, and it's good to throw balloons out and say this is the PSOE thing. No, this is up to you -- I'm done right now -- that's up to you, because if you want to change government and change things, what happens is that it's easier... yes, of course, tell the Socialist Party, where they're ruling because of their votes, that they take seriously the things that are affecting Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What happens is that what you want is to keep the saddle and protest so that nobody will tell them anything. And you can't survive and breathe at the same time, because the problems are clear. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u39	For the double turn and the end of this debate, you have the floor of Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle's Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy in such a short time to explain in detail each of the lines, actions and initiatives we want to develop and we intend to develop in this legislation. They exposed the general lines, conditioned by the very extraordinary and difficult circumstances in which we are, but of course, we will continue to work intensely on this complicated task of managing in the public administration, in the pandemic in which we find ourselves, and the work done and what remains to be done is also thanks to all the staff of the council. I take advantage of it to thank them for the work they have done and, above all, for the work -- of course, that Titanic -- that remains, to continue to sink into the lines and initiatives we plan to develop along the legislation, that we will have many other opportunities to continue detailing each and every one of them. In my speech, I think the three basic pillars we're working on are clear: mobility, infrastructure and water management. It's three fundamental pillars, but mobility seems to meridionally clear that it's a preference. Mobility plays a leading role in the actions of this council and, above all, in the rest of the legislation. I'm talking about mobility in a broad sense of word, green mobility, more economical mobility, healthy mobility, safe mobility and agile and competitive mobility. Less polluting mobility, promoting public transport, and the constitution of Galicia's transport area is an important milestone, for it brings many advantages and many opportunities to the Greeks, who will thus have the same advantages living where they live. The extension of the New People's card for those under 21 is also important. From May all young people under 21 years of age in Galicia can use the Galician Junta bus for free. And the set-up takes a prudential time to adjust and meet the demands adjusted to reality. Of course it's a titanic effort, I don't know why they doubt it, because of course it was and it still is. I'm talking about economic mobility, economic mobility because there's difficulties, there's a lot of difficulties in families as a result of the pandemic, and I think we have to -- public administrations -- make that effort so that they have less expenses for families as far as their mobility is concerned. That's why the actions we proposed today: the transport area, the New People, and also the initiatives that you talked about in 2017 as a waste of it: the bus shared and transport demand, of course, are very important initiatives to develop the mobility of our rural population. Also the freezing or falling of the beaches, thinking of the family economy, is one of the actions of the Government of Galician Union, and as for the bonuses of the buses of Galician Union, which are the interurbans, we, of course, open hands if urban buses also do and implement similar initiatives. And public transport is also the train. The train is a mode of transport and, of course, we see how users are suffering from deficiencies in service and frequencies, as train users who are being harmed as a result of this service minority, showing up in the excuse of the health crisis, services that they know correspond to the Government of Spain. With regard to the arrival of AVE, which is also a fundamental factor in improving mobility, we hope that it will be with all security assurances. Time gives and takes away reasons and therefore time will tell when we can catch that high-speed train. So important in infrastructure, as well as the type of train, is the rolling stock. We'll wait to see what time says and, if not, we'll continue to defend, as we've always been doing, now and before, defending Galicia's interests. About the AVE to Lugo, I insist again that I believe that the measures announced recently to the bomb and plate, for us squeez the insult. Of course, to reduce half of the investment, of course, to disregard a reduction of more than 20 minutes, we can't admit it and therefore it's not an ad, that is not an ad to suck, which here you did suck with that high speed ad to Lugo, which are discounts, delays and cuts. Sustainable and healthy mobility is also important; there are the roadmaps we're pushing, which are essential, with the safety label, because we want not only sustainable but also safe mobility, and that's why our paths are designed with that safety label, because road safety is essential. We will continue to redouble our efforts to improve the high-capacity roads, also for the improvement of the roads, of the 5,500 kilometres of roads on which we have competences at Junta de Galicia. In the firms, the firms are also fundamental to road safety. And they're not big performances or big investments, I invite the Socialist Party to travel by highways the powers of the state. A-52: I just went to announce an invitation to bid, an invitation to a firm reinforcement in Ourense province, and the truth is, when I went to A-52, of course, I put my hands to my head for the state of conservation. We would therefore like to be helped by these firm reinforcements in the national, on the highways, here in Galicia, a little sensitivity to that type of investment that we consider essential for road safety. Agile mobility is also important. That's where the fundamental role is that of intermodal stations, even though they weigh them. The intermodal stations that are now in service is thanks to the Galician Union; it was the Galician Union that opened the door of intermodality in Galicia. For our action, despite the inaction of the Government of Spain, but it is. It's evidence. I mean again, Ourense intermodal, 97% of all that remains to be done is the Government of Spain, and that's where criticism is, in addition. So I invite you to request that essential follow-up commission in Ourense. Competitive mobility is also obvious that it is essential; competitive mobility is essential. And in Galicia's competitiveness is fundamental to AP-9, AP-9, which has -- as I said before -- the sad honour of being the busiest highway ever since this year, and therefore we have to continue to deepen on this proposal for bonuses. In competitiveness, the Atlantic freight corridor is also important, it has a strategic transcendence. And there are two key performances: one more short-term, immediately, which is the train to Langosteira; another, the southern exit and the connection to Portugal, which is also a fundamental, longer-distance performance. But, of course, the train to Langosteira is already running, because there's no excuse for it not to be auctioned. The clear dialogue bridges remain open, dialogue and cooperation is always positive, but we have a lot of work ahead, we can't afford to waste more time, resign ourselves and shut up for many things that, above all, we see, and even more with the excuse of the pandemic. The opportunity of European funds, of course, is unique, and we are forced by governments to work more intensively, it is up to us to invest these European funds as soon as possible. Because the economy needs it and needs it -- I said it at the beginning of my intervention -- and public administrations are more necessary than ever for their agility and the materialization of these European funds. As for water management, I've already said it: 180 million euros running or processing by Galician Waters to clean up the rivers. It's unquestionable, it's a matter -- I insist again -- municipal competition, but that overflows the municipalities, because it's complex, and I don't know why my words are going through: 180 million euros that we're mobilising in the creeks. And speaking of laughter, I have to say that the House of Ourense finance the laughs, I'm surprised, don't you know where you're on the map? If we talk about healing the rivers, if we talk about healing the rivers, what do you want me to say? The Deputy of Pontevedra, the Deputy of Ourense, the Deputy of Lugo, who are in the creeks, who have costs, because we would like to, but we would like not to assume the competition, look!, that they collaborate with the Council of Galicia, we ask for collaboration, because we add up further, just that, adding up further. [[Applause]] And I hope that in the professionalization of the management and operation of hydraulic infrastructures, of supply and sanitation systems, I look forward to this collaboration and involvement of Members, of all things, in order to achieve, by adding and working together, to get further. For my part, nothing else. As I said, three fundamental pillars: mobility, infrastructure and water management. Green, economic, safe, axile, competitive and essential health infrastructures, to which they made no mention, except for some question Mr Bará, which I cannot share. And, of course, better water management because, of course, water -- I share it with you, Mr. Bará -- is essential. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u41	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the third point of the agenda. Motions. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the persons who are in an unintended loneliness situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u42	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(The Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group (BNG), at the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, tabled the following amendment to this motion:Replace the resolution with the following text:"1. Push the creation of a specific working group to address the unwanted loneliness in Galicia in order to compile, analyze and disseminate information on this phenomenon as well as to make proposals and recommendations thereon.2. Send to the Chamber, as soon as possible, the Galaga Strategy of Attention to Soyness unwanted for its debate and processing in Parliament in accordance with Articles 140 and 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the House."]] To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u43	Thank you, President. Soyness, when chosen, can become the maximum expression of freedom, but when imposed, it can suppose one of the predictive factors that harm mental and physical health itself. The negative perception of loneliness doesn't affect all people who live alone, but it's not limited only to single homes. A few days ago, we threatened with some of the news that they left without words: Mugardos police discovered a woman who had been dead in her own home for two years; they noticed the withdrawal of her vehicle parked on a street hanging from works. You're not the first or you'll be the last person to die, unfortunately, alone in your home without anyone missing you for days, weeks or years, like in this last case. 280,000 people live alone in Galicia, of which more than 126,000 are over 65 years old. And in the last government legislation of the People's Party, people over 65 who live alone increased their risk of poverty by 11 points, according to data from the Galego Institute of Statistics. This is an absolutely relevant subject. Even more after the consequences of the containment restrictions of the cowardly virus to contain the pandemic itself. The subject, as I say, very relevant, which needs the action of the Government, in this case of the People's Party, which supports the Unity of Galicia, and has competences in health and social policy for four consecutive legislations. So you should have a plan of action studied after you announced it almost two years ago after an agreement in this House at the instances of our group, the Socialist Party, and you should not wait for our inquiry so that the advisor improvised an exclusive assumption of the announcement of a plan in which the agents involved have no knowledge whatsoever, and hand over, for example, existing and dependent services, most of the catalog of the services of the so-called Dependency Law, which he has implemented, by course, the Socialist Government, or of services that include the user's colleague and his own municipal archives, and that, in any event, has already existed for years, even decades, making alarm, as I say, of the I invite and you pay. You must therefore take fear in this matter, and address an urgent and serious plan for unwanted loneliness, incorporating as a basis a Greek observatory of loneliness that analyzes, studies and proposes on the matter without improvisation or last-minute occurrences. The truth is, the generation of people over the age of 60 today never imagined the current picture. When the usual thing was always to know the neighbor, his origins, who he was, what his occupation was, what his habits were, to talk at rest in a habitual way, as well as to be interested in his own, nowadays things are changing more and more. And really, we're not aware why or when our direct interaction with the nearest social community fell. But the truth is that society is becoming more and more individualist, and the loss of Community meaning directly affects the health of our society. In fact, evidence related to unwanted loneliness is extracted from existing studies with negative consequences for physical and mental health. In particular, one of the causal factors of dementia could be unwanted loneliness. This concludes the group of the Department of Psychiatry of the Autonomous University of Madrid, which statistically compares the effect of unwanted loneliness on dementia with the risk associated with diabetes or physical inactivity itself. In view of the fact that the existing evidence corresponds to the pre-covid stage, there must be even more involvement in this issue, aggravated by the passage of an unprecedented pandemic. Undesired loneliness problems have joined the proceeds of the restrictions motivated by cowardice. This fact has made a taboo reality transparent until recently, and what we need to talk about, study and approach from a cross-sectional perspective. But it's also true that, from major crises like this, most people get the best out of themselves, visualizing this issue. So the pandemic came, and with it the confinement, and in our buildings or communities we found ourselves with messages in the elevators where our neighbors and neighbors offered help to those who needed it most, doing the purchase or even going to the pharmacy, for example. The pandemic has brought out the best in most people. The cover-19 was that hard blow of reality that reminded us that we can't live apart from each other, and that individualism makes us less happy in the individual and less able in the face of collective challenges. Individualist tendencies imply an unintended feeling of loneliness for many people. The 126,000 older people living alone today in Galicia will increase intensely in the coming years, and all of this is linked to a substantial change in the new structure of family unity, since those who will be over 65 years old in 20 years, for example, will be generations with fewer children or direct families who may be pending them. More than ever we need to look at each other's eyes, to be interested in our neighbor or neighbor, to learn about their daily routine, their habits or routines, to speak again in the elevator or while our neighbour can tell us proud that he studies his grandson or grandson. The Autonomic Administration must take a great leap in this matter and face the challenge with courage and support in the knowledge of the university and research field, to make a good diagnosis and address the challenges. In Galicia, where the high life expectancy is a triumph of all, we must also expose ourselves if it is a triumph of society questioned by the lack of ties, as Dolores Puga wrote in CESIF's Foes Report. We recognize a problem that marks every day thousands of people in Galicia, and we address this pending matter, which, no doubt, is a complex challenge. From the Socialist Group we propose to the Government which supports the Galician Union to promote a specific Greek observatory on unwanted loneliness, coordinated with the university and research field, as well as with the social agents involved, to detect how many people affect this problem in Galicia, which are the profiles and characteristics, differences between urban and rural areas, and thus be able to have an X-ray of what is happening in this context. To promote an immediate Greek plan, adapted according to the results of the observatory, and managed with the collaboration of the local area and the social agents involved, providing the municipalities with the necessary economic resources to develop the plan, coordinated through the Galician Union, and in collaboration with all the representative forces in this House. The plan should be managed through multidisciplinary teams, local administrations must play a key role in initiating community plans adapted to each territory, which dynamic socialization and link the roots of close social contacts with the specific and common resources supported by technological advances, in which the multidisciplinary team itself shares this information, in order to ultimately avoid the most extreme outcome of this reality, as already noted: that of people who remain days, months and even years deceased in their homes without anyone being missed. Finally, run the power of prevention through alert and follow-up levels. Ladies and gentlemen, unwanted loneliness can walk from the hands of mental health problems, and it is not a minor issue, although some Members of the People's Party in Congress have sadly underestimated this matter, which I understand that those present here, still belonging to the same party, will be ashamed, and I understand that this should be explained publicly. [[Applause]] But the theme of mental health affects us and very much. Why? Because we are already from the countries that we consume most psychopharmaceuticals, that the coward has passed and will pass the bill emotionally, and we will see the dimension of the matter of time, and depending on how we act. That every day in our country ten people commit suicide and 200 try, so this is the first cause of unnatural death in our country, almost doubling traffic accidents. That unwanted loneliness is related to physical and mental health problems, and aggravated by the impact of the coward. So we broke the taboo, we recognized this reality, and we spoke clearly to reach a great deal in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u44	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor for Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We agree with the Socialist Party that this is an important issue, which affects many people in our country, the unwanted loneliness. Mrs Ortega, in her speech, referred to some of the data we know at the Galego Institute of Statistics, she spoke of those more than 238,000 people living alone in their homes, of which more than 122,000 are people over 65, and of them 62,73% are women. We must, necessarily, address the reality of unwanted loneliness in our country, too, with a gender perspective, like everything else. And the first thing we wanted to say, since BNG, is that, in fact, there was an agreement here that prompted Mrs Noela Blanco in 2019 by the Socialist Group, and that one of the first issues she called upon and demanded to the Council of Galicia was to draw up a census of people living in solitude, and those living in an unwanted loneliness, too, in order to be able to deepen much more in the profile of which are the social, economic and personal situations we have, within that huge number of people living alone. That's something that's pending, which has not yet been completed, which is known, by the board of Galicia, or which, at least, this House has not known so far. In fact, loneliness is one of the greatest risks -- says the World Health Organization -- for the deterioration of people, is a determining factor that favors the emergence of dependency situations. That's what the World Health Organization tells us, before, as Mrs Ortega said, of the coward-19, and it's a situation that actually gets worse, or about which this pandemic has come down, and specifically all the restrictions that have to be adopted in the context of this huge health crisis to curb the progress of the virus. Let us remember that at the beginning of 2020, when the health emergency and the state of alarm were decreed, for example, the day centres have been closed, social and community centres have also been closed, they have applied over the last year perimeter closures, some of the measures are still in force today, restrictions have been imposed on contact between non-cohabitants, there exists, and it is still in force today, this limitation to contact people we do not live with, and it has not been up to this second wave, and it has already entered into the year 2021, when the Board, in the various publications of the Official Journal of Galicia, found the possibility that people who live alone could be part of or joined a stable unit of coexistence even if they were not people who live every day. Today it's almost impossible, for example, to see our head doctor, because the queries are replaced by that telematic follow-up. Now what is presented to us, and if you want to install already as an absolute normality, are the video conferencings, in a country that, not to say, has a pretty bad and quite precarious connectivity, we don't often say the lack of ability and knowledge to cope with a video call, or use technology as a tool of our daily life to develop something as basic as being able to have a meeting with our doctor or head doctor. We've been doing from the BNG reference to this because it must also be analyzed with a perspective, with a look, which takes into account the pandemic as an element that has come to sink -- I insist -- in a reality that is not, in any case, new. That's why we agree with the Socialist Party that it is necessary to make an integral approach to this reality, of unwanted loneliness, but that must be, that integral approach, within a model of care that is conceived in its entirety. We always say it from BNG, we can't compartmentalize. I don't agree with something Mrs. Ortega said in this case. Indeed, the approach of unwanted loneliness passes through the home help service, through teleassisted service, through the House dining room, through the services that already exist. If we don't have to invent the wheel either, but we don't have to build on a model of care that, we insist on from the BNG and we have said it many times, it goes by adapting it to the reality that we have in our country, which is an increase -- and that's a reason for pride and joy -- of life expectancy, but that necessarily has to be focused on long-term care, that puts people in the center and their permanence as long as possible at home, and that's why we have to spread a whole network of strong public services, of proximity, and that is adapted -- I insist -- to the demographic reality that exists today in our country. [[Applause]] We must strengthen, improve and expand public services that already exist, social and community services, create networks, create communities, create tribes, that Manuel Maria would say. And especially in cities, breaking also many false myths, because sometimes I have the impression that we see ourselves collectively, as a people, as foreigners, as if we saw ourselves from outside. There's a much stronger, more community-based network of greater personal contact in villages than many times in these large blocks of buildings where we live 50 or 60 people, but we have no kind of relationship or contact between us. I said it here on one occasion, I feel less isolated in the Piquin River, with all the difficulties, than in the center of Lugo. We need to apply technology and innovation to this new model of contacts. Teleassisted is a key element, and today in our country there is a degree of coverage that is extreme and it is far from being able to suck no Government, the board of Galicia much less, of that degree of coverage. [[Applause]] In his reply to Mrs. Ortega's question, she spoke of the fact that today there are more than 7,000 people who have access to this teleassistation service. In a country like Galicia, where we have over 67,000 people with a degree of recognized dependence, 7,000 people! And it's just that, in addition, I want to think it was wrong, because in the memory corresponding to 2019 of the Social Policy Council there were 8,373 people, 1,300 fewer were saying here the advisor, and I want to think it was a mistake, a bad transcription to paper. Anyway, the degree -- I insist -- is absolutely empirical only if we consider those 67,000 people who today have a degree of recognized dependence. But insisting that there are many more people over 65 who live alone and are not yet dependent, and that's where to act. We have to have a vision that goes beyond reacting to the situations that we have just survived and that demand anticipation, which requires us, in this case, to make available to older people throughout their own evolution, to all of us, the different services that can be followed up, accompanied up and monitoring also to be able to prevent these dependency situations and to adapt services to the needs that as we're increasing in years we're going to need all of us and all of us. Strengthen and dignify the Home Help Service -- we always say -- that's a fundamental element for the new care model that must exist in our country, and to complete with other proximity services like that Home Dinner, which today comes -- and I return to the data given by the advisor in his inquiry -- to 1,600 users -- he said -- but it's that in 2018 -- three years ago -- it was 1,300. I mean, here the Galician Union is installed. I don't know if it's in inertia, autopilot or the most absolute comfort. You come here and so you can say 1,300, 1,200 people, that's enough; there's a self-comprehensibility for a political force, like the PP, who's been ruling the Board of Galicia for 12 years in this country, that I, what do you want me to tell them?, sometimes one doesn't know what to think about. I insist, there are over 67,000 people who have a degree of recognized dependency and users of the House Dining Service are 1,600 people. And I'd dare say, the lack of a more vague knowledge, more often, that the vast majority are surely men. We insist, we believe that this strategy is important, that it is important to address comprehensively the reality of unwanted loneliness in our country, and on that line there are some amendments that we present. We presented them as an amendment to replace them with the spirit of being able to reach an agreement and understanding, but in the end we changed so much the resolution that we understood that the right thing to do, too, by parliamentary dynamics itself, was to present a amendment of substitution, which goes in two directions. We agree with the need to create a collective work space, an interdisciplinary work space, which can provide information, which can improve our knowledge of this reality. But we believe that space, which is already a reality that exists today, where it would be best to create that working group, is within the Demographic Impulse Observatory. The own decree to create this observatory provides that ad hoc working groups may be set up to deal with specific issues, to which they may invite persons who are not permanently part of the observatory even if they are unable to vote. It seems to us that space, rather than disintegrating, more than separating, more than creating more and more spaces, is to exploit effectively and efficiently those we have. And that, in addition, they give very good results, which I think we'll all agree there. And secondly, what we propose is that if we were to use that strategy that announced the social policy advisor, that in the next few days -- I was saying at that time -- it would be a reality that would be public. Well, fifteen and nothing else happened if I heard about her. For it is referred to this House for its processing as soon as possible so it can be handled in the same way -- to understand us -- which has been done with the processing of the forest plan. That we can all make contributions, you come up, and also incorporate our proposals into that strategy, which, I insist, has to be and be part of that new model of care. He said -- and with this ending, president -- the advisor that this strategy was unique, absolutely unique -- he said -- in Spain. And these days, reviewing, indeed... it is worth that Barcelona is Catalonia, and Catalonia is not Spain, it is worth that Guipúscoa and Biscaia are Euskadi and Euskadi is not Spain, but Madrid! Madrid, ladies and gentlemen!, "Madrid is Spain within Spain," which says the new law of the intellectual of the right Díaz Ayuso. [[Applause]] Well, in fact, there are more places that are already working on this aspect and that the Galician Union, taking all that long, in the end what it's going to do is that Galicia, which should be vanguard, stays behind. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with something that I'm sorry to have to start -- I really say -- but, Mrs Ortega, you repeated today a data -- which you also facilitated fifteen days ago during the counsellor's questioning -- which said that the risk rate of poverty among the 65-year-olds in the last legislation had grown to 11 points, according to the IGE data. I went to the IGE page today, and I'd like to know how 7 tenths become 11 points, honestly, I'd like to know, unless there's another IGE in Galicia and I don't know it. Because it seems to me that when we talk about serious issues we must take them seriously, and it is very difficult to reach agreements and reach points of encounter if they directly distort data or use them in an absolutely tortureous way. And I'm sorry to have to start this way because in other issues I've heard here today I think we can all agree. And we agree that, after decades of unquestionable medical and scientific advances that have eradicated terrible diseases, it is our generation that is responsible for fighting a new pathology of a social character, which extends in such an important way that some experts do not doubt the qualification of the pandemic and of what we are talking about today, which is that unwanted loneliness. Because the truth is, in the last forty years, the average hope of the Greeks has increased in ten years. And I believe that this is a historic achievement that invites optimism to face, by the way, other apostles of catasfrofism, right? Because it is basically an achievement of the discoveries that have occurred in Western societies, in democratic societies, and that believe that Churchill adaxis when he said that democracy is the worst system of government designed by human beings, except for all the others. But like every historical achievement and every new reality, it needs a social adaptation to that new reality derived from these advances and the new problems associated with it. Because we have an older society, that's true, and we even have a somewhat paradoxical society, because, with the greatest media and possibilities of communication in human history, the feeling of loneliness increases every day. Sometimes -- Mrs. Rodil said so -- because of the depopulation in rural areas and the loss of neighbors and others, but sometimes also because of the dehumanization of urban borders. The Greek Government is fully aware of this reality and therefore aligns itself, working with the third sector and with the municipalities, in the development of a strategy against unwanted loneliness. A loneliness that... the pandemic of the coward has aggravated this feeling of loneliness in society, but it has also brought new teachings that have been incorporated into this strategy, which, as the advisor announced in her inquiry, will be presented in the coming days. A long, complex work that is not improvised according to a parliamentary initiative. I'm sorry to have you disillusioned but lately it's very fashionable the fallacy of false causality in the Greek Parliament, since ergo for this reason: as they announce the strategy after our initiative, strategy is the result of our initiative. And I have to lie, Mrs Ortega, because all the Members of this House know that the cock sings before dawn, but at least those of the People's Group, we also know that the sun doesn't come out because the cock sings. And I think we should all agree on this. I believe that the Greeks will understand the reasons for the delay in presenting this strategy because they understand that their priorities, those of the Greeks, must also be the priorities of government. And in these months the highest priority was the struggle against the pandemic; and in addition to the Social Policy Council, attention, the harsh situation experienced in some of the Greek residences because of the cowardice and the prevention work that prevented this situation in many other residences. But, man!, I regard this delay I have to say that others, right?, have also made similar announcements on similar dates and it does not seem to take the progress that if it leads the Greek Administration: "I announce that the Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare ends a national strategy against unwanted loneliness. And to put it into effect we have set up a forum with the third sector to finish defining the project," said Mrs. Orte, Director General of the Imserso, or November 28, 2018. Statements that were later ratified by Mrs. Carcedo, then Minister of Health: "The Imserso is developing two lines of work for the social dimension of ageing, the National Strategy for Active Ageing and the National Strategy for the Prevention of Undesired Loneliness", October 2019. Or in December 2019: "He has reported on the National Strategy to Combat Undesirable Loneliness of Older Persons. To prepare the ministry, it wants to have all those entities and associations of older people that relate to the question of loneliness." I pledge that it has also been ratified by President Sánchez: "and, lastly, we are going to act on a growing problem in our streets that affects our older people uniquely, and it is to adopt a strategy against unwanted loneliness," investment speech, January 4, 2020. Home!, the statements made by leaders of the Galician People's Party are much more recent. But I have to say, even if the pandemic had been delayed, because we had to focus on the pandemic problems, that the emergency did not make us forget about such important issues as to design this strategy, because it was a commitment from the election program of the People's Party of Galicia, because it was set as a priority in President Feijóo's investment discourse and because it is about to be realized, as announced by the Social Policy Advisor in his appearance of the past Plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about a strategy that emerges from the collaboration of many people and organizations. And I think you'll understand that, with regard to them, we're not going to condition or distort your work by setting, with few days in advance, possible measures that, we understand, should be valued and agreed upon by your actors. And what if I tell you is that, after listening to them and listening to their reasons and proposals, I think I am reasonably convinced that the strategy will satisfy them fully, and do not doubt that, if they have new contributions to make to it, they will have occasion to do it. This is a strategy based on five main lines, five lines shared by the Galician Union, the representatives of the third sector, and also by representatives of the Greek municipalism, and we hope that they will also be shared by you: prevention, detection, intervention, visibility and cooperation between different administrations. If, as I hope you have the desire to collaborate to improve the strategy and the instruments derived from it, I will allow myself, with all modesty, to suggest a scope of collaboration, which I think would be very desirable for all of us, because we could try to get the Government of the State to contribute to that strategy too, at least until I make a presentation of that national strategy which has been announced long before the Board, but of which we still know nothing. And as I know that this week President Feijóo is going to receive Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Caballero, because I think it would be interesting that at that meeting it would be a right collaborative commitment to claim the 200 million EVI that we are looking forward to receiving the Greeks, the 170 million of the incentives for fulfilling the economic goals, the more than 100 million in employment policies, or the more than 36 million we have lost from what we were dealing with in the hidden fund. Because I think it would be an interesting way to free resources that we could devote to this strategy and to fighting unshared loneliness. If they think this is not the instrument, we could try to jointly claim that 50% of the State contribution to the dependency, because it would be an important injection that we would receive annually, these 200 million less than we saw receiving, 170 if, indeed, if the vice-president's commitment -- ex-president -- who compromised that contribution. Let's hope so. And if not, I also agree to claim a specific game while this national strategy is not approved. If this happens I'm willing to accept lessons about I invite and you pay, but while they will allow me to be somewhat skeptical about that kind of lesson. And finally, because we are and were asked to stand on the unfortunate statements of a Member in a very unfortunate chascar, indeed in Congress, to say that we regret them, as we are not going to regret them! We would regret them as much as we would like you to regret that if you repeatedly qualified as President Ayuso, or if any Member of the House ridiculed Mrs Levi's illness, would you not? I believe that we should abandon partyism, not short-lived races, and show a common stance. Our regret here remains explicit, I hope you add yourself to mine, which seems just as fair as what you claim. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u49	Thank you very much, President. Of course, go ahead and condemn any kind of disqualifications that don't come up to the story and don't reinforce the exercise that politics has to have. I would also like to make it clear that I am very concerned that the representative of the People's Party is increasingly hard on poor Rajoy, who is going through such hard times, criticizing this real 2012 decree that cut the assumptions for autonomous communities in the Dependency Act. It's getting tougher, really. It's just that this government, by the way, has ended that... this is said by the Association of Social Service Managers and Managers. [[Applause]] That's in writing. So go ahead and inform yourself. I've just heard the appearance of the Infrastructure Advisor, who strongly criticized the paralysis of infrastructures and transports because of the coward, and now comes the People's Party representative to justify a topic like this paralyzing by the pandemic. I don't believe, on a subject like this, that it paralyzes by the pandemic, when the pandemic is part of the matter itself! [[Applause]] It's funny, it's curious that they talk about this intrigue of progress in this strategy that seems to be a state secret, because the representatives of municipalism and the third sector know nothing about any progress. No, they don't know anything about any progress. [[Applause]] The last meeting was over a year ago and nothing was said. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this matter can't be used to confront, it must serve to unite, to wake up and to work. Undesirable loneliness derives from many actions but, above all, from inactions by a Greek government, which, when they close schools in the countryside, such as that of Baamonde, has recently become more lonely in their villages. When they vote against building residential care centers in rural areas most affected by depopulation, as we did weeks ago in our proposal for Petin, it makes older people have to leave their village in search of care services that they don't have there, which I call "emotional relocation," because they have to leave the place where the bonds are, where is the history of a person's life, for lack of services. As when they cut off health services, as they relocate jobs in rural areas, as the German Government allows in cases like Iberdrola in the Street. They also become their own emotional relocation, because the people are becoming less and less inhabited and thus contribute to the loneliness that people manifest when they stay in those people. Or as when the Government of Greece announces a law of demography but soon continues to close schools in rural areas, voting against increasing services in unpopulated places or letting jobs go to other autonomous communities. And the most striking in this context, the most striking in this context, how do they announce a strategy for unwanted loneliness when almost two years have passed and nothing has been done at all? [[Applause]] We need concrete plans in urban areas too, where individualism is still much harder. These facts not only come from a lack of action -- it's the strategy of a government that, by the way, has abilities and competences -- but also, they absolutely ruin the image of the exercise of politics. Because the ads and headlines that only remain in that and never go into practice contribute to denigrating the role we have as citizens' representatives. And that affects all of us, including our own citizenship, which loses confidence in us. It's not serious to do anything in almost two years. And because of an interpellation by the Socialist Party in this sense, say that in a few days the strategy for unwanted loneliness will be announced exclusively, while those directly involved in the issue, such as the Fegamp or the Gaga Society of Gerontology, for example -- for it named the third sector -- have no knowledge of the matter. And the counsellor himself in the interrogation has only talked about services that have been in the past for years and that most are part of the so-called Dependency Law. By the way, the nationalist representative, of course we agree, will not agree with the services of the so-called Dependency Law if we were the ones who created the Dependency Law, the Socialist Party, would be missing more! [[Applause]] So less headlines and more reality. We need to create an observatory of experts in this matter, we have a very high-level university and a lot of research human capital. This observatory has to mark the guidelines and action based on studies to be done, and thus determine the plan for unwanted loneliness in Galicia that determines the path to shorten this reality, let us make it possible! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u50	With regard to the amendment, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u51	No, we don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u52	Okay, thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next motion. Motion by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mr. Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the economic and social crisis in the region of Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u53	This motion was amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Member, Pablo Arangüena Fernández, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this table the following amendment to this motion:Amendment of additionIn the resolution part of the initiative a new item 4 should be added, which will have the following content:"4. For the economic promotion and reindustrialization of the territory of Ferrolterra and the neighbouring districts of Eume and Ortegal:- Design and develop a medium- and long-term economic promotion and reactivation plan of the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal to compensate for the economic impact of the pandemic and to reactivate the productive tissue, including:a)The diagnosis of the possibilities and investment opportunities in the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal in harmony with the business fabric, the logistical possibilities and the needs of the market, in cooperation and dialogue with the representative entities of the enterprise, the companies themselves, the unions, the university, local and state administrations and civil society.b)The presentation of projects rooted in the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal to opt for the funds Next Generation".)]] Mr. Fernández Alfonso has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u54	Good morning to all and to all. We bring back the crisis of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal comarcas after an interpellation in the previous plenary with which we failed to get the Galician board to give the slightest explanation about the plans or projects it has for these comarcas. We resumed the debate, but now in a proactive format. We insist on dealing here in the Greek Parliament about the situation of these three regions, but now, as I said, presenting a number of concrete proposals for the reactivation and reindustrialization of the territory. Of course, the pandemic has affected the regions of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal in the same sectors as in the rest of the country: hospitality, tourism, commerce or culture need a real rescue plan in these areas as in all others. But there are three sectors or three areas that, in the judgment of the BNG, have a specific weight in the economy of the territory which is absolutely decisive. In fact, the demographic decline in the regions coincides exactly with the beginning of the permanent restructuring of the shipbuilding sector since the 1980s. A period in which, we remember, the comarcas lost four times more population than the rest of Galicia. The so-called conversion, which has actually been and remains a cluster of productive prohibitions as unknown in any other territory of the Spanish State, has a defining characteristic that makes it particularly serious. It was first imposed and perpetuated during the last forty with the agreement of the main Spanish political and trade union forces: PP, PSOE, Commissions and UGT, the four legs of the Iberian street! Production bans in the Ferrol River that favored the development of the naval sector and the maritime technology industry in other territories of the Spanish State but, above all, in other territories of the European Union which today, in the midst of a crisis, are holding onto a sector that is strategic to them, injecting billions of public money to keep it fleeting. The district of Ferrol today needs to break with those agreements, switch to screen and build a new big deal on the naval sector. An industry that has three very particular characteristics, very marked, which, in combination, reinforces its potential to be a priority objective of any government that has to face a crisis situation like the one we are living in. First. It could give occupation to thousands of workers and workers. There is no other industry or sector with the same capacity. Pretend or tell Ferrol society that the loss of jobs in the naval sector can be compensated by encouraging the arrival of other companies is to lie to him shamelessly. Today there is no real alternative or comparable to the naval sector in jobs. Second. It integrates into its value chain a complementary industry of many small and medium-sized enterprises, many of them local, and is therefore a sector with an exceptional capacity to promote changes in the production system, to promote the famous energy and technology transitions. And third and last, it's public property. You don't have to look for, encourage or subsidize companies that are today and tomorrow aren't like Polygal or Siemens-Gamesa. The money and public resources invested in the sector will be the benefit of the public heritage and with much more guarantees of permanence for the future, with much more guarantees of consolidation than any other project we can find. This is the great deal that the Ferrol district needs about the naval sector: bet on building from what we already have, of what we know works. Enjoying the synergies with military construction, technologically more advanced, as well as the international reputation gained in that market, as well as repairs, to boost the naval sector in the Ferrol River, recovering activities and diversifying. A Ferrol creek that is today an example of abandonment by all administrations with direct or indirect powers over the river. The Sea Council, with exclusive competences over shellfish in the rivers, had been waiting for CEDEX, an agency of the Spanish Government, to study the situation of the river, when he knew, or should know, that this body had no instructions to carry out any study. So the cheerleaders, tired of waiting without answers and no solutions, did what the board should have done a long time ago: summon all the bodies that have something to say about Ferrol's laugh at a meeting. They called the council itself, the Harbour Authority, the Galician Waters, the MITECO, the Development. And at that meeting they explained what the three confrries in Ferrol's stream -- and this is an important fact to take into account -- they understand that it must be done to solve the situation of collapse in which they are found, to start by something as simple as conducting an integral study of the river, a study of water, currents and sediments, especially sediments. A study that must count, at its trial, to have all guarantees, with the participation of Graña Marine Biology Station, a scientific entity at the University of Compostela, with great prestige in the laughter and among all the agencies, consultants or laboratories working in the sector. This study will mean not only a diagnosis of the current situation, of the cause of the problems, but it could also mean a first addition of recommendations, of actions to be carried out. Actions that will, of course, require political will and impulse, and economic resources to materialise and end the Ferrol River that other economic engine fully integrated into the green deal that are supposed to promote the next generation funds. It is therefore urgent to carry out this initial study of the river in order to be able to carry out the entire regeneration project later. The situation caused in the village of the Bridges by the announcement of the closure of the thermal in Endesa is the third area that the governments and the Greek political forces should tackle with urgency, ambition and height of sight. The history of the brown lignite mine and the thermal power plant of the Bridges is the example of how the exploitation of the energy resources of a territory can be carried out on the basis of interests entirely unrelated to that territory, to the point that at the time those resources are exhausted and investments are needed to make technological changes in the power plant, everyone looks to the other side, and stops on the village and the region the threat of an unaltered actual closure or transition of any kind. Together it defends, at least by mouth, the viability of a biofuel project for the power plant, but without adding figures or allocating budgetary resources that can give you some meaning, which can clarify what we're really talking about. And as he evasively answers the questions that we put here in Parliament about the plans or projects he has for the village of the Bridges, if he has any, he dismisses the work for the implementation of the fair transition agreement, the instrument designed by the Government of the State to reindustrialize the territories affected by the closures of thermal power plants and that, while in other territories he already has ongoing projects, such as in Asturias or Aragon, in the case of the Bridges he didn't even begin to elaborate. BNG's proposals for the village of the Bridges are geared towards ensuring the implementation of industrial alternatives linked to energy production, but above all promoting a qualitative leap from being mere energy producers to also provide technology, i.e. taking advantage of the installation of the new wind power, as well as the granting of uses from the central energy evacuation point, to ensure the implantation and consolidation of a technologically advanced industrial fabric. Three sectors, three areas, as we said, in which both the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia have competence, have capacity for action and, above all, have the responsibility to agree and act together. The energy sector, the naval sector and the marine sector of the Ferrol River, sectors in crisis today, have enough potential to reverse the demographic decline of the regions and to be the main factors in their economic reactivation, always, of course, that there is political will. That is why the agreement of the Greek political forces is fundamental in this regard, in order to be able to then build the other agreements necessary in the field of different governments. Nothing else for now, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Alfonzo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the districts of Ferrolterra, but also Eume and Ortegal, have been affected by the loss of productive tissue since the industrial conversion of the 1980s. The loss of employment was the hand of the loss of population, which rounds the 25,000 people in Ferrol, without parallel in cities of its size at that time. Before the pandemic, the Endesa company's decision to close the thermal power plant at the Bridges, due to the enormous increase in the cost of CO2 emission rights on the European market -- a decision that is still pending from the evidence to replace coal with other fuels -- already involved a serious problem for the economy of the area, aggravated by the closure or problems in which many other smaller companies, such as Poligal and a long and so forth. But the economic crisis associated with the effects of the current pandemic, with an unprecedented fall in GDP since the Civil War, implies a new turn to the business difficulties of the area that will most likely generate an increase in unemployment that is already occurring in the area. As an example, the announcement of the closure of the Gamesa factory in Somozas, which aims to relocate to Portugal, as they have already done over the past few hundred companies throughout Galicia. A situation that, despite the passiveness of the Union, had been afraid for years, because the company had not affected the investments needed to adapt and modernize its production. The general strike that has recently taken place is evidence of the greatest concern of the region for the economic and industrial situation and the future of the area, aggravated by the problems of the naval, pending the beginning of the manufacture of the F-110 frigates, which was committed by the progressive Government and which, with 4,325 million euros, will involve the largest industrial investment in Galician history -- which, of course, the PP governments had put in a drawer -- but which has periods of development that do not solve the current situation. It must be considered that the situation in the naval sector is extremely complex and complicated for reasons other than any government, and, being already very complicated before the pandemic, after the pandemic it is much more complicated still by the fall of the maritime transport of goods and passengers and by economic uncertainty, and by the government's budgetary difficulties to charge military ships in the current crisis and global pandemic. All that makes orders cut drastically in both civil and military construction. On the other hand, when the government of the state changed, in 2018, Navantia was in a situation of cause of dissolution, that is, technically broken, so you left it technically broken. With the particularity that, being a public-owned company, year after year, the state itself injected capital into it the reason that, on average annually, 200 million euros and precisely in 2017 Navantia recorded the greatest losses in its history, 297 million euros. [[Applause]] That's what left Rajoy's government in Navantia. In December 2018, to deal with this technical breakdown situation, the current government signed the 2018-2022 Strategic Plan, according to the representatives of the workers and with the objective of achieving the viability of the company, maintaining activity in all centres, modernizing processes and adapting the company to the needs of the market. But that's not enough in the current situation, worsened by the pandemic, and all administrations, all administrations must be involved in getting Navantia forward and the rest of the economy in the area. We must remember that industrial policy and economic promotion are the exclusive competences of the Galician Union, according to Article 30 of the Galician Autonomy Statute, as I have repeated on several occasions, although they have not been exercised in the last twelve years, and their inaction in industrial policy has much to do with current problems. As for Ferrol's creek, where not many years ago over 600 people have come to sea and therefore has a great marine potential, it is today under minimum, not reaching 70 people who can swim sporadicly and completely insufficient to obtain a minimum of subsistence. In recent times, the situation has deteriorated to such an extent that the patterns of the three river friars calculated, in September last year, at 90 % of the plum production decline, considering that the survival of the mariner in the river is directly in question, affected by reasons that the Union, inexplicably, is unable to define or diagnose, since it was first spoken of the perkinsus parasite but then recognized to the mariners themselves that there may be other causes, and that, incredibly, the Union has no idea of what is going on in Ferrol's creek despite its responsibility, incompetence and incompetence. And that is why the seafarers have been asking for time to do a comprehensive study to find out what's going on in the river, a study that has already committed to the 8th Commission, by the way, the initiative of the PSdeG with unanimity of the other parliamentary groups. But Junta still doesn't do this study. So serious is the problem that had to be the Commonwealth of Ferrol Town Councils, which it doesn't fit to do, who recently did a 14 point sample in the stream including those points at which Junta said the perkinsus parasite was present, and it turns out they didn't find any trace of the perkinsus or any other parasite. So Junta has to look for another explanation of the decline in the river and also have to compensate economically for mariners who have no resources because they don't have to waltz. And all the competitions about the laugh are from the Board of Galicia, which therefore has the responsibility, and can't circumvent it, as usual, nor deny reality, because reality is palmary and evident in Ferrol's laugh. As for the Bridges, contrary to the machaconically repeats the PP, falsely lying, the Government has nothing to do with the intention of closing the power plant, which is a decision taken by the company, resulting from the enormous increase in the cost of the CO2 emission rights market, a European market which certainly promoted its MEP, Mr Arias Cañete, years before Pedro Sánchez arrived at Moncloa, and which increased from EUR 8 per tonne in 2018 to EUR 25 per tonne in 2019. And, as the workers know and recognize the managers of the company, that and not the other was the reason that the Bridges had been out of the market, nothing to do with any government decision and that, on the contrary, they are forcing the company to do all the tests in the world to try to keep the central in operation and put on the table fair transition plans, which have to be taken advantage of by the Administration on foot of territory, which is the Unity of Galicia, which cannot be kept by cross-arms, waiting for solutions to fall from Madrid, because that's who has the competition. The design of the structure to the fair transition is done, the money is there, but who has to move is the Unity of Galicia, with the rest of the administrations, obviously. To finish, the Next Generation funds imply a unique and unrepeatable opportunity to compensate for the economic effects of the pandemic, while modernizing our productive fabric. These funds involve billions of euros for Galicia to bet on the productive economy, not for speculating four gentlemen in friendship capitalism mode. And what we ask of the Board is that it is involved, that it leaves the opacity and is transparent in the projects it intends to finance. Transparency that has so far been equal to zero or below zero, and that does not bet by the worst corner in what seems to be installed since the Socialist Party arrived in the State Government. It exercises its competences in industrial policy and economic promotion, which are many and very broad, and can do much more with them than it has done in the last eleven years, especially in Ferrolterra. Ferrolterra well deserves an agreement and the involvement of all administrations, on that line goes the amendment we tabled. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u58	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Many months ago, since the People's Party in Galicia, we've been alerting ourselves to the difficult situation in the district of Ferrolterra. The lack of workload in the naval sector, the early closure of the thermal power plant of the Bridges; the march of Siemens Gamesa of Spain and, therefore, of Galicia, for the loss of confidence in the energy policy of the Government of Spain; the delicate situation of electrointensive industry, which affects not only Alcoa but also companies located in the district of Ferrolterra, which have their future in town; the loss of port traffic resulting from the closure of the thermal power plant, and the uncertainties that exist also in San Cibrao... ultimately, a situation which deteriorates for moments before the inaction of the Government of Spain, on whom the public yard of the Ferrol River depends, and on whom, Mr. Arangüena, the energy policy that governs the future of many Welsh industries, energy policy which is the exclusive competence of the Government of Spain. So all of his argumentation falls like a castle of naipes, energy policy that governs Galician industrial policy. It certainly surprises us that today's motion brings us the Nationalist Block of Wales. It's wrong of the door, Mr. Fernández Alfonso, an error which is intended, better said, an error which is malicious. You intend to blame the Galician Junta for the situation in which the Ferrol naval sector is located or for the closure of the bridge thermal power plant, when you know perfectly well that all responsibility, in both cases, in the lack of workload in Navantia and the closure of the bridge thermal power plant, is from the Government of Spain. An intentional mistake, or malicious mistake, because you well know that the responsibility of the Board in both decisions is none, none. More likely, BNG has more blame than we do, both for the lack of workload in the ferrolan naval and for the closure of the thermal power plant. Because it wasn't you who made the decision, but it was you who became President of the Government who made that decision. You were the ones who made president of Government Pedro Sánchez, with his vote -- we remember him well -- that pact between Ana and Adriana that was going to save Galicia from all the evils, a pact that now seems to be that they deny and deny as if they had nothing to do with Mr Sánchez. [[Applause]] But the reality is that it was you who have appointed the President of the Government to whom the project of the F110 frigates has stopped since 2018, who have appointed the President of the Government to whom you have decided to close the thermal power stations in Spain in advance, namely that of the Bridges, 20 years before when it was the case. It was you who made the President of the Government who decided to manage the Next Generation funds that we claimed for The Bridges, so that they would be managed in an opaque manner, without any kind of transparency from the Moncloa, and disregarding the needs of the territories. And now you come to this plenary with this motion, trying to share blames to try to dilute the responsibilities, which you also have, by action and by default. Not only did they give the Government presidency to the Socialist Party in exchange for nothing, they also gave the mayor of Ferrol to the Socialist Party itself with whom you co-governed in many municipalities and in several provincial deputies. And you're now playing around in this whole, this motion with the intention of doing what they do, sharing blame, and trying to get rid of the equation as if it had nothing to do with you. The responsibility for the crisis that goes through the district of Ferrol is its partners in government, in municipalities, in deputies and also in the Government of Spain. Let me go forward with two central ideas of my intervention: first of all, you can't urge the Galician Union to do what you're already doing -- I mean the sanitation of Ferrol's stream --. And the second idea, secondly, cannot be urged to do what it is competent to do to the Government of Spain. And I'm referring to the search for a workload for public shipyards, the state, or the decision of the Government of Spain to close the thermal power stations 20 years before when they corresponded. On The Bridges, our position is clear: we defend the continuity of the power plant through the use of biofuels, but you have to recognize that you have supported the closure, the early closure, and that this power plant, the company, has made the necessary investments to continue operating until 2035, and that it has already done them, and that it was the Government, through the tax route, as it put out the thermal power-producing market power plants. Changing the competition between gas and coal, they expelled them from the market, because if it were C02, why don't they lock up the rest of Europe's power stations? It's more, they're opening some. So, Mr. Arangüena, don't come to this full of lies, energy policy is a state competition. And, therefore, I understand, Mr. Fernández, that you don't trust the Government of Sanchez, but you have to understand that state competition is not an autonomous competition. With regard to the sanitation of the Ferrol River, I have to tell you that the commitment of the German Government is total and absolute. We have invested EUR 115 million in the sanitation of the southern margin of the Ferrol River and the entire purification system, which is in service and in full operation. That the northern bank of the river was assumed by the state by a popular government, by the way, with an investment of 270 million euros. On this north bank, the Malata connection was pending, currently running by the Galician Union, with an investment of seven million euros. And there was also Neda's connection, with the northern EDAR, which corresponds to the Neda Town Hall, and it remained pending because the Neda Town Hall did not want to add to the sanitation. And you know why you didn't want to add? Because of the lack of understanding of the councils of Ferrol and Narón when the management and operation costs of this EDAR are shared. So once the councils of Ferrol, Naron and Neda are in agreement, the Council of Galicia is at hand, but that agreement does not exist today. With regard to the naval sector, by the way, Mr Arunguena, that report, that report was a commitment from the government delegate two years ago, do you know where the report is? It doesn't exist, because the government delegate did not do so in Galicia, the Socialist Party delegate. With regard to the public naval sector of the Ferrol River, they know above all what our position is: they are public shipyards, state dependents, dependents of the Government of Spain, shipyards specialized in the construction of warships for the Spanish Navy, and, once designed and manufactured, built for the armies of third countries allies. That's the reality of the Ferrolterra naval, which the BNG so upset. You, who always seems to them little what the Galician People's Party Board does, the truth is they look to the other side, and they look for bad excuses to avoid criticizing the socialist government, when that government is the one who is to blame. I cannot accept many of the veiled criticisms of the People's Party, all of the ship's reconversions that have increased the productive capacities of the shipyards in the Ferrol River, which have led them, pushed them, the Socialist Party since the Government of Spain. We reopened the old Astano and wagered for the diversification that it assumes and represents the marine wind, activity, by the way, that was criticized from those benches and was a reason for ridicule. There's the Session Diary to corroborate it. And now we're equal to claims that we've always been, we were, too, when the People's Party was ruling in Spain, also when ruling the People's Party in Spain. I am not receiving the delays of the F-110 frigates, achievable to this Government, which has been in government since June 2018 and we are in March 2021. It's not to receive the abandonment of the yard 4.0 project, it's not to be received, and they have stopped it, it's more, they don't want to execute it, and BNG knows it and the unions know it. They're not willing to invest 400 million euros as it was scheduled on the railway yards. Where are those funds? Why didn't you invest the 250 million euros budgeted in Rajoy's last budget in 2018, nor in 2019, nor in 2020? It is not to be accepted that socialists refuse to implement the construction of a BAN, as we have demanded since the district of Ferrolterra, which would guarantee employment for 700 workers in the auxiliary industry, who may lose their jobs in the coming weeks. It is not to be accepted that BNG is against military construction for ideological issues, because that is against our own history and to deny the experience accumulated for decades. It's not to be received that they are now against the Windar-Navantia UTE, which has returned Astano to activity. And it's not a receipt because, when you ruled the Council of Galicia, you're going to privatise Astano and hand him over to Barriers and, therefore, why are they now refusing public-private collaboration? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not here to reproach you for your hemorrhage with respect to the naval sector, but if I ask you to be brave and to raise your voice against what's happening now. Next Thursday, the Senate Industry Commission will discuss an initiative that we will also discuss in this plenary: the demand for the construction of a BAN...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u60	...on the yards of the Ferrol River. We knew that in Ferrol we are all in favor, here we were all in favor, except for the Socialist Party, which was inhibited. At the last plenary session they changed their vote and supported the demand for that boat, but now, this week, we're going to do a double job, we're going to debate here and see what the Socialist Party votes for, and we're also going to debate in the Senate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u62	And we'll see what the Socialist Party does there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u64	...and then we'll talk and see who's engaged to the naval sector and the county of Ferrolterra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u66	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u67	Mr. Fernández Alfonzo has the floor for the motion's group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u68	Very good again. You're going to be unwilling, Mr. Tellado, and you're going to have to listen to lies here every time you talk about Ferrol, the naval sector, the Bridges! [[Applause]] Look, I don't make veiled criticisms of the Galician Union or the People's Party, explicit causes, you are responsible, by action and default, for the dramatic crisis situation that the district of Ferrol is experiencing today. [[Applause]] The proposals that the BNG brings to this Parliament are concrete proposals to revive the economy, to re-industrialize the region and to re-establish the Ferrol River. They are proposals to provide democratic content for this reactivation. They are proposals -- as I said -- concrete and are, in addition, fully consistent with the guidelines that are being put forward from the European Union and from the different governments, from the Government of the Spanish State and from the Council of Galicia itself. Proposals consistent with the new energy transition paradigms and technology transition. Proposals, all of them, which share the vocation to place our producer sectors in a position to compete in the global context of a 21st century marked by the new demands of environmental sustainability and social cohesion. And Ferrol's comarca, like none of the other Galician comarcas, brings together a set of natural and industrial energy resources, and also brings together an experience in all of them that places us at the very best of positions to make that escape from the crisis for all. A fair and gale out of the crisis, which depends, for it to become reality, on being something more than empty speeches and manifestations of content, on the degree of involvement and commitment that the Greek political forces are able to show and achieve around concrete projects and proposals such as these that the BNG brings here today for its debate and vote. Making a diagnosis of the economic and social situation and correcting the revenue to overcome the demographic decline requires, above all, that we be able to leave behind prejudice, leave behind old loyalties with expired agreements that have so badly done us, and put the interests of the people we represent before any other consideration. We need to break down the restrictions of the naval sector and put Navantia working on all the segments of activity in which today there can be demand, recovering, empowering and integrating all the activities that historically took place in the Ferrol River, from civil construction to repairs, through a turbine factory that has to be basic to us in the new markets that new demands of sustainable maritime mobility are already opening up. We need a new model of exploitation of our energy resources to set industry, wealth and employment in the country. We need to bet on R+D+i, to give that qualitative leap and turn from being mere energy producers to also providing technology. In the village of the Bridges we have every chance to make that transition successfully. We need a clean and productive stream, which is the basis of a sustainable maritime sector capable of boosting sectors such as the food industry, based on quality and proximity, and a service sector equally linked to the protection of our natural wealth. There are examples in other countries of projects linked to these same sectors that are already under way. We can't stay behind. France and Norway are already promoting, for example, the construction of hydrogen powered ships. Sweden, Austria and again France already have hydrogen plants running with different technologies and purposes, some to feed ironic steels similar to that of Megasa in Narón. In the Spanish state, Euskadi is leading research into new hydrogen technologies. Galicia can't stay behind. We count on resources and experience in Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal. The political will is lacking, the agreement of the political forces present here, which we are looking for today with this motion. A basic agreement to build and get these other agreements and support from both the companies and the different governments involved. Since BNG we claim our right to be ourselves the protagonists and the protagonists of our future, to put before anything else our right to dispose of ours as best we can, to work on our land and to profile the path we want to walk, without accepting taxes and designs from others. We have -- I insist -- resources and experience, we have the possibilities, and we have today the pressing need, the urgent need, to put those resources, that experience to produce. How good it would be for a government that wanted to rule!, a Greek government that wasn't a simple, bad caricature. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u69	Regarding the amendment, do you accept it? Thank you. We suspended the session until 6:00.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u70	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of mental health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u71	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(The Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group (BNG), at the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, tabled the following amendment to this motion:Additional Amendment AddendumAdd to paragraph 1 (b) the following text to the end:"Create within one year of child-child care hospital units in all health areas."Additional amendmentAdd in paragraph 1 (d) after: "...integrate to...", the following text: "unional organizations representatives of workers' organizations, present at the sectoral table," Add a new paragraph e. in paragraph 1 with the following text: "e. Make a budgetary change to target in the year 2021 a minimum amount of 21 million, and the same amount in the following three budgets, to invest the announced 84 million euros for the mental health plan pos COVID 19, 2020-2024."Replace point 2 with the following text:"2. Promote the connection between mental health services and Primary Care, with the distribution of reference areas for each mental health team. Creation in the Primary Care Health Centers of Psychologist Squares@s clinic@s, occupational therapists, speech therapists, worker@s social... that enables the creation of multidisciplinary teams and give full attention."]] [[(The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia through its Spokesman and at the initiative of Mrs Encarnation Amigo Díaz, at the heart of the provisions of Article 151.2 and in agreement with the House's Rules of Procedure, submits to that Bureau the following amendment to this motion: Replacement amendment:The text of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges Galician Union to:1o.-Develop effectively the Galego Mental Health Plan by compromising, at least, to:a) Develop a plan for recruiting mental health professionals from mental health professionals in Sergas to the state media in all categories of clinicians, workers/social workers, nurses specialist in mental health care, technical assistants and occupational therapists, which involves the creation of 120 new practices before the end of 2021 and which is being extended to provide the volume of mental health professionals in Sergas to the state media in all categories in an effective way to the future of the health of 2024.go. Improve the connection and coordination between mental health services and primary care, through the figure of the optional consultant, with the recruitment of seven clinical psychologists, one for each health area, as set out in the plan.3. Take up the report of the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture and carry out all the measures and recommendations that are indicated to reverse the serious problems identified in the next 6 months, subsequently requesting a further evaluation of the MNP itself or independent external audit that values the compliance and the situation of the centre and the people there entered.4. To establish a dialogue with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to assess the mechanisms for reaching a progressive integration agreement in the SERGAS of mental health services that provide services dependent on local administrations, to order this attention and which depends on the competent body in health care, which is the autonomous administration."]] To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u72	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Two out of three people who have a mental health problem throughout their lives will not be able to be cared for in the public health system. Two out of three, why? In Galicia because we have the worst ratio of professionals, in any mental health category, the worst ratio of professionals across Spain. We have an average wait for a mental health appointment longer than four months, appointments that last about 45 minutes, never arrive at an hour, every more than four months. What's causing this? First of all, it causes us to say, sadly, that mental health is not a right of health care guaranteed today in Galicia's public health system, it is not. In fact, it's a privatized system because, when any one of us thinks of looking to a psychologist -- like a dentist, like a physiotherapist -- he never thinks of the public system, it's a de facto privatized system. And that implies that mental health care in this country is today a privilege and not a right and, therefore, we have a serious problem. It's not a reality today, it's a reality that's been living for years. What's the cause? It causes us to have to change the system so that doctors and primary care doctors have to do in many cases work that would not correspond to them and that they or they themselves believe -- as is normal -- that must be in mental health services. What causes this scenario, therefore? It's too much to go to issues like pharmacology. We are the first autonomous community of Spain in consumption of anxiolytics, we are the second autonomous community of Spain in consumption of antidepressants, we are, in the last decade, the autonomous community that leads to the sad suicide rate in Spain: they die in Galicia each year twice as many people as in a suicide that is caused by a traffic accident. We have a system that does not meet the needs that we have in mental health, and this is a very serious problem, because mental health is true that it has usually been hidden, hidden. Socially it was always a taboo that still with so many difficulties starts to break, it's a certain grey space where often it doesn't even talk. Culturally, there have been real atrocities with regard to mental health. That little sister concept we must overcome and we're doing it wrong, wrong, we don't have enough resources. And more often, the victims are blamed because it seems that one has the right even to have an infarction or to break a leg but not to feel hurt emotionally, and there seems to be no such right. And it's not a right that no one wants to exercise, but we have a right to feel bad and have a mental health service that we don't have in Galicia today. [[Applause]] After the debate we had with the councillor, after so many debates that we have been discussing in this Parliament about mental health, there are some issues that are repeated, they are repeated so much that they are systematic promises, more or less, once a year. They arrive almost like Christmas, repeat and promise, but at the end of the year they become engaged. The best way the Greek Government can promise the same things for years is not to fulfill them, it's a clever enough strategy to promise a lot but rather clumsy enough to solve the problems. What we bring here is a broad proposal -- you know it -- and certainly ambitious, but it does nothing but collect commitments already made. The problem is why...? -- with some shade, right, we can debate it, why do we bring most of the commitments we make here today to approve and are already announced? Well, because they're advertised, but they're never met, and that's the problem. Personal announcements are made to solve the problem that we are the autonomous community with a lower personal ratio but never met. Children-juvenile hospitalization units are announced, never met. The psychogerontology unit was announced in Ourense but never met. Improvements are announced for the Conxo centre but never met. A change of mental health care model has been announced but is never met. And that's why we bring this initiative today, why? Because we hear again the same commitments, the same promises, the same mental health plan that's been promised in Galicia for years! -- 2012, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020 and again 2021 --, promised substantially. The People's Party promises very well but it does very wrong and this is also a serious problem. What do we propose? We propose a question, from our point of view, real, honest but ambitious; and the three questions may arise. First of all, on resources, an increase in resources. We're aware that it's impossible to be able to put all human resources -- it's very difficult -- so that we're in the media -- we're not asking for anything exceptional -- from the Spanish set at the end of this year, but we have to assume the commitment to do so at the end of the legislation. And we can, for that, we must, this year, compromise an increase in squares, which is what we propose. We propose to put into operation this child-child hospitalization unit in Vigo, which was promised here by the Popular Parliamentary Group -- at its time, its health spokesperson -- in 2015, which was promised by Mr Feijóo in 2016, which was promised in 2018 by the counsellor, in 2019 again by the counsellor, in 2020 by Mr Feijóo, and in 2021 again by the counsellor. But of what was not done, and the reality is that the counsellor counted here, 15 days ago, which has not yet been done because there were problems where to locate it. The problem is where you've been locating her for eight years! Well, if the problem is where to put it, we think it's necessary to solve it. Let's plan that mental health plans have, indisputably, a follow-up and an evaluation, that the Government doesn't do that assessment to itself because then it would be to do something of a trap. And we're looking at a model of care that integrates mental health really into primary care. How? With programs like those that have already worked, pilot programs in this direction, Galicia has already had some good, well-qualified experience by professionals. That included assistance, which provided the possibility that mental health services were present in primary care centres. We defuse primary professionals and allow them to actually do their work, and we are able to bring mental health closer to primary services because it's the way to get us to be more proactive and therefore more effective. And we're thinking that we're overcoming some administrative problems like Sergas's taking care of the municipalities to do some kind of work, if he disagrees with some kind of mental health, and from there, he thinks that's not his responsibility and going through -- as it is happening -- that there are health professionals linked to the municipalities and not to Sergas, a deep administrative dysfunction. All of this, and besides -- let me do one on the other -- we'll make an improvement to the Psychiatric Conxo Center. Why? In 2017 it was known -- look, it scares even the name -- that the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture had warned of very serious deficiencies in the center of Conxo. Our group brought this debate to this plenary session, we heard that we were opportunists and heard that it was already being done; 2017, we brought it to the beginning of 2018. We're in 2021, nothing's moved! And to be aware of what we are talking about, let me read what that report says, among other issues: "General lack of resources for out-hospital and socio-health care. There is no official control of patients or a procedure for follow-up of patients." On income: the voluntary income document is not signed by any optional person. The administrative file does not include a copy of the medical report sent to the judge with the request to continue. There are no reports that assess the income of some patients. The Voluntary Retirement Trial Cars don't have enough motivation. The reports are not delivered, no optional sign, the judge's cars are not motivated enough, but some people have been there for over thirty years, for thirty years!, thirty years of their lives without anyone being able to validate if they should continue there. Galicia, 2021, here, three kilometers away. [[Applause]] I keep reading to them: "The intimacy of patients is rarely satisfied by nature. Cases of overmedication in psychopharmaceuticals, only works a clinical psychologist in the psychiatric hospital, which has to pay attention to all patients. A high rate of disability and guardianship, although it is noted that there are few visits to tutors, especially when this work corresponds to the Territorial Public Foundation." Let me finish by saying: "Various patients referred to the use of containment measures as punishment measures, containment measures. Individual rooms where mechanical restraints can be performed are not suitable." What is mechanical containment? We know through this report that there are patients who spend 12 days tied to their feet and hands, twelve days! Nobody did anything and it's not decent. And we bring this proposal because, among other things, we believe that, above all the issues that we can debate about policies, this is urgent, it is important, it is decent and it is all the adjectives that want to put on it. But do it, please! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u73	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u74	Good afternoon. In the past plenary the BNG brought the debate in this House a non-law proposal to address the grave situation in which Galicia's mental health is present. We said on many occasions that mental health was one of the great damage to the policy of cutting the People's Party at the Galician Union. And it was during the 11 years of the People's Party's Government with the excuse of the crisis that began in 2008 and the health cuts. And now, in a pandemic situation, a new crisis and mental health all indicates he's back in the drawer. We brought here an initiative that I qualified for as minimums, but I see that everything can be according to the color you look at. Because, in view of what I am proposing today in the amendment to the People's Party, I believe that it was high on what it seems, that both the adviser, in his speech in the past plenary session, as well as the honourable Member of the People's Party and the amendment tabled, it is clear that what the BNG described as minimum is much more than maximum. And the BNG demanded in the past plenary an initiative that began to demand budget. Because any other issue that has no budget on the table is wet paper, and that means the needs of the thousands of people in need of health care are going to fail. Without budgetary increase, the rest is a toast to the sun and, of course, we do not believe that we can effectively develop the Board's Mental Health Plan without more budgeting, at least or at least, on the content announced by the People's Party itself, in the mouth of the president of the Galician Union, who announced 84 million euros in 4 years; with which, at least, this year 2021 would correspond to 21 million euros. And it's obvious that in the budgets of the Union there is not that amount and much less there are not those 12 million euros that the Government and the People's Party that exist in the budgets, summarizing splits that little has to do with increases of nothing. It is therefore necessary to increase budgets, and that is why we are proposing an amendment to this initiative which the Socialist Party is bringing here today, that EUR 21 million be allocated for the year 2021, that a budgetary change be made and then, at least, in the following three years, the corresponding accounts, to bring up those EUR 84 million. Because without more budgeting it's not possible more personal, and it's obvious that the ratios in Galicia of staff, clinical psychologists, psychiatrists or nursing are far below the European average, the average of states belonging to the OECD, and the average of the Spanish state. As long as all the staff under that plan had been increased, it would be half as necessary in the past 25 years. By 2020 they promised to hire 54 professionals and didn't hire half. It looks like by the year 2021 the figure is 120, let's see how much it is. Therefore, budgeting is necessary to incorporate professionals, to end the shame of mechanical restraint, to end the overuse of psychopharmacological treatments, because without more personnel we will remain in the indecent situation that many of the people who need mental health care, away from having that attention, the only thing they have is medication. And more budget to finish the waiting list, that you don't have to be waiting months and even years for a first date, and that the average between a query and the next one is 4 or 5 months, with which you're not paying the attention you need. More budget for the immediate approach to suicide. I mean, without resources it's not possible to make an approach. That's why I insist that we present this amendment. He also called for the BNG, in the full past, to be established in primary health care centers of clinical psychologists, occupational therapists, speech therapists, social workers, which allow the creation of multidisciplinary teams in primary care. Of course, the request that there is a liaison professional between primary and hospital care, or that a hospital care team person moves from time to time when he consults primary care, seems more than insufficient, we feel tremendously inadequate. One third of the consultations that take place in primary care have to do with mental health. If one third of the consultations that take place in primary care relate to mental health, there must be professionals in primary care in order to meet this demand and, by the way, decongesting family doctors, who, as everybody knows, the People's Party says it doesn't have to be able to hire. There's no excuse for hiring clinical psychologists or occupational therapists or more, because that's right, professionals if there's Sergas recruitment lists or unemployment lists. That's why we also tabled an amendment in this direction. We also presented, at the initiative of the BNG, the creation of infant and youth hospital units in each health area, at least one in each health area. Why? Because it's necessary, because there's a lot of population of children and girls and teenagers who need mental health care. Because it's a finding, and it's being said by professionals both from 061 and from emergency services, which is increasing the number of new people who are getting to the emergency, those who arrive at the emergency due to suicide attempts. If that reality is so, the current situation is tremendously inadequate. The child-child care unit in Álvaro Cunqueiro is being promised -- I said in the previous plenary -- since 2014 by the People's Party, by advisers, by health spokespersons in this Parliament. And seven years after saying that it would be done, that it would be done and that it would be inaugurated with Álvaro Cunqueiro, as the Cunqueiro Álvaro was mounted, did the petition that was brought here today, and the People's Party's commitment, that the works would begin before this year's end?, did it really seven years after it had to be inaugurated, the commitment of the People's Party in the amendment that it presents is that the works began before the end of 2021?, is that it really the commitment of thousands of people who need that attention? Of course, at the BNG we seem insufficient and that's why we're still demanding, we're still demanding and we're presenting an amendment for one in every health area, because it's necessary, and if it's not done, it's not taking care of a population as vulnerable as they are children, children and adolescents. [[Applause]] In short, mental health care remains a pending subject. It is so much so that the People's Party did not even consider it necessary to carry out a study to determine the effects that the pandemic is having on the mental health of the population in order to establish the scope of these effects and take the appropriate measures. He didn't even think that it was necessary, not even that. And a clear example of the dramatic mental health situation in Galicia is actually the conxo hospital. A situation reported in this Parliament on many occasions by mechanical restraint, by avoidable suicides. We brought here to this Parliament suicides produced in Conxo when they had to be avoidable, due to manifest deficiencies, when the visit of the Valedora del Pueblo and the report of the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture. In 2017 it was that visit, and now the People's Party, four years later, it seems that in its amendment it accepts the content of that report, only four years later. I mean, the contents of a demolition report, which demanded immediate action by the gravity of what was reported there, and it turns out that the People's Party, when the issue was brought here, practically denied the problem, minimized it, said it was already being solved, and four years later they accepted the report. It's four years late, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And the question is, what is the compensation for the suffering caused to people who have not met or who have been in the inhuman conditions in which they are at the conxo hospital? That's the question you should answer, why you didn't act before, why you didn't act after this report and the people's prayer, and why four years later you say you accept the report, but we don't know what that acceptance of the report is going to be materialized. I, of course, hope that the amendments we tabled will be accepted and that we believe that they will improve the proposal, but if they are not, we shall also vote in favour of the initiative proposed by the rapporteur, Mr Torrido, which has qualified very ambitiously, and I believe that it is also minimal, because they are matters that are actually announced and never done; and it would be good for the People's Party, once it has approved initiatives, to take care that these have been fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u76	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Mental health is the psychological and social emotional well-being that enables us to take forward the challenges of our own life and the community in which we live. According to WHO, health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not only the absence of disease. This means that mental health is more than the mere lack of mental disorders, as it includes a multidimensional look related to subjective well-being, perceived self-esteem, autonomy, competition, intergenerational dependence and the ability to realize the intellectual and emotional potential of the person. In this perspective, mental health has been defined as a state of well-being through which individuals recognize their abilities, are able to cope with the normal stresses of life, work productively and fruitfully, and make a contribution to their communities. And that mitigation of mental health, that taboo that means for many of the mental problems, it's true, but I don't think it's a problem of lack of professionals. It seems rather an educational problem in which we are all committed and we must contribute to demystification. Unfortunately, in most parts of the world mental health and mental disorders do not receive the same importance as physical health. But, on the contrary, they have been largely ignored and neglected in many countries. But in Galicia the situation is different. For President Feijóo, public health continues to be one of his highest commitments, and so he certified it in his investment speech, where he also explained that in this legislation the German Government would launch the greatest mental health plan in our history. And so, in June of last year, the Board of Directors approved the Mental Health Plan of Galicia post-covid 2020-2024, in which different measures and objectives are envisaged to improve the care quality of people with mental disorders and also aimed at prevention and early detection, in addition to focusing the recovery on the patient's environment to reduce the risk of presenting a mental disorder and, in their case, minimize the impact that their suffering has on people and their families. The World Health Organization considers that current circumstances double the risk of mental disorder and, therefore, it is foreseeable that people who may suffer from depression and some kind of mental disorder will increase. Therefore, it is evidence to ensure that this plan has already adapted to the circumstances of the pandemic so that it can try to minimize the consequences for mental health in the Welsh population. We're talking about an ambitious plan, we're talking about a plan that has budgeted EUR 83 million and that counts in this year's budget with more than EUR 12 million. And under these premises I must tell you that since the People's Group we agree on almost everything the Socialist Group proposes in its motion, which, on the other hand, has already been committed by the Health Counsellor to the inquiry of the previous plenary. And I must tell you that we have some nuances that I'm going to break down and that these are the points of our amendment. With regard to point number 1, to effectively and effectively develop the Galego Mental Health Plan, committed to developing a plan to recruit health care personnel in mental health professionals in psychiatry, clinical psychology, social workers, mental health nurses, auxiliary technicians and occupational therapists. And the creation of these 120 new squares before the end of this year and which extends to equate the volume of mental health professionals in Sergas to the state average in all categories effectively at the beginning of 2024: we fully agree with it, and even so announced the counselor. With regard to point (b) we propose an amendment and our amendment speaks of starting before 2021 the works of that compromised unit of infant-juvenile hospitalization in Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo. We believe that we have to be serious, we hear the Health Counsellor say that the functional plan of that unit is already approved, so this year it will be possible to bid both the drafting of the project and the execution of the works, which will finally be a reality. There is already this firm commitment to build and put in place that unit, but we cannot compromise it to be completed on December 31 of this year. We can't cheat, we can't confuse people with unrealistic dates. The commitment is clear, but, as we hear from the advisor, a work of these characteristics has some essential procedures ahead and anyone who knows the public administration knows that it is necessary to bid for the drafting of the project, to bid and adjudicate the works, and obviously those works must be completed. And in eight months that's gone, that doesn't seem to be possible. I have to say that even more, on this subject so sensitive and so transcendently, the Greek Government is going much further and we are much more ambitious. And it's compromised and it's planned to create in all health areas of a child-to-child health day hospital that will allow it to allow special high-intensity care, so as to give a more intensive and frequent response and that, where possible, minimizes the need for younger patients' income. With regard to point (c) of the establishment of the psychogeriatric unit in the health area of Ourense, totally agreed, would remain the same. And in the letter d)we propose a change. We are talking about maintaining the systematic monitoring and evaluation set out in the plan itself and giving an annual account to the Galician Parliament on the implementation of the plan and the progress of each project. This is the assessment formula that is provided for in the plan and we must not forget that this plan was born out of a consultation and participation and consensus in which they were from the Spanish Association of Mental Health Nursing, the Galician Association of Pediatrics, Psychiatry, Mental Health, Fathers and Children with Psychosocial Problems, the Official College of Psychology, Social Work, the Red Cross, the Galician Federation of Associations in favor of Persons with Disabilities, the Federation of Family Associations and Persons with Mental Disease of Galicia, and the Galician Public Foundation of Genetic Medicine. With regard to point 2, we here also propose a change, which is to improve the connection and coordination between mental health services and primary care, through that figure of the optional consultant, with the recruitment of these seven clinical psychologists, one per health area, as established by the plan. One of the main objectives of the plan is to promote access to mental health treatments in order to perform an early intervention and avoid chronication. In this sense, it is planned to promote the development of liaison programs with the creation of multidisciplinary teams to give integral attention to depression, one of the most prevalent mental health pathologies in primary care. As for number three, which talks about Conxo, you've already spoken here. We are totally in agreement at that point. And finally, in point 4 we propose a change, which is to establish a dialogue with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to endorse those mechanisms that will allow a progressive integration agreement in Sergas of mental health services that are provided in services dependent on local administrations, to order this attention and which depends on the competent body in health care, which is the autonomous administration. Therefore, given that we agree in 90 percent of its initiative and with the killings, which can be easily assumed by all, we hope to reach an agreement on a subject of so much social transcendence that affects us all, and above all, we would be giving a message of unity and understanding that is very important for the whole of Galician society. An agreement on a subject in which the Galician Board, through the Council of Health, has made so much effort to achieve, with the cooperation of scientific societies, professional schools and patient associations, an already ambitious health plan, which will prioritize the implementation of projects aimed at reducing the impact of covid-19 on the mental health and emotional well-being of people, which brings with it a reinforcement of the number of professionals in Sergas' care devices to develop specific care-oriented programmes, trauma and depression, and in which special attention will also be given to older people and people entering social health centres and support for women and men health care workers in the first line of care to receive 19. If there is any will we come to an agreement to improve the mental health care of the Greeks and the Greeks. There will be no obstacles to the agreement for us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u78	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. In any case, beyond the debate, I wanted to thank the tone of the speeches, I think they are constructive and can always contribute more easily to reaching some agreements. I wanted to thank you for the support you showed unconditionally to BNG, because of all your intervention. I want to remind you that we have already voted in favour of the BNG initiative in the past; I say that it almost seemed to me that I asked for the vote for its initiative, but in any case we have already voted in favour of it, and it was fine, it was interesting. I'd talk about amendments now. I wanted to mention that it seems that sometimes we talk about issues from far away. All the data mentioned here are prepandemic data, which has to do with the fact that, if they seemed worrying before, we're in a worse situation. So, I think we should be aware that, beyond some races, it is interesting that we are able to put ourselves in the place of those who suffer from repeated and unfulfilled promises. And about that, I think it's important to mention the amendments. And on the debate, we are going to talk about concrete policies. Mrs. Prado found me, I understand that since the logic of the debate, this is much more than minimal. Well, it's a little realistic, I mean, by setting an example: if we accept all the hospitalization units in a year, but only 21 million, one of the two things is impossible. So it's okay to ask for everything but, if possible, you have to ask for things that are feasible. That's why we are considering a transaction, we know the groups and the Bureau, in case it could be voted on, but in any case, several of the issues that BNG transmits, I think they enrich, and therefore we include them and that is why we think they are reasonable. We defend as far as we think it's possible. On the amendment of the People's Party, some of the issues are included: the agreement with Fegamp, for example. The evaluation committee always surprises us because the evaluation committee asks for the current format to be considered. The current format assumes that the counseling will evaluate how the counseling does, and man!, I'm not very guessy to you but usually will say that well. Maybe not, Mr. Rodríguez says, it might be all right. I don't know if you, evaluating yourself, maybe you think it hurts. No, I wouldn't be very distracted about it, but, at any rate, I would say that counseling can always say that it does it more or less well. On the other issues, I see that Mrs. Amigo passed over the pledges of the child-child unit in Vigo. I'll remind you: 2015, 2016, 2018, 2019, 2020 and, the other day, 2021. This is -- because it's Vigo's --, like that promise song that's worth nothing, to put us a little poppies. Of course, Ourense's psychogerontology unit already has a lot more promises than ever before. He has promises... I don't know, I would say that as eight or nine times he has already promised himself, Mrs. Friend, and that this is the problem of this government, which he promises a lot. But then, when you have to run, shut up. I like it when you promise because you're away. It's just, of course, we have a problem. [[Applause]] And allow me to stop again on the question of Conxo. You, Mrs. Friend, said, and I thank you: in the Conxo we must agree. Well, the problem is that in 2017 they said exactly the same thing, and it's four years, and for us four years are going on in a certain way, but for people entering Conxo they go through different ways and, actually, it's not acceptable that a country living in a situation like the one that has the conxo psychiatric center, it's unacceptable. And, therefore, we expect it to be approved. You present an amendment that does not touch that, and therefore we believe that it can be approved, but the question is no longer to approve, the question is that if you do, if you approve, you do, because if we are not here in January of this year we are discussing why something has not been done here and you will move: we agree very much; but so long they agree to see if you ever do something, that would be the most important thing. Allow me a question of form, because you haven't touched many of the initiatives. A question of form, it's a personal matter, perfect!, in the parliamentary technique when, of eight paragraphs and one thing like three hundred words are touched by eight or ten, the amendments, I think, should not be substitution, it's not going to be that someone can think of what they do to get deleted and that it's another party and can approve. It doesn't matter why you approve things from another party, sometimes we say things in a sense, sometimes. So I think you should modify that way. In any case, this is a sensible proposal, we think it's sensible, it's already promised, some, it's true, a lot of things. The question you're here now is what votes the PP on the promises that PP makes? Because it would be extraordinary for the PP to vote against some of these things when it promised them all. And it translates into the traditional debate of whether we are words or facts. You say they're very factual, because we're going to see that they vote on all these things, in some of them I think, if they haven't touched them in the amendment, they're going to be in favor; and others, which is the question of what we're talking about, what are they going to vote on the things that you yourself have proposed? Because this is the debate, see if it's going to be that in the end about the things you're proposing, we're going to vote in favour and you're against, which would be fascinating. Finally, in any case, I hope that the proposal will be voted unanimously, why? Because they've all been announced and from opposition groups they've all been sued for a while, and if they're necessary and we agree that they're necessary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u80	...I'd be delighted to know what the vote against would be. So, as I understand you don't, I thank you in advance for the vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u81	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Motions vote We begin by voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is not accepted. Voting of the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega Otero, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to persons in situations of unwanted loneliness The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38; abstentions, The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u82	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonzo. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. Voting of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the economic and social crisis in the region of Ferrol The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38; abstentions, The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u83	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. There's a transaction proposal that has been brought to the groups. Yes, my friend, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u84	It's just we don't agree with the transaction. We shall call for a point of order. We shall request separate votes in point 1, 1(a) and 1(c); point 3, and point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u85	Do you accept the point vote, Mr. Torrado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u86	I would like to ask you whether the point vote is on the original proposal or on the negotiated proposal. That's the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u87	We don't accept the BNG amendment, which you made me come here in the transaction. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u88	She, let's see, Mr. Torrado, I think she's formulating that in... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Me, too, there are two of us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u89	BNG's amendment accepts voting points, in case they don't want to vote the BNG amendment on the transaction... and the transaction, which knows the groups and the Bureau, I allow the PP to choose the points you want to vote. From the transaction even, I mean.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u90	1(a) and 1(c), point 3 and point 4 separately of the transaction. And point number 4 separately. From the transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u91	[...] of the transaction. Do you accept this vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u92	There's no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u93	All right. So we are going to vote, firstly, points (a) and (c) of point 1 of the motion. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, that's probably after. Let's split by dots. So from point one, which is divided into two points, we're going to vote on the a) and c) that are the ones she asked to separate. We're going to vote on point 1 to separate these two. We vote. Vote of point 1 (a) and (c) of the motion by the Socialist Group of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of mental health The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. Therefore, you have approved these two points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u94	We are now going to vote on points (b) (d) and (e) of this first point. We vote. Voting of points (b) (d) and (e) of point 1 of the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of mental health The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u95	We now vote point 2. We vote. Voting of point 2 of the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of mental health The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This point 2 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u96	And now, finally, we are voting on points 3 and 4. We vote. Vote of points 3 and 4 of the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of mental health The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u97	And now I'm going to read them an institutional statement that brings me the groups, after an agreement that was reached today morning, on the candidacy of Mr. Francisco Javier Pitillas Back to the Prince of Asturias Award of the Concordia, and which says: "The Galician Parliament declares, by agreement of all parliamentary groups represented in the House, its support for the candidacy of Mr. Francisco Javier Pitillas Torra, founder of Discamino, for the award of the Princess Asturias Award of the Concordia. Francisco Javier Pitillas, born in Vigo in 1962, is a local police sergeant in Vigo, an international success athlete and founder in 2009 in DisCamino, a project that helps people with disabilities to carry out the Santiago Road fighting for equal opportunities. Among the merits of Javier Pitillas, in the personal and professional field, we could highlight a prolific sports career in the discipline of athletics -- it was an absolute sub-campion of Spain 2 times, international on 6 occasions and champion of Spain of veterans --. In 1996 he began to reconcile his professional work with that of an athlete's trainer to ONCE users, and 13 years later, with a permanent social and personal commitment to people with disabilities, he created the Discamin project, designed to enable people with great disabilities to realize the path of integration and personal overcoming, helping to help, visualize and disseminate the culture of sport and effort, as well as respect and recognition to the worth of all people, regardless of their abilities. The Way of Santiago is the faithful image of a common cultural itinerary, centered on the cooperation and solidarity of all who pass it. After 11 years, I had a team of 90 volunteers who enabled 115 people with disabilities to live this experience. In total, since 2009 and uninterruptedly, it has taken 72 roads, including: 2 from Rome, 4 from Roncesvalles, 2 times the Silver Route, the cyclist's return to Spain, the cyclist's return to Andalucía, again through the province of Cadiz, again through the Cantabrian, a route through the Alps, the Transpierenaica and many more. This initiative allowed him to receive awards of recognised prestige to solidarity, such as the Medals Castelao in 2014 or the Condecoration of the Order of Civil Merit by Felipe VI in 2015, a decoration that recognizes anonymous citizens who by their exemplary conduct make Spain great. The Princess of Asturias Prize of the Concordia would be a worthy recognition to a person who throughout his vital journey manifested a deep love, humility and generosity, and who managed to find, through the sport and the Way of Santiago, a way to make hundreds of people with special difficulties happy. And this distinction would mean recognition not only to your person, but also to an initiative that constitutes a reference to the values that make up the agreement." [[Approved by consent]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Thank you very much, that we are successful, that he deserves it. Let's give him a round of applause. [[Applause]] And we continue with the agenda, now we've gone to non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Socialist, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia aimed at establishing facilities for the collection and acceptance of the previous instruction document, in accordance with the wishes of the Law 5/2015, as well as in carrying out the necessary updates and adaptations in the Galician legal and health system to accompany public mechanisms to social progress generated from the adoption of the Organic Law on the regulation of euthanasia in the Congress of Deputies and to ensure the possibility of exercising that right in Galicia in full of conditions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u98	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(The Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group (BNG), at the initiative of Mrs Montserrat Prado Cores, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, tabled the following amendment:Additional amendment:Add a new point 4 with the following text:"4. Immediately carry out the actions needed to comply with the provisions of Law 5/2015 of 26 June, of rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people in their unique additional provision. Dissemination and promotion of the law: The Galician Union, within a maximum of three months from the entry into force of this law, will carry out the necessary actions both to disseminate this law between the professionals and the citizens and the citizens of Greece and to promote the implementation of the previous instruction document between the population."]] [[(The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia through its Spokesman and at the initiative of Marta Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal: Replacement amendmentThe text of the non-legislative part of the Proposal must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Extending the facilities for the collection and acceptance of the pre-instruction document with the approval of receipt, under current guarantees conditions, by health care personnel.2. Open the possibility of, in dialogue with the entities involved, improving the standardized pre-instruction document, enabling the possibility of modifying it to be more explicit and facilitating decisions if it has to be applied.3. Continue to apply Law 5/2015, of June 26, of rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people, progressively incorporating any scientific progress that collaborates in the prevention and relief of pain and suffering of terminally ill people, avoiding therapeutic obstination and seeking orthothanasia or good death of the patient.4. To address the Central Government to request it to set up a multidisciplinary working group on the application of the Organic Law on the regulation of euthanasia, in which at least scientific societies (especially those linked to palliative care), the Committee on Bioethics of Spain and the General Council of Medical Colleges of Spain are involved, all entities with whom it has not been included at the stage of drafting this Law, to deal with all matters arising from its entry into force and to allow its application to be fully guaranteed in the legal and health system."]] To formulate this non-law proposition Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u99	Thank you, President. We're not the first, but be sure we won't be the last. Surely more than one of those who are in this House will remember these words of recent state policy, by adopting some civil right that fills a whole country with pride and which is worth a whole country, a whole country. They would be perfectly applicable now thanks to the opportunity given to us by the policy of enjoying rights that we had not before and now we have. This country has one more right, and that's always a reason for satisfaction. We believe, from our group, that, with all the pride of being the party that promoted this recognition, it's a merit that would be absurd to arrogant us, it doesn't make any sense. It is a merit to obtain a right, which is not an obligation, and it is a merit of the whole society, of all the parties that supported it here in this House, also the BNG participated in that approval and deserves all recognition of its contribution. But, above all, allow me to thank him, said Ascension Cambron, the spokeswoman of the Association for the Right to Die Dignifiedly, in recent days, which is the merit and the satisfaction of all those people who have sacrificed themselves with great hardness, and who have even failed in circumstances they do not want, but who through them and their struggle is also a success that they deserve: Maria José Carrasco, Maribel Tellaetxe, Luis de Marcos, Ramon Sampedro... In short, all those who for a long time have seen as there was a right that they believed necessary, that they believed worthy, but that they had not recognized it, and they fought for it much more than we do for those who dedicate ourselves to politics in cameras, who only transmit a popular will that, in this case, no one can escape it that comes late, but it is well and well arrived and so we want to celebrate it. We also want to claim in this case the figure of Dr. Luis Montes, already deceased, probably one of the most powerful people with a human commitment that could be seen in this country. [[Applause]] This is a right which does not impose others, which does not impose, because rights do not impose, have that virtue and that wonder of giving people the opportunity to choose them, of having the opportunity to use them or not. Like all those rights, this one does exactly the same thing. We understand -- it couldn't be otherwise -- we understand all the difficulties, all the resistance. We understand the reluctance and understand, moreover, and we want to respect with all will and honesty all opinions and positions around the right to euthanasia, to dignified death and to all the debates that arise in matters that we deeply understand morals and that correspond to personal ethics. It's insatiable that they don't understand, it's insatiable that they don't respect each other. But that's opinions and positions that, being absolutely respectable, must -- and we know it must be so, that it will be so -- respecting the collective will, which is now transformed into law. It is impossible to recognise also that this Parliament has taken and has taken its steps in 2015 towards a guarantee law, a law which has had the greatest, vast support of all groups of this House. I was not a member of this House but I will never tire of thanking all the groups, all the groups, all the work they have done, and believe that inside me I constantly applaud them for being able to reach that agreement, to which they have come with work, with effort and dialogue. That was a law that for some it would be a step too much, for others insufficient, but it was a good law, it is a good law and, of course, our recognition and our applause for those people who worked and for the groups that approved it, because that's the way it is, so great progress is made. This is the opportunity for us to demonstrate that politics and management must be united. Politics recognizes rights, promotes freedoms, and in this case we work or debate rights that have to do with a clearly delicate issue but that we need policy to recognize. We also need that policy later translated into facts, because a recognized right that cannot be exercised is not a right, it is a wet role. And, therefore, we are responsible from management and, especially, those with more direct competences, not to frustrate desires, not to frustrate the popular wills that are expressed and that achieve progress. We bring to this House a non-law proposal that aims to adjust, to fine-tune issues that we believe can be improved in autonomic legislation and to propose that it adapts to new legal realities in the state, which will correspond to Galicia, the Galician Union, the Council of Health essentially, develop and that is why we believe it is necessary. What do we think about the most technical management plan? We have a debate on the need to ensure that the law of 2015, Law 5/2015, of guarantees, is fulfilled. Because, let's be honest, that law was passed and it was a great approval, but it's not true, it's not easy to comply. People who want to take on the issues that pass on to Law 5/2015, the law of guarantees, a law that regulates the rights at the end of the lives of people, terminally ills, are not effectively complied with. Galicia has today the smallest record in number of previous instruction documents, vital wills, the smallest of all Spain. And nowhere is it written, it's more, it's evidenced the opposite, that the opinion and ideological position of the Greeks and the Greeks is similar to the rest of the autonomous communities in Spain. Differences are minimal and therefore it's impossible to explain that we have such a low record. What's the matter? Because there are difficulties, there are difficulties. People who want to register their pre-instruction document have difficulties in making it because counseling gets into trouble, that's the problem, and they have difficulties registering it and accepting it, because counseling gets into the problem. It hampers the situation by causing inefficient bureaucracy, probably too wide and probably avoiding the possibility of many people resorting to those rights that they have recognized. As we say, a recognized right is fundamental, but an undeveloped right is a frustration and we therefore consider improving that issue through this initiative. We also plan that, existing as there has been since last week a law that recognizes a right, for us most important, it is necessary for the Council of Galicia to do its part of the work. As we say, we are aware of the difficulties and that the management and enforcement of rights has its complexity, but it's time for management and it's time for politicians and policies to work on developing those regulations that are under way. The law of euthanasia is a guarantee law, probably very guaranteed from a few points of view, which sought an easier law, is excessively guaranteed, and for others it will be excessively libertarian, but that's the question, which is what we have and which is approved. But it must be effective, and for that Galicia has some missions. We also propose, on this initiative, that the mechanisms be accelerated so that their application can be made possible. What mechanisms? Galicia must appoint a commission that works and evaluates the circumstances, a monitoring and follow-up commission, and that commission has three months to assess itself, to comply. We wouldn't understand, no one would understand, that there was an unnecessary delay in the application, because you might not be in accordance with the law -- it's perfectly legitimate -- but what can't be inapplyed, or can't make your application difficult. And we've come here to say that this happens, it happened in 2015 in some well-known and sad case. It occurs in the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy, and it occurs in cases where the laws sometimes do not agree with the ideological position of this Government, and we want that not to happen. Finally, we want rights to be developed. This is not the case with the 2015 Law, which is a great law to recognize them but not to develop them, and we want it not to happen with the Euthanasia Law, why? Because the right to euthanasia is a right that deeply respects two essential issues: one, freedom and the other, life. Because there are few ways to respect both freedom and life and to allow people to choose how and when to end their own lives, because people are not afraid to die, they are afraid to suffer, and we are a society that we can afford to save ourselves from suffering, and that is a great advance for everyone, and that's why we want them to be satisfied. Finally, we want to do what García Márquez said, that we have to start a utopia sweeper where no one can decide for others or even how to die. And so we want a great deal of agreement in this House, to know that we can continue to say that we are still pioneers, that we are still great in exercise, in law and in the recognition of rights, and that is why we bring this GNP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u100	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u101	Good afternoon again. Mr Prado del Río said this morning that the problem was not the lack of legislation, but that the problem is the failure to comply with existing legislation, the increase in laws. And I fully agree with that statement, but I have to add that, indeed, a law, if it does not then, is wet paper, and I have to say that the People's Party is a specialist in not fulfilling the laws, especially when it comes to rights. And examples abound, don't they? I'd need a lot more than the time I have for this intervention to name those breaches. In fact, in 2015 Law 5/2015 on rights to guarantee the dignity of terminally ill people was passed in this Parliament. A law that regulates the right of the Greeks and terminally ill galleys to decide about the final process of their life. And we've already said at that time that it wasn't the maximum law that BNG would like, that there were issues that we thought were important that weren't regulated. Others, such as the lack of conscientious objection, which was regulated, seemed to us an important step, and indeed, it was a law adopted unanimously, fruit of assignments, of the assignments of the groups at that time that we discussed that law. And we said that, indeed, it was not the law of maximums, that we believe that we should continue to move on in legislative measures to stop penalizing people who have no other acceptable way of avoiding the suffering that ceases to live, which is, really, what it is about, what we are dealing with today. The struggle for a worthy death, of course, in the BNG we firmly believe that it is part of the struggle for a worthy life, and we defend the necessity of having legal instruments to achieve those goals that enable people to move forward in control of their lives and therefore also in control of their death. Getting legal recognition of the control of life and death itself is of relevance to those advances of rights, which, of course, BNG will always be there pushing. And we defend that every person can decide freely where and how to live, and also how to die in case of unresolved diseases and that they can't afford more health care. This law of guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people regulates the record of previous instructions, the vital will, to decide how he wants to be his death, to pose his end, but does not regulate how to enforce that right, and that is one of the problems that has not been realized. We said to register people's wishes at the time of their death, there is no guarantee that they will comply, since they are not established by that law. We insist, it was a step forward but they don't lay down obligations. That is why we consider the initiative brought here by the Socialist Party today, because I insist that the law which has no mechanism to become effective and does not become effective is wet paper and, therefore, they are denying rights, or hindering the enjoyment of those rights, to people who should be able to exercise them. The right to a worthy death, the living will, allows people to consider the end, discuss values with their neighbors, their family environment, or their environment of friends. And the problem is, there's been absolutely no effort on the part of the Galician Union to extend and enforce that right. And so that freedom to decide the end is not allowed. And that's why the initiative presented by the Socialist Party, the BNG, we present to you a amendment, which is literally the unique additional provision of the law, which is contained in it, gathering a amendment that has presented the BNG, to set deadlines for popularizing the existence of this law, because what you don't know is difficult for people to accept it. It's an amendment that, textually, is that unique additional provision, and that says that the Galician Union, within a maximum of three months -- we're talking about three months of the year 2015, of course we're talking about almost six years later -- since the entry into force of the law, will carry out the necessary actions, both to give this law to professionals, citizens and citizens of Greece and to promote among the population the realization of the previous instruction document. It was a safeguard that, in fact, being aware of the open that certain aspects of the law remained, which in a short time had done that work of popularization of the law. It's obvious it hasn't been made, with which paper it's wet. And I continue to insist that, despite all this, that law was a step forward, just as it is an advance to the approval of the Law on the Management and Regulation of Euthanasia that has just been produced a few days ago, a law that has been made to wait, that, like the case of the Law on the Rights of Guarantees and Dignity of terminally ill people, is a very important reality thanks to the effort and sacrifice of collectives, such as the Right Association to Dignified Death, as well as individuals. And in Galicia that individualization must be done in the case of Ramon Sampedro and many others. Many more have been named here before, and it is true that the role, the impulse, that Ramon Sampedro's performance realized from that right to decide the end of life was very important. It's important to make progress, because decriminalizing euthanasia doesn't mean the obligation to opt for it -- we've already said it on more occasions -- but rather to have a chance to choose, to have options, than to have rights and to have options. No one forces anyone to accept a law if he thinks he doesn't need it, or he doesn't need it, but it's very important to have a chance to do it if someone thinks he needs to put an end to his life, because he thinks it's unbearable to continue with his life. We also consider it insufficient, because there are things that have not been collected. He used to refer to conscientious objection, which was collected in the Law on the guarantees of terminals in Galicia, but is not collected in this regulation of euthanasia. Or questions that also remain in some ambiguity. But in spite of everything, that's a very important step forward that, of course, in the BNG we'll try to improve in the future. And what it's about is that no one imposes the obligation to live on anyone when he thinks it's impossible to continue with that life. It's about being the owners of your own life and being the owners of your own death. Because at the BNG we start from the premise that life is a right, it's not a obligation, it's a right. This regulation is also a step forward in the face of those who want to sacralize life and put before a supposed divine will in the face of freedom and personal choice, but then they also put no effort or effort into making that life worthy of many thousands of people. And, of course, we believe that it doesn't seem to be received that in a state -- which, officially, the Spanish State is a confessional -- there are laws or regulations that put above the personal right ethical and moral bases directly linked to the divine and not to the rights of people. I insist it's a breakthrough. We are going to vote in favour of this initiative, whether it accepts the amendment of the BNG or not, but this step, of course, was not unanimous in the Congress of Members, and it is a step forward in the face of all kinds of problems and difficulties. And I would like to make it clear that, if the rapporteur is going to accept point 4 of the amendment tabled by the People's Party, that we are not going to vote in favour of that amendment, because it is an amendment that, once again, he wants to be in the State where decisions are made on something that is already regulated, and in the Law on the Management of Euthanasia which has recently been adopted in the Congress of Deputies is established, in its article 17, the creation and composition of the Committee on Assurance and Evaluation, which is that commission that needs to be created in each autonomous community within 3 months of the entry into force of this Article 17 and where that commission has the competence to apply what is established in this Act of Euthanasia, without the need for more coordination, without the need of guardianships or distraction manoeuvres, as this amendment is intended in its paragraph 4, which is to allow it to be believed in the State that something that is not necessary to be created for -- I hope -- not to create this commission in Galicia, and to rob the Galicia, and you of the rights to enjoy in force of this Law in force. I hope this is not so and that within three months of the entry into force of this law, in Galicia we have the constitution of that monitoring and evaluation commission, so that all the Greeks and Greeks who want it, who need it and who ask for it can accept this Euthanasia Regulatory Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. It is evidence that death is the only certainty that we have human beings from the moment we are born; and, given the evolution of our society, there has been an increasing participation of the health system in the health process, in the process of dying, even if not always in the most appropriate way. Recognizing the nature of death and seeking peace at the end of life must be understood as elements of our institutional heritage and we must root them into the ethical code of the Greek health organization. This is the first paragraph of the explanatory statement of the Law on guarantees and rights of the dignity of terminally ill people, which we approved -- as you well said -- in this Parliament unanimously in 2015. A great law we feel very proud of, not only the way it was handled, but also the support of health professionals, but also the consensus reached by the groups of this House. A law that was taken as a reference in other autonomous communities and is being used to protect and respect the dignity of the person until the end of life, the rights and wishes of terminal patients, ensuring that they receive palliative care. But also the proper treatments for getting good death, the one that happens without pain and suffering, the one that we want for all of us and for all of us. From this rostrum I would also like to join the congratulations and congratulate the rapporteurs of this law who continue to be Members here, the President of Parliament, Miguel Santalices, who was the rapporteur for the Popular Group; Mrs Prado, for the Group of the BNG, and the rest of the rapporteurs of the groups who do not continue to be Members in this legislature: Mrs Cuña, for the PSOE; Mrs Solla, for the Alternative Left Gaga; and Mrs Martínez, for the Mixed Group. And congratulate them -- I insist -- for that desire to achieve consensus, because it was a law that picked up the feeling of majority of Galician citizenship. Article 8 provides for the right to grant the pre-instruction document to the official or public employee in charge of the Italian Register of pre-instructions on health care and treatment. The model of document that we have in Galicia, which is true that a concrete is not required, precisely to be non-restrictive when receiving them, allows you to make clarifications and modifications, if it is considered appropriate; and, in fact, has an open field for this purpose. Although, of course, everything is improved and that's why we also understand that, if this is the case, the document must be improved to optimize the transfer of the decisions of the people who present it. There are 37 pre-instructions enabled units of the Galician Register currently in which you can not only clarify doubts or deliver documentation but also formalize the said document. And it can also be presented at any center of the Galego Health Service, which will give you a transfer to the corresponding registry unit. You have just said, Mr. Torrado, that Galicia presents the numbers of documents recorded below the state. We don't think there should be competition in these figures; the Union, of course, has the duty to inform citizens and put all possible means to process documents. But citizenship doesn't have the obligation to exercise all the rights with which it counts, you yourself just said it: right doesn't. But really, in fact, only four autonomous communities are over two ten documents per 10,000 inhabitants -- I bothered to look for it because it caught my attention --. Below Galicia are Castela-A Mancha, Murcia and Extremadura; and similar figures are Madrid, Castela-León or Andalusia. We're not so out of step with the rest of the autonomous communities either; now, we have to guarantee access to all the people who want this record. It is different if you see this difficulty of access to present it to the Greeks and the Greeks. And in that sense goes precisely point 1 of our amendment: to lower the facilities for collection and acceptance of it. What we don't agree with is that it's the family doctor who has to process these documents. Family doctors -- we hear it all the time here -- they're already quite overburdened with work, and what we're currently trying to do is download them from the administrative work they're doing so they can do their job, their role, which is not to diagnose and treat the patients of their illnesses. We therefore believe that this must continue to be part of the staff of the health centres, the officials and the statutaries who are, precisely, trained to do this task. With regard to the second point of the initiative, which would open the possibility of dialogue with the entities involved in the improvement of the document, we have already said this: we are in favour of improving everything that is likely to improve. In Galicia, in addition to having this law, we have a Plan of Palliative Care, which was published in 2007 and which, with several changes, continues to be in force. And we have the Galician Committee for Palliative Care, the Technical Committee for Health, the Committee for Complex Oncology Pain, the references for palliative care in primary care in the non-assisted part. And on the side of the care we have the involvement of primary care in the Greek Palliative Care Plan, which takes place in the direct care of professionals around 80% of patients and their families who need palliative care. And at this point, he's working to make all primary care services available to him with the medication and infusions needed to proceed with palliative sedation. One very important step was the incorporation of family physicians into this type of care, in addition to conventional health services, support function teams in palliative care, which are very important in Galicia because they care for patients with advanced and complex disease both in the hospital and at home, and palliative units of hospitals, ADO, etc. We consider that in Galicia if you're doing a good job in this palliative care field, though -- I repeat again -- everything is better. With regard to the third point, as far as the changes in the system in Galicia are concerned, both the legal and health system, generated from the adoption of the Organic Law on the regulation of euthanasia in the Congress of Deputies, the first thing we would like to point out is that the German Government always complies with the applicable laws, always whether or not it is in agreement with them. In this Chamber we do not have to debate euthanasia, it was held at the Congress of Deputies, and in this process of law we have not reached the consensus that if we had in Galicia with the law we have just quoted. And we think that for a law to have gone wide it must have the greatest consensus possible. The law of euthanasia has been committed at a difficult time, in the midst of a pandemic, with little reflection period, in a Parliament limited by the declaration of the state of alarm, without appearances, without debate. He responded in a hurry, social organizations, medical societies, disability institutions were not able to give his opinion. And precisely from there some resources that are wanted to be brought against the law, and the Spanish Committee of Persons with Disabilities, of the CERME, considers that the Euthanasia Act adopted by the Congress of Deputies makes -- textual words -- "an unnecessary signal to persons with disabilities, and will ask the Ombudsman to present an unconstitutional remedy. Notes that the new law is contrary to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations." An express processing was chosen that avoided the pre-emptive dictates of the State Council, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Tax Council... and that even stole the hearing process from interested parties. And a law is passed that many professors, constitutional law professors and academics of jurisprudence say it's unconstitutional. We've just seen what happened to our neighbours in Portugal, with a law that is less harmful than ours, which was passed in Congress and which was buried a few days ago by the Constitutional Court of the neighbouring country. A law which, being a provision to be made at health centres, did not involve the Ministry of Health, was promoted by the Ministry of Justice and did not consult the Committee on Bioethics of Spain or the General Council of Physicians of Spain, nor did the schools of nursing. A law that, once voted, must be put into effect with guarantees and both supporters and detractors agree that the drafting of the law leaves many aspects in the air. You ask us to make rapid changes to the Welsh legislation, and there are experts, Mr. Torrado, who think it is impossible to do things medium enough well in three months, which is the deadline which sets the law for its entry into force. In the few countries that have approved it the deadlines range from 12 to 18 months. But that, in addition, such an important health law deserves all the information from health professionals. Doctors have doubts about how they're going to apply all of this, this is a very important subject, you can't do one day at a time. A shared concern is precisely the creation of the autonomic evaluation committees that you have just mentioned. And that is why we tabled this amendment calling for a multidisciplinary working group to be set up on the application of this law at the level of all Spain where we can discuss all these issues that concern health professionals, who are going to have to put it into practice. And for all of this, we present this amendment, which we hope will be taken into account. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u105	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I want to thank the support of the Galician Nationalist Block for this initiative and its perfect and uncompromising understanding of the situation, as it cannot be otherwise. And thank you for the tone and collaboration you always have on these issues. And on the amendments, by going first to the most technical or more timely issue of the matter, we believe that the amendment of BNG contributes and sums up. It is a purely formal matter that in natural debates we should not be discussing n times, but this is the case in this Parliament because we must respect things in this way; and therefore we fully include it as it adds without any problem. The People's Party has raised some questions, some doubts. To be more explicit, our point 1 proposes to change some issues so that it is obviously the health professionals of public health centres who can process and extend this opportunity for people to deliver their vital will or the pre-instruction document. The only thing we've ever thought about -- it seems to us -- is to make it clear that it's obviously voluntary for professionals. There may be professionals who don't want to do that procedure and we believe it's important that you volunteer because it will always be better treated. And we also include that it's treated by the professional who chooses the patient -- it's a little natural -- but that the professional also does it on a voluntary basis, and with that we would contribute. We have some discrepancy at the last point of the proposal, which is basically the procedure to be taken and therefore the development of measures to exercise or to allow the exercise of rights. I don't share some positions, I understand some positions that Mrs Vispo expressed, I don't share some qualifications. I wouldn't use the concept that Portuguese law was less injured. I'm the last one I think this law is injury, the last one. I think it's just, it's an inverse law, it's not meant to be injured, it's meant to be liberating to people. I think this is what the law is about. But, going to the bottom of the matter, you're asking -- I think I understand -- that this law -- it said -- it didn't have much support and it comes in a hurry. I understood those two questions. We can go to the cold data, to the city surveys, to the streets, to the people we know, to know if you really have support or have no support, we believe you do. Cold data give 85 %, 87 % of social support to a law regulating euthanasia. They choose the data they want, but that's the way it is. It's that citizenship goes far ahead of us in this matter. The parliamentary political translation of citizenship is in Parliament. How many political groups are there in Congress of Deputies? If we count the mix as one, I think there are 10, if we count it separately there must be 14 or 15. Who voted against? The People's Party and Vox, all the others in favor. We say it because the concept that most social is in favour or against is not correlated with what the People's Party thinks on some occasions; certainly in other places, but not in this. So assume that most of them are what everyone thinks is wrong, most of them are in favour of this law. But it is not a law dealt with in three months: for different matters, some for administrative matters, others for delays due to political parties themselves and others for issues and reticences that have hindered the law, we have been doing this for years! So it's not fast enough, it's late. It's not that it's not a majority, it's too majority so we haven't done it before, if that's the self-criticism that we have to assume many. And the question is that you're proposing an amendment so that it doesn't apply, and we can't accept that. It's a right and it's unstoppable, it's a right that won't go back, this country won't stop it. This country has achieved a right last week thanks to a lot of people who have worked for it and it won't be possible to stop it. And yes, in Galicia there are laws that recognize rights that are not met. The law of voluntary interruption of pregnancy, which is not met and torpedoed on purpose, as is clearly demonstrated not only in this Parliament but in real cases. As the 2015 law itself, which, months after being approved, failed to comply with the umbrellas of the President of the Union himself for then, Mr. Feijóo. Of course, rights need to be developed by laws, but in the end, what are we proposing with this GNP? That the Union should comply with the law and, therefore, if all we think about is that if it complied with the law, we would not understand that it had voted against. We don't ask anyone to agree, we ask them to comply, because it's a right and it's not an obligation, actually. But a recognized right that is not met is a frustration and we owe nothing that brings frustration to citizens, on the contrary. We have often generated enough so that citizens can take us too long. So let's not put sticks in their wheels. You may be in disagreement, but this is already a right, this is a merit of all citizenship, and we have raised them, beyond the parliamentary issue, beyond approval or not, that do not violate rights. And, please, there are no cases in which there are people who want to develop a right and they don't have the opportunity because someone puts a bureaucratic strain on them. It happened on other occasions; please don't let it happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u106	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and three other Members, on the elaboration by the Government of the German Government of a plan to rescue and speed up the processing of aid for the hospitality sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u107	There was an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block and another amendment to the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(The Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mr Daniel Pérez López, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Replace the resolution with the following text:"The German Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Develop a genuine rescue plan specific to the hospitality sector to ensure its survival in our country and, even so, to speed up the processing of aid articulated by the government of Greece for the hospitality sector.2. Consensually agree with a broad and plural representation of the housing sector the criteria of own share which the Galician Union can establish (within the general parameters established by the State Government) for funds intended for the sector, and which Galicia will receive in the wake of the Royal Decree-Law extraordinary measures to support business solvency.3. To request the Government of the State to implement and expedite the transfer of funds that Galicia will receive in the wake of the Royal Decree-Law of extraordinary measures to support business solvency."]] [[(The Popular Parliamentary Group of Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Mr Borja Verea Fraiz, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to that Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal:Replacement amendmentThe text of the resolution part of the non-law proposal is to be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1.-Request of the Central Government that before the end of this month of April the agreement with the Government of Galicia for the transfer of the funds derived from the Royal Decree of 5/2021 of 12 March, to the use of the extra-curricular support for the success of the success of the business in the COVID-19 pandemic for greater flexibility and efficiency of aid.2.-]] To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Gallego has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u108	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. From an economic point of view, the health crisis caused by cowardly 19 will be one of the biggest crises in our most recent history. One of the most disadvantaged sectors, as you all know, is, of course, that of the inn. Specifically, restoration, accommodation and nightlife, which have a strong impact on the gross domestic product and are seriously affected by health restrictions determined by the pandemic. The autonomic executive has to put in place more effective measures than the help he brought to the inn. These aids are insufficient and do not have a fair and fair distribution criterion. According to the data published in December by the Galego Institute of Statistics, the worst branch for the effects of the pandemic is the hostel. Coinciding with the different copper-19 grotesques, the billing of bars, restaurants and hotels fell last year by 42 %. Seven out of 10 jobs lost in Galicia during the year 2020 were in bars, restaurants and lodgings, seven out of 10. In Galicia, in the last year, the drop in high school workers was 1.7 %, with 16,855 employed less. Of them, more than 12,000 corresponded to the hostel, more than 12,000 according to the data published by the Galego Institute of Statistics. The sector, only in December, destroyed a further 1,325 jobs and accumulated a 16% reduction in employment in the year. The sector has recorded a 70% fall in billing with respect, for example, to the 2019-2020 Christmas campaign. So we could make an idea, the losses in December for the hostel ranged between 15 and 18 million. This data confirms that the pandemic is destroying most of the jobs in the hospitality sector. The obvious effects of reduced working hours, holding families' expenses and fear of social contact lead to a limited situation. So from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we call on the Galician Council to draw up a rescue plan as soon as possible for this sector. That's how he's been claiming it for months at the hostel in all of Galicia. The consequence of all these circumstances is that more and more hosts decide to set up their bar, café, restaurant or pub, for sale, rent or transfer. In the last year, two out of every 10 hostel establishments in Galicia were forced to bring down the blind permanently. In total, in the year of the coronavirus 3,400 community hosts were forced to close their business, almost an average of 10 a day, almost an average of 10 a day. To date, beyond the propaganda noise, the Galician Council approved in November a line of assistance to the hostery amounting to EUR 17 million, when the state's own extraordinary transfers in 2020 reached the count of EUR 745 million, of which EUR 225 million were transferred to compensate for the fall in economic activities. Where were those 224 million? [[Applause]] Where did they go? Mr. Feijóo's autonomous government arrived too late with the help. The Official Journal of Galicia issued its orders on 27 November for aid to microenterprises, self-employed persons and inns. It's been 9 months since the beginning of the pandemic, thus demonstrating the Galician Union that it has not anticipated anything, though you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, repeat over and over again as a mantra that if they did advance; it's not true, they did not anticipate or advance anything, it's not true. [[Applause]] The second aid plan, with 12 million for the inn, is insufficient and does not meet the needs of the sector, which, by the way, today morning, spoke to representatives of various hospitality associations and told me that still, that these aids have not yet been brought in, are still unincorporated. And that's what Mr. Rueda said on March 10th that last week they were already in, they were going to be in. Then a little more speed. Together with the Government of Spain, which has transferred millions of euros to support autonomy in social and economic reactivation. The autonomous government has to develop a serious rescue plan to save the Galician hospitality, it cannot continue to delay this rescue, and it must do so with powerful aid and sufficient resources, since it has budgetary capacity and cannot continue to address the great economic problems that this sector is experiencing. The Galician Union has to increase its budget for the hospitality and so this sector can save its liquidity. In the current context, the situation in the hospitality sector is frankly desperate, with thousands of businesses closed since the state of alarm, with maximum uncertainty about the continuity of the sites that remain open and with thousands of jobs at risk. So from our parliamentary group, we propose to develop an ambitious rescue plan for the hospitality sector to ensure their survival in our community and to speed up this process of aid for the sector. The situation is critical for many of these businesses, which, by no means, stop paying for such expenses as rent, light, water, gas, suppliers' expenses, etc. etc After the first aid plan and now the second, the sector most affected by the cowardly crisis doesn't know how long it can withstand the red numbers left by the pandemic. The measures announced by the Union to support the sector, if I may, have come late, bad and the trail. They came late, badly, and the trail. [[Murmurs.]] And I wonder, in 11,500 million people who have the Budget Board, thanks partly to the Central Government, are they not able to draw up a rescue plan to save the hospitality sector? [[Applause]] Really not in 11.500 million? Are they really not capable? [[Applause]] And as long as the people affected follow the protests. Two weeks ago there was a great demonstration here in Santiago, at the level of all Galicia, to denounce that the aid is clearly insufficient and urge the Board to seriously involve itself in this and to draw a true rescue to the sector to survive the impact of the coronavirus. These claims are from the hospitality sector, these claims are from the hospitality sector. Together you have to listen to the entire hospitality sector. Regardless of the evolution of the pandemic in the coming months, the reality is that the sector that brings together bars, cafes, restaurants and so on, needs a specific rescue plan, an immediate plan that prevents its definitive sinking. At all the meetings that we had with our parliamentary group with the different associations of the hotel, the message that they moved us was the same, and it was very clear: the aid is very insufficient and not agile in their processing. Hostery needs a lot more resources urgently. We can't wait any longer. We want immediate solutions. That's what the inn demands. And in the statements of the hosts and hosts a few days ago in the media: if there is no ransom, we will die. With this cruelty he expressed this sector as it is happening. They need a rescue now. The current situation draws a dark panorama and, for the moment, no rescue plan is known on the part of the Government of Galicia, despite the fact that the Galician Union has budgetary capacity to develop a rescue plan and to expedite funds. [[Applause]] Our hostel can't stand it anymore. I call for unity on the part of all political groups, because this unity is more necessary than ever, unity around the hospitality sector, which needs us all together. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u109	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Mr Pérez López has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u110	President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has registered an amendment to this initiative and with that amendment we intend to update and implement this initiative of the PSdEG. The evolution of the pandemic itself and the decisions taken by the Government of Greece and the Spanish Government themselves require that the initiatives we are presenting in this Parliament be brought to an end at the moment and to the situation in which the different sectors are facing these actions. Only in this way will we be able to lay down effective measures, which at least alleviate the critical situation in which many sectors of our society find themselves productive, and in particular that of housing. And starting with the third point of our amendment, it is necessary to analyze the Royal Decree of extraordinary measures to support business solvency, published only ten days ago. In that royal decree the Government of the State establishes a line of direct aid, from which a part is headed to the hostel, and it was not timeless. Those aids, which are not yet materialized, come more than a year after the onset of the pandemic, and this is, of course, censorable. In our various initiatives in these months, since the BNG we have called for these direct aid, both from the state and from the Galician Union, and for immediate and cumulative efforts to avoid the constant indentation of companies and businesses in the sector that were closing during 2020. It must be remembered that in this sector more than 11,000 jobs have been lost in our country by 2020. If those self-helps and state aid had arrived in the summer the situation of the sector would certainly not be so dramatic, that's the reality. As censorable, from our point of view, the criteria adopted by the Government of the State for the distribution of these funds, contained in the royal decree of law, because they again penalize Galicia. The criteria will be the same as Europe considered to distribute the React-EU funds to the different Member States, and from the BNG we already considered them discriminatory to our country, and we presented alternative proposals for distribution, based on criteria that took into account Galicia's particularities, and we asked the Board to fight for being present in those forums where those decisions were taken. But Mr. Feijóo's government was more concerned with using those unfair criteria as a weapon that would rattle against the Government of the State than with adopting a genuine position of country in the defence of a fair division to Galicia. It is necessary to remember that, in this sense, because of responsibility, the BNG held the hand held towards the Italian executive and already in September last year our national spokesperson stated that, in order to get out of the crisis resulting from the coward, Galicia needed to manage 100 percent of its resources, and therefore I propose that a consensus, a country position be reached, firm, in order to defend before the State the criteria for distribution and management of European funds. A hand held by the German Government for the reconstruction of the country. But that offer was ignored by Mr Feijóo's PP, by the Government, and that despite the fact that throughout this legislation we have proved that the BNG, when it comes to matters relating to the defence of the country, did not hesitate to support the PP's initiatives claiming actions by the Spanish Government in matters of state competence, as could be the lowering of the tourist VAT or the claim of funds for the Xacobeo. In the latter case, reluctantly, it is true, for the final destiny that could be made by them, but by always putting the BNG ahead of Galicia's interests, and that's why we vote in favour of their day. And those muds these muds. Now we find ourselves with that Galicia, by adopting the same distribution criteria as for the React-EU funds, is once again discriminated against by the State in this real decree, and that it is Andalusia, Catalonia and the Community of Madrid that carry the large chunk of cake. The Union once again had a partisan stance, leaving that opportunity to create a common front, a firm position of the country, so that Galicia was not mistreated with the distribution of European funds before, and now with the criteria for sharing the funds of this State's direct aid line, and it does not seem that there is much remedy. Therefore, at this third point of our amendment, we request that the transfer of funds to Galicia be carried out immediately and agilely, and that Galicia be given this royal decree. I understand that it coincides with the content of the first point of the amendment tabled by the PP Parliamentary Group on this PSOE initiative. In the second point, with regard to the part of the funds of this royal decree of extraordinary measures which will go to the inn, what we ask is that they be consensual with a broad representation of the sector. The distribution criteria, in this case, the criteria for distribution which the Union can set within the general parameters established by the Spanish Government, because there is a very important part of the sector that is not being listened to by the Union in making decisions that can be vital to the survival of the Welsh hostage, and this, in view of the diversity and different cases that the sector has, is a serious problem. I believe that no one doubts the legitimacy of the representatives of the sector with which the Board has been meeting, but if there is an important part of the hosts who do not feel represented at those meetings, it is also legitimate to ask them to be heard. And when I talk about an important part of the sector, I refer to associations such as those of the tourist platform Hostalía da Costa da Morte, made up of different associations and entrepreneurs in the area and with 400 partners, or the Galaga Hostalía Defense Platform, which has more than 3,500 partners. If the Union wants to consensualise effective measures towards the sector, it must, at least, meet with the whole sector, and maintain a fluid dialogue with it, of course with the Tourism Cluster and provincial associations, but also associations such as the ones I have just appointed, which represent thousands of families living in the hostel. Learn To Listen, Listen to Learn as says a song by Ramones. Because the feeling that it's part of the hostel is that, more than dialogue, what there is on the part of Joine is a monologue and thus emerges from the discomfort caused in most of the sector by the chaotic and hasty of the February end escalation, which they have stated in the press and in the mouth of their mouth. The Safe Hostage Plan set out measures that were not in line with the sector, which considered the February 25 order as a confusing and distant document to reality, lack of clarity and which affected the guilt of the hosts by the Autonomic Administration. Displaced that established control measures, such as the QR codes, without having prepared the Administration all the tools necessary to meet and speed up adaptation procedures. And, above all, because the control system through that QR code is basically one thing I do about control, because the QR tool in practice will not be effective, at least immediately. Even today in the press, specifically in the voice of Galicia, witnesses from many shipyards said that the QR code didn't use it, referring to customers. People don't use it, they're not for that, maybe some Thursdays, but older people don't know what it is. It's a rare initiative, because we tell them that if they want to register, but they don't understand why, or they say, nobody uses it, the bigger ones because they don't know and the new ones because they don't even realize it. That's another reality, too. The QR system may be a good tool, but you should have talked to the sector first, digitally, and also give it dissemination and promotion among potential users. And to have the Administration a digital logistics that, of course, did not have the Board when he wanted to implement this system. And that shows, nothing more and nothing less, than the lack of joint planning. They had a year to do it well, but the board continues to stumble on the same stone, improvisation. And that mess of the sector was shown in the demonstration of ten days ago that there was in Santiago, which brought together hundreds of hosts who, in addition to the fluid and plural dialogue of the Union with the sector, asked for a real rescue plan, because the lines and programs articulated from March to November by the Board of Galicia had little reception in the sector. Some, like the soft criteria of the Igape, because they were supposed to be indebted when the situation was uncertain. And others, with more acceptance, are true, as the digitisation aid required a previous disbursement for the project and execution and today, almost nine months after it was published, Igape only increased by 50% of the grant, pending the remaining 50%, and taking into account the situation of lack of liquidity this is very serious. And the bad so-called rescue plans 1 and 2, even though they're getting more agile, they're patches that don't compensate for so many months accumulating expenses and losses, and that's for those who were able to access those aids, because many lodgers, by the exact requirements, could no longer do it. That's why it's essential to have a specific real rescue plan for the sector, because specific to the tourism and hospitality sector would be the so-called rescue plan, number one, and that in the end the Union has extended to many other sectors, sectors that also need it, of course, but the hostel, bars, cafes, restaurants, nightlife, concert halls, are being the most punished and feel guilty by the board, which is agile to close their places but not so much to plan and facilitate an orderly and safe opening. That is why we consider this real rescue plan necessary for the hospitality, which must be necessarily consensual, and this is perhaps the most important, with a broad and plural representation of the sector, which prevents it from volatile, and its possibility of a fourth wave, which I hope does not arrive but which, given the data of our own country, and even of the rest of the Spanish State, and even international these last days, is plausible, requires that the Union should anticipate itself and be proactive, and this entails listening to and maintaining a plural, real and honest dialogue with the sector in order to be able to articulate a genuine short- and medium-term rescue plan that guarantees the survival of a sector with very significant direct weight in GDP, but of which many other sectors, such as that of primary sector producers or, for example, the distribution of beverages. And that socially plays an important role, generating movement in our streets, of which trade is directly beneficial. If it falls, the drag effect will affect many other sectors of Galicia. For all this, we will support the initiative of the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, hoping that they will accept our amendment, which, in the same way, we believe enriches the decisive part of its initiative. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u111	Thank you, Mr. Pérez. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Then, by the People's Party, Mr. Verea Fraiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u112	Thank you, President. It is logical that we have already held many sessions, both in plenary and in committee, analysing and discussing the situation of the hospitality sector and other tourist sectors, and the fact is that there are many aspects in which we agree. We agree that it is one of the most affected sectors and therefore one that needs more support. Beyond statistical data, it's something we can see in our day-to-day lives. And we also agree, at least most, that the most effective and efficient measures are the compensating key measures, direct aid or what is known as rescue plans. At the moment that there is a mandatory closure as a result of a health restriction, because there must automatically be an abortion of an amount that must be fair, that must be agile and that must be sufficient to prevent the definitive closure. In this context, the Galician Union called for its rescue plans, and in order to make a fair assessment of these rescue plans we understand that it is important to contextualize them and, above all, compare them with what the rest of the administrations have done. The first rescue plan was convened in November, reached many sectors, and in particular there were specific shares for the hospitality sector, and it was also a plan which was also agreed upon, validated and reached agreement with the sector itself. A plan which, in addition, I put forward one before and one after all that means the administrative processing and administrative management of the Galician Union. Never before has a plan been called so fast after reaching an agreement, never before have budgetary resources been mobilized in such a fast way to reach such a large number of applicants: in the first plan, more than 33,000. And they've never paid any subsidies so fast before. Therefore, a gigantic task and a worthy task on the part of the entire administrative apparatus of the Galician Union. In addition, the frameworks were established in case there was a need to convene new plans, and so it was. In the third wave a second plan needed to be activated, there were the administrative frameworks prepared and that second plan was activated with the same principles of speed in the call after an agreement with the representatives of the sector, a large amount of budget was mobilized to reach many applicants, in this second plan about 44,000, 10,000 more, and with the aim of making payments as fast as possible and the data, about 20 % autonomous, of the self-employed package, is already paid. If we compare the rescue plans of the Galician Union with the plans of the rest of the autonomous communities, we will find that there is no aid package or more agile, no aid package that demands less bureaucracy and less paperwork and, of course, no aid package that is paid as quickly as it is paying for the Galician Union. This parliamentary group and the autonomous administration have always acted with humility and honesty, because when we convene the rescue plans we have already announced that we will need the support of the rest of the administrations, local administrations and the state administration. Even in the second plan we were about... there was a formal offer to get to that joint plan, which we understood was the one, because it would increase budgets, we could add the budgets of all administrations and, besides, we would have a window, a single cancellation, which would facilitate or prevent the pilgrimage of business by all administrations. It is public that this joint plan agreement was not reached because local administrations governed or led by the PSdeG understood that it was not the time, or that it was more appropriate that there were different plans by parts of the different municipalities or of the different deputies. So here's also a time to evaluate those political decisions. The Galician Union has its plans convened, paid its plans and the question we can ask ourselves is whether, for example, Lugo entrepreneurs or Pontevedra entrepreneurs received help from the Deputy of Lugo or the Deputy of Pontevedra. Or if Vigo's businessmen are receiving help from the Vigo Town Hall Rescue Plan. And the answer, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is not, and therefore here are only two conclusions: either that they didn't tell the whole truth when they didn't join the joint plan, or they got wrong, they made a political mistake and what it's worth is correcting it, because it's a political error that has important consequences, because that money that's in the budgets of the deputies or the municipalities is not in the business pocket of the Greek commercial sector. [[Applause]] As for the State Administration, we have also requested from the very beginning that we needed that support from those direct packages, those direct aids. They were doing the rest of the European countries. The State Administration has wagered another scheme, a binomial one, a combination of ERTE and ICO loans. And, we insisted, the third pillar was missing, which was the direct help. And now we're meeting with a business sector with a debt to the limit and at risk of insolvency, and it's now when, a year later, it reacts to the state and announces these direct aid. Direct help which, in addition, is late and bad for Galicia. And why is it bad for Galicia? They are bad for Galicia because, first of all, they do not include all the sectors affected. Many sectors are expressly excluded from this state aid. We're seeing it in the press these days as the different sectors that criticize not being inside these aids are dripping. They're bad help to Galicia because again, when there's an economic breakdown, Galicia is damaged. And, in this case, we received 30 % less of the funds that would be ours. 30 % less than we can calculate with traditional autonomous funding formulas or, as the autonomous associations have done in these days, through the calculation of autonomy. But the average is that we're receiving 30% less money, which is not that they don't receive them anymore, much less the PPdeG or the Galician Union, is that they won't receive it from the Greek businesses, the Greek businesses and the Greek hospitality, which, at least, has the same right as the rest of the businesses, than the hospitality and the businesses of the rest of the autonomous communities. So, Your Honor, we are not going to accept or support your proposal, we propose a replacement amendment that goes on the line I have just commented on, which we will insist on and we want to insist that the funds transferred to Galicia are not enough; we want to insist that the remaining sectors should be incorporated into state aid and we also want to insist on the agility of these state funds. We'd like to have, or we'd like the Autonomic Administration to have these funds already, so we can activate that third plan we're already working on. And also, as a fourth point of our amendment, we propose that bureaucracy be simplified, because we understand that it will generate a lot of management problems. Finally, Your Honor, this parliamentary group has to be honest with its proposals, one of our obligations is to try to place in the public agenda where the real problems are and, frankly, we understand that the rescue plans of the Galician Union are not a real problem to date because they are being convened and if they are paying, what if it is a problem, gentlemen, are those plans of the local administrations of the PSdEG, which either do not exist or are not being paid. What's a problem today are also those state aids that came late, they got bad and again harming Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Verea. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Gallego Sanromán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u114	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know what you're doing very well? Improvise, you improvise phenomenal. The Galician Union is in constant improvisation and this is what the hostiers and the hostesses tell it, this is not said by this Member, the hostesses and the hostesses. They don't have a serious plan to rescue the inn, they improvise, they've been improvising all the time. And so the demonstration of a few days ago demonstrated it. [[Applause]] This government of the People's Party presided over by Mr. Feijóo has to carry out an ambitious rescue plan at the Welsh hostel. There's no ransom right now, there's no ransom. The Union is obliged to rescue the sector, because the powers are from the autonomous Government and it is the Union that makes the health decisions, the one that closes the institutions and the one who has responsibility. The responsibility and competences they intend to derive from the councils and deputies. And the competitions are from the Galician Union, which seems to have forgotten, it seems that we have forgotten. [[Applause]] And by the way, the municipalities are making a huge economic effort since the beginning of this pandemic, a huge economic effort, without competences and no resources. And the municipalities are at the limit, too. In view of this exceptional situation, the Government of the State has made a great effort to maintain the whole of economic activity. The Council of Ministers has approved a plan of reinforcement for the hospitality, tourism and trade with new measures aimed at reducing the situation of companies and self-employed persons related to these activities and meeting their fixed costs, such as wages, leases or tax payments, among others, to enable them to maintain their viability and not be forced to close as a result of the pandemic. The Government of Spain has approved subsidies for the hospitality, tourism and trade amounting to 4,200 million. Those aids are powerful aids, not mere patches. The Galician Union what it does are patches, they're patches. The Government of Spain transferred 735 million euros to the Union last year: 418 for health care, 93 for education and 224 for economic activity. Those 224 million euros from the state that gave the Lost Galician Board of Directors had to be targeted for those affected by the fall in economic activity. Why didn't those millions be used to save the hostel for a rescue plan? Why? [[Applause]] And this year you will receive another 441 million of the European Cohesion and Territories Recovery Funds with the same objective. And these funds must be used to rescue the hostel. Hosting, trade or tourism in general. And in addition to the Council of Ministers last March 12th, it approved a direct aid fund of 7 billion, of which 5 billion will be for the autonomous communities. And the scenario of companies to participate in these aids will be tourism, hospitality and commerce. This, thanks to the approval of the State budgets, is the approval of the State budgets. Galicia accounts for 220 million and we hope that the Galician Council will use them for the rescue of hospitality in our community, and also for the rescue of commerce and tourism. Yes, the millions who don't spend Mr. Feijóo's government will have to return them to the State's archives, and we'll see what happens, and we'll see what happens with those millions. [[Applause]] Let's hope the People's Party Government does its job well and not be returned, let's wait. Of course, if he doesn't do his job well, we already know who's going to blame him, like we don't!, the blame is always for others, it will be for the government of the state, the blame will be for the government of the state. And I wonder what makes Galician Union with all this money coming from the Government of Spain. Please, if anyone can explain, I'd like to thank you. But not only to me, could anyone explain it to the Greeks and to the Greeks, who also want to know what's going on with that money coming from the Government of Spain, where are they? Where's the money? [[Applause]] And to say, I'm running out of time, that we're seeing a deal with BNG, we're there, we're going to pass the text. And the amendment of the PP is not going to be accepted, because the distribution is not done because Pedro Sánchez decides that Galicia deserves no more money, no; there are some indicators that are income, unemployment and youth unemployment, and with those indicators it is how the distribution is done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u115	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u116	Yes, it is. It's very easy this populist speech that you have, that comes to 340 million. No, there are some indicators, which are also those of the EU RAC, that is, it's about unemployment, youth unemployment and income, it's about that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u118	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u119	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-law proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on the shipyards of Navantia, in the Ferrol River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u120	Two amendments were tabled to this bill, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Member, Martín Seco García, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Amendment of amendmentThe resolution of the initiative must be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Ask the Government of Spain:a. The immediate workload for the Navantia shipyards in Ferrol for both the main staff and the auxiliary industry.b. It will develop 100% the Industrial Plan agreed and the 4.0 yard project for railway yard installations.2. Use the competences of autonomy in economics, industry and training for:a. Develop a plan for economic reactivation of the districts of Ferrol, Eume and Ortegal, with serious problems of deindustrialisation.b. To participate more actively in the development of Ferrol Station 4.0, which includes projects for the collection of European funds on the railway yard.c. To carry out a training plan for workers in the sector's auxiliary industry in order to ensure their competitiveness and continuity in the activity of a highly skilled workforce.d. Develop a plan for the collection of industrial activities linked to the marine wind industry, which may include other sectors that are strategic for the region, so that port facilities, communications and industrial soil are used."]] [[(The Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Ramón Fernández Alfonzo, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Add the following text to the resolution:"The Parliament urges the Board of Galicia, in relation to the workload in Navantia rio de Ferrol, to demand the Government of the State:1. The immediate paralysis of the Navantia management plan to transfer Fene facilities to the private company Windar.2. Guarantees that the floating marine wind projects in which Navantia participates will be carried out in the center of Fene.3. It maintains the majority participation of Navantia in the UTE with Windar, or any other company, to ensure a proper economic return, the current position on this market, as well as control over subcontracting of companies, and more on working conditions.4. The immediate adjudication, and immediate execution, of the works of transformation of the ship GALICIA, of the Ministry of Defence, the Navantia river of Ferrol."]] To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. King Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Last March 10 we all supported the general strike in Ferrolterra. The answer to this situation can no longer be institutional declarations, good words, grandoloquent speeches or promises or plans that we know well in Ferrolterra. That is why we are presenting this initiative today, just as another initiative was discussed this morning, because from our group we feel the responsibility, as a majority force of Ferrol and Galicia, to do two things. First of all, to tell the truth, to describe the real situation in which the city and the region are located. And the second one, to propose a solution, because that's what all those who have trusted us to represent them in this House are waiting for us. As they are known, Ferrol is a city linked to the sea for centuries, through the Spanish Navy and the naval sector. This very absolute and so commented dependence on this naval sector passed us in many moments in our history, which undoubtedly increased with the so-called socialist conversions and European vetoes to the old Bazan and Astano, with the transfer of the fleet to the south, and with the delay in the arrival of basic infrastructures, such as the highway, with 20 years of delay, and now the railway, the connection of Ferrol to the railway atlantic axis. As a result of these and other situations, we have already commented on the success of 15,000 inhabitants less in the last twenty years; we now have the same inhabitants as in 1950, and we are the only city in Spain that has lost one third of its population in the last forty years. To this we have to add a data, from our very negative point of view, which is the rate of unemployment, because we have the highest rate of unemployment in all of Galicia; over 5,000 people, from a population of 65,000 people, are unemployed, and being unemployed is hitting a city on the dignity of the people who inhabit it. The latest poverty risk data have just been released. Unfortunately, we have the worst poverty risk data in our recent history: 25% of people living in Ferrol are at risk of poverty, a lot of points above average throughout Galicia. And the worst thing is, whenever we talk about data, it's not the data, it's not the numbers, it's the worst people, a lot of people who've lost their jobs in the last year, and 1,000 people who might lose their jobs in the next few weeks. That's why this motion. I told them two goals: one, to describe the truth; and another, to propose a concrete solution, because we believe that many things can be done before this data, to blame many administrations, but we believe that there is a possible solution and an immediate solution. It's a political solution, and that's why we make a call not to fall into resignation. A resignation that is accompanying us so much in recent times. We believe in Ferrol and the abilities of Ferrol, and that's why we want this concrete solution, which is no less than a ship to counter the absolute dry workload that exists on the steps of our shipyards. Because the truth of the ship is that the steps of our shipyards, one million square meters, are completely empty. The truth is, we're not sure when the first unit of the frigates is going to start about, and it won't be, it won't be that after so many delays the frigates don't start in the promised year, or promised, because each time the calendar is changing, of the year 2022. It's not going to be that what's planned for the year 2022 is a prototype block and not a constructive block, because I'm not a boat specialist, but in Ferrol we all know that a boat, like a house starts with cements, a boat starts with keel, and the truth is that in the production units of Navantia at the moment they're not sure when the CDR is going to be approved, which is what will allow the construction of the frigates to begin and overcome this current situation. And the truth of the ship, as there is no date for the frigates, is that there is no date for the strategic project that goes inextricably together with the frigates, which is that of the modernization of the yard, the known as yard 4.0. I would like to remind you that it was adopted on 12 July 2018 under the chairmanship of Navantia of a ferrolán, of Esteban Vila Sánchez, that it was discontinued a few weeks after approval of this document and that the general budgets of the State had entered into force with the departure of 250 million euros, which were those who had allowed to sign the order of execution and the plan of modernization. Then a few weeks later everything changed. Everything has changed, and they worry a lot that the direction of Navantia, as so many times it happened in our history, looked back south. And really, it's not a reprogramming of the modernization plan, but it's a real delay, because this plan -- I mean, approved by a People's Party Government -- is that the dry dam would start at the end of 2019. It's just that we're in the year 2021 and it's neither dry nor expected! because, first, there's no funding, and second, there's no permits. Moreover, I'll say that the only investment on the project to transform the yard into the state's general budgets, which is who currently finances a 100-percent public yard, depending on the state, is the subloques workshop. And we also find ourselves that the sub-placement workshop at this time has no building license and therefore that game that is drawn in the general state budgets is not going to be run this year, just as the frigate game of 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 was not executed. We're talking about hundreds of millions of public resources that we think we need to unlock more than ever at the moment we find ourselves. And so, a simple and feasible proposal, because, I say, we can argue a lot, we can share blame, we can put on medals, but the truth is there's no workload and 1,000 people can go to the street. And the fastest thing in a 100 percent public yard that works for the Spanish Navy is to charge a ship, because, in addition, the Spanish Navy needs ships. In recent years the Navy has dropped 27 ships, and only 9. This week it was in the press that we were on the 30th anniversary of a famous Spanish Navy ship. Thirty years is precisely the useful time of a ship's life. So these ships are very necessary, so it's very necessary that boat we're setting up. Why do we bring this initiative again? Because it's very important that we approve it here, but that, just like the frigates and that happens to the modernization project, if it's approved here and if it's then not approved in Madrid, we won't finally achieve the goal, which is what I said: the goal of the public representatives is to give solutions and give certainty. That's why we bring her here, because the important thing is that after the decision is made here, that same decision is made in Madrid. And it really is from this group that we want to help them, especially the Socialist Group, to make this decision in Madrid. We will be the first to applaud any Tuesday in April if this decision is made. But as long as it is not adopted, on behalf of the ferrolans, we will continue to insist on making the policy of possible, not the policy of impossible and the policy of promises. The policy of possible is: we are in the worst situation in our recent history, and in the worst situation we need a political decision. Everyone here knows how political decisions are made, if we're not writing political science and governance manuals. No, we know how these decisions are made and therefore we ask that this decision be taken in this Parliament, as representatives of the Greeks, and also in Madrid. We really think this is a reasonable thing, and that Ferrol well deserves it. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Seco García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u123	Thank you, President. By the word and also by the jacket. Well, Mr. King, I want to start by telling you that in July 2018 Rajoy was not ruling, he was ruling Pedro Sánchez already, it's good to remind you that these issues were signed under a Government of Pedro Sánchez, and in which was still the former lord, or the former president of Navantia. They bring back to the plenary once again the failure of the workload in Navantia, which exists until the beginning of the construction of the F-110 frigates, and I suppose this insistence comes from the bad conscience that they have in a problem generated by the abandonment to which Navantia underwent during its seven years of government, two government laws of the People's Party in which financially broke the company, and put in a drawer the projects for Ferrol. And what did the Galician People's Party do and did while that happened? You were silent, Mr. King, always subject to the interests of your party and to the personal interests of Mr. Morenés, with that submission of what awaits you to arrive at your opportunity to take an eager step into Madrid. In the People's Party, instead of being occupied by governing Galicia in time of pandemic, and seeing what they can contribute, they are concerned about opposing the Government of the State. The situation in which Navantia was left, the reason why they had put the F-110 frigate project in a drawer is equal to the situation in which the world naval, the important thing is to try to hide the skills, better said, the incompetence in the industrial policy of the Greek Government, which has refrained from politics in this matter since nothing more and nothing less than 12 years. The situation of the naval sector in times of crisis of the coronavirus we are living seems to them to care less. In the naval defence market, a replanning of the military naval programmes provided for by budgetary adjustments, a fall in the export market and a global trend to protect and develop each country's respective industrial bases with the aim of ensuring sovereignty in the supply chain, and the declines in both the civilian and military sectors are important, with 42% in China, 71% in Japan, 55% in Korea, and up to 97% in Europe, and forecasts indicate that the total impact of the crisis on the maritime industry will be more intense throughout this year. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is the current picture we have in the naval sector and the difficulties we have to work with Navantia for the future since the coronary virus crisis. But let's go back: What was the situation Navantia had in 2018 when you left the Government? We observe the work portfolio of Navantia, that is, the amount of contracts signed during the People's Party governments, Mr Rey, with an intense fall during the period 2012 to 2017, which caused a great financial blow in the company, which is currently financed by Sepi's participatory loans worth some 1,500 million euros. Mr. Rey, the company was in technical breach, it was broken, gentlemen of the People's Party, immersed in the matter of dissolution under the Capital Corporations Act, and held solely and exclusively by the participation loans of Sepi and therefore in a difficult situation caused by incapacity, incompetence and the failure to wager by Navantia of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And that lack of portfolio is now visible in industrial activity, three or four years later, since in the years 2018 and 2019 the defence portfolio was recovered, mainly with the F-110 programme in Ferrol, and OS-80 in Cartagena, from 1,680 million euros in 2017 to 7,747 million euros at the end of 2020. In December 2018, with the current government at the forefront, the 2018-2022 strategic plan was signed with an agreement with the representatives of the workers, with the objectives of achieving the viability of the company, maintaining activity in all workplaces, modernizing processes and installations with the digital transformation lever, relegating the template and adapting it to the needs of the market, despite the situation in which you left the company. Under this government, 100 percent of employment has been maintained, nobody has been fired at all, and new people are being hired at the same time that they retire to older staff, through the ERE agreed with unions in the employment plan, with staff upgrades up to 600 recruits planned for Galicia in the coming years, and which are currently being incorporated into Ferrol 65 workers and junior employees. Since the arrival of the current state government, we have moved away from the company's technical breakdown and the lack of portfolio work to which Ferrol is the largest shipyard in the workforce, with the execution of the largest frigate program in recent years. The last of these periods of work that we are living for auxiliary industries derived from the forgetfulness that the Government of the People's Party of Rajoy has submitted to the project of the new frigates F-110! But we already know how the People's Party works: when it doesn't govern it is dedicated to promising and claiming to then do absolutely nothing of the promised. I won't remind you again where those juicy contracts with Pemex go and the construction of those flaming ships for the Mexican company, or the famous floating dike that they were going to build in Ferrol. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, all smoke! [[Applause]] The result of your passage through the Government of Spain? Break Navantia technique, lack of workload and failure to modernise the Navantia shipyard in Ferrol. Since they want to talk about the failure of the burden of work until the start of the buildings of the frigates, they have to explain to the railways why they had two years in the drawer the project of the F-110 until the arrival of the Socialist Government, which has signed contracts that will involve an investment of more than 4 billion euros to Ferrol, guaranteeing 10 years of workload and creating 7,000 jobs. You will have to tell the auxiliary workers, each time they bring this matter to Parliament, which was the particular interests of Minister Morenés to paralyze the project. Why did the Government of the People's Party so interested in putting MBDA company missiles on the frigates against the Navy's own criteria? And what was the relationship of this company with the Minister Morenés of the People's Party? And after I told you, Mr. King, I ask forgiveness from the citizens of Ferrol. It is less bad that the current government of Sánchez has arrived by unlocking an essential investment for feral citizenship and leaving behind the policies of those who look only for their own interests. According to Navantia itself, the deadlines for the F-110 programme are being met without delay. Few dates have been fulfilled one of the milestones for the approval of the engineering in a program that runs in time and way according to its planning and in the first quarter of 2020 it is planned to start the construction of the frigates. The F-110 program has not yet taken the pace of production because it has a very complex engineering that takes a lot of time, since, among other things, digital twin technologies and artificial intelligence are developing, which suppose prototypes to be designed specifically before entering construction. This technological development is unique in this country right now and is developing in Ferrol. What is supposed to be an investment in innovation that will be exportable to the civil world and that will also allow F-110 to be exported internationally as well, reverting to the Ferrol economy and supporting the productive fabric of the defence industry in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they can add and contribute something positive after leaving the yard as they left it. They can collaborate from the Galician Union to give greater impetus to the 4.0 yard project, as it is collected in the plan itself. They put more resources into our administration, they work from the public policies of the Galician Union, so that the yard gets a bigger workload and new investments, it's within its industrial competences. Or they can continue to be profiled by leaving the State Government and, worst of all, all citizens of abandoned Ferrolterra. They may continue their propaganda policy in the media, but Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal urgently need a plan for their reindustrialization. Because auxiliary companies should have alternatives to work in the area and you are unable to generate and maintain industrial activity. They put aid on the table for auxiliary companies, they can and should do so; and a training plan for workers in this auxiliary sector in order to strengthen the competitiveness of these workers and give continuity in the activity to a highly skilled and deserving workforce. They develop a plan to capture industrial activities linked to the marine wind industry that may include other sectors that are strategic to the region, taking advantage of existing port facilities, communications and industrial soil. Look, we, from the Socialist Party, are not going to do what you do. We'll tell you again that we're going to vote for your proposal again, do it now, and do it as often as necessary. But we ask them once and for one time to join our proposals on their initiative so that, in addition to putting Navantia's duties on them, they do something from their powers of the Galician Union. They can't be leaving behind all the skills they have in industrial matters and they have Galicia in a lamentable situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u124	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u125	Good afternoon. Your support for the strike, Mr. King Varela, was shown by the vote, voting against the motion we tabled this morning. But if you want to continue with that pantomime, there you are. In any case, here is the People's Party's promised initiative on the claim of a BAM for Navantia Ría de Ferrol. They said they'd present this initiative every month and here it is. I have to congratulate you because for once you make a promise in connection with the Ferrol naval sector. Now, we must regret that your commitment to the sector, to Ferrol and to the truth ends here with the introduction of this initiative. [[Applause]] You insist that the charge of this ship would be to avoid redundancies from the staff of the assistants, and that's a lie. It's true that there's a lot of engineering work on this ship that's done and that this would shorten the deadlines for cutting the sheet. But, however, the construction work on this ship would not probably start until after the deadlines currently scheduled for the start of the F-110 frigates. I mean, this claim doesn't work to make a bridge ship, as you say. Even so, we're going to support -- as we always do -- any demand for work load for Navantia Ría de Ferrol because, no matter when the work of this ship could be started, as planned by the Fragat's constructive calendar, it seems clear that there will not be a full occupation of the Ferrol yard until the year 2026. Not to mention the Fene yard, completely underutilized and flattened for many years. We therefore support the demand of this BAM and tabled an amendment to remind them, for example, that we have already voted in this Parliament in favour of asking the Government of the State for the immediate adjudication and commencement of the works of transformation of the Galician ship to the centre of Navantia in the Ferrol River. Some works -- these yes -- that would to some extent prevent the dismissal of auxiliary industry personnel. A work of more than 200,000 hours, planned and budgeted, in the center of Ferrol; but they've been claiming from other centers in Navantia -- Carthagen or Cadiz -- more or less explicitly for months. It is therefore urgent that the Galician Council also complain about this work, that it is urgent that we implement this agreement of the Greek Parliament. But we don't know anything about this, you don't say anything. You could explain to us in your reply what management is taking place in Galician Union to get that important job for Navantia Ría de Ferrol. The general secretaries of the trade unions in the county of Ferrol have just sent a letter to the Minister of Defence claiming this work. Can you believe, show or explain what the Galician Board is doing about this claim? We introduced into our amendment another matter also urgent and very specific. On other occasions, in previous debates -- today you have again insisted on this matter -- you have criticized that our initiatives are very broad and very programmatic, while your intention is to restrict the debate to specific issues, and thus justify your vote against it. Today -- as I said -- in addition to the matter of the Galician ship, which has already been agreed by this Parliament, we have introduced in our amendment a request for the German Parliament to say something and take a position on Navantia's intention to renounce contracts for the floating marine wind turbine in the Ferrol River. An intention that, in practice, will have a very negative impact on the occupation in Fene, because if the floating windmill no longer occupies more than a small part of what would occupy the construction of a large ship, such as those in Navantia Ferrol, the single-country project to which Fene's installations would be destined would occupy even less. It's therefore a very important step back in what jobs refer to, with the add-on, in addition, that Navantia minimizes its participation in the UTE and in the project in favor of Windar, that company so friendly of the People's Party. A new example of what is the design for Navantia Ría de Ferrol that handles both the People's Party and the PSOE: reducing activities and dimensions. In fact, the PSOE claims here today, through its amendment, the fulfilment of the Industrial Plan for Navantia, that industrial plan elaborated entirely by the Government of PP and Mariano Rajoy and which approved without a glance the PSOE of Sánchez just after the motion of censure. That plan is absolutely clear, absolutely crystalline about the reduction of Navantia in the Ferrol River to the military market, and about the lack of initiatives or proposals for Fene installations, as the president of SEPI at the parliamentary headquarters during the PP Government, Mrs Pilar Platero, explained. That plan, by the way, doesn't say anything about the construction of new workshops or dams. So tell us, please, what do you think the contracts for floating marine wind turbines are diverting to Navantia centers in the bay of Cadiz? Just as it is being done, by the way, with the construction of the electrical substations of the current marine wind contracts already with the former Government of the People's Party, apart from contracts with more value added. And they tell us how to match this with the speeches we hear every day about the potential that Galicia has in the marine wind sector. We also approve in this Parliament, at the initiative of the BNG, a proposal for the Galician Board to request entry into the Navantia Board of Directors, so that the Galician Board will be present where all these decisions are made. You can also explain in your reply that management has made the Galician Union to implement this Parliament agreement. Because right now when these decisions are being made so prejudicial to our region, it would be of great importance for the Board of Directors to be present. Where, by the way, decisions are also being made about the future of the Ferrol turbine factory. We will not be tired of insisting on the importance of this division and of resources to introduce it in the field of technologies related to the decarbonization of maritime mobility. It is, therefore, fundamental to the entry of the Galician Union into that board of directors. You are fulfilling that commitment, you are fulfilling, you are implementing these parliamentary agreements, you are asking for or negotiating entry into the Navantia Board of Directors. They set up a table with the Government of the State for the diversification of Navantia in the Ferrol River, for the recovery and diversification of activities in Navantia. They already demand the immediate adjudication and beginning of the transformation works of the Galician ship. Leave the theatre for artists and artists and make politics, government and, above all, value all the immense potentials of Navantia in the Ferrol River. And they don't say they don't accept the amendment because their intention is to agree on a very specific matter. They don't restrict the debate, that in Ferrol we're already full of restrictions. They take position and defend the sector because they are topics of great relevance to employment in the region of Ferrol. Stop bringing initiatives to Parliament to act like they do. We have convinced them of a thousand love initiatives over the next six months. We'll give them our vote in favour of it in advance if you meet some of the ones we've already approved. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u126	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u127	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. To answer some of the questions posed by Mr. Seco and Mr. Fernández. Mr. Seco, the truth is that you just adopted the Ferrol Ship Transformation Plan as your own, July 12, 2018. It is true that he ruled the Socialist Party, but do you believe that the Socialist Party, the new Government of the Socialist Party, with the president who had the previous Government, in days he was able to approve this Plan of Modernization of the yard 4.0 as to get here to put the medal of what was the Socialist Party unlocking the plan of the yard? Look, I'm bringing you another document, because, of course, some of us here are living as the project for the transformation of the yard was born. And we lived all we had to work to get into the 2018 budgets -- which, except for you, I guess few people knew about the motion of censure -- and put in those budgets 250 million for the frigates. Feasibility study. When the feasibility study was approved?, I give you another date: October 2016. But I don't care who ruled, is that you are actually installed in the argumentary and in the past. And really, what we need is to talk about the present and look at 700 people in the Ferrol auxiliary industry who lost their jobs in the last year, to tell them that the fault was Morenés, who was Minister of Defense. I don't know how many years ago. Look, if I'd taken off my argument here, instead of talking about Morenés, because I could talk... do you remember about the Arabian conflict, about the sale of weapons to Arabia? We could talk about what that conflict was supposed to be... that they were about to cancel, cancel the contract signed by Mariano Rajoy with Arabia, for the construction of a series of crows that are being built in Navantia, but in the south. Or we could talk about the repercussions that a certain frigate had had on the United States, and what commercially caused Navantia to make that decision. Because the Navy's decisions, built by the Spanish Navy, are decisions taken by a Council of Ministers. But Navantia also produces for other countries. And look, precisely for all the countries that produce them, they are usually countries that carry certain missiles. But at last, I don't think it's the question of continuing to discuss so many years later, because they've actually been ruling for three years and I don't really know what a missile smoke curtain always comes to, rather than talking about what's going on now and how it can be solved. You could have approved three budgets and could, of course, at least execute the budgets that were approved in 2018. [[Applause]] Look, but can you tell me when Navantia, in recent years, ruling the PSOE or PP, didn't you have any participative credits from SEPI or the Ministry of Industry? But when Navantia had positive results in recent years? No, no, no, let's see, is that 26 years of government of the last 40 years of the PSOE, 14 of the People's Party. Anyway, it's not a question, I say, of medals or confrontations, but, hey, we all know perfectly well how the naval sector works in Ferrol. And look, I ask you too... we're talking about a yard that builds military ships -- then I'll talk about the BNG side, if it gives me time, it'll give me time --. So, no... what now comes the fall of maritime traffic in relation to a yard that builds military ships? [[Murmurs.]] The strategic needs of... you said that the problem of Navantia is that the naval sector has fallen all over the world. No, no, no. It is that the military sector, the strategic needs of the Spanish national defence and international commitments have increased. Therefore, the need for ships has increased. [[Applause]] Look, since it's your document, because it's your modernization plan, because the strategic plan that was approved in December is not the People's Party, uh, that the representative of the BNG knows it. Because the People's Party, which I know, never signed a conversion, never, ever. So we don't feel identified with that document. We feel identified with the modernization plan. And look, in that modernization plan, which then is of the Socialist Party, I am in favour, and that the adjudication of the dike, at the end of 2019, I said it before. And the first frigate in 2020. And what are you talking about two years after a delay to the People's Party when they started two years after Mariano Rajoy left Moncloa? But really, it's not about sharing guilt, we can't share some of the BNG of the marine wind and military sector, you know, we want something specific, we don't want jobs, we want you to do a ship, the Council of Ministers. That is our proposal and we really hope that from here on Thursday we will all do what we can to ensure that this agreement that can be reproduced in this Parliament, is reproduced in the Senate, which is the important one, and that the Government of Spain, whether or not it wants a boat, will do it because Ferrol needs it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u128	Do you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u129	We don't accept the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u130	Don't you accept them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u131	...because they're different proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u132	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. King Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-legislative proposal by G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Mercedes Queixas Zas and two other Members, on the demand of the Greek Government for a strategic plan to recover and boost the commercial activity of the port of Coruña, the central government's bid for the railway connection to the outer port of Langosteira, as well as the management of the forgiveness of debt or similar solution
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u133	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(The People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Mr. Diego Calvo Pousso, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this Bureau the following amendment to this proposal:Replacement amendment The text of the resolution of the proposal must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to demand before the Government of Spain:1.- The firm commitment of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda to include the railway connection to the outer port of Langosteira in the next call (May months) of the next Generation funds.- The termination of the debt of the Port of Coruña or the granting of aid equivalent to its amount.)]] To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u134	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. This next March 31 will be the first cabotage of Serafín Mourelle, a referent of marine culture from his vast experience as a seaman always on foot between Galicia and Ireland, bow and stern of a life intensely linked to his base port, which is the port of the Coruña. Let me bring here today in memory, in his honour, the personal memory of an unforgettable conversation on a very special marine celebration day such as the party of Carmel, especially for those of us who live watching the earth from the sea, as well as looking at the sea from the earth. Serafín affirmed, in a precise and clear account, the intense life of our port coruños, visibly. He told hundreds of boats and lots of fish. An untiring life of jobs and dangers told in ardours, one going and coming from a more common life for so many people in the Coruña and also from all over the region. The sea is not poetry, it's work, and it's effort, it says. And yet he spoke of his sea and our port of the Coruña as a poet that he was. But the truth is, his glass-eyed eyes were no longer recognized in this dwindling and decadent port. Because the port of the Coruña is immersed in a continuous economic regression, unprecedented over the last decade. Some of the factors that explain this despondent balance are the alleged decrease in traffic, without exception, the abandonment of important traffic such as containers, the dependency of down-and-down discharges such as oil or coal, as well as the bet on the traffic of cruises or also the absence of diversification and capture of new markets, as if they have done very well nearby ports such as Ferrol or Vigo's. Reasons that see the reduction in the share of the Coruña port in the state port set. While corrupt harbour traffic -- reports say -- decreases by some 11%, in Spain by more than 20%. A situation that at all lights denotes a lack of attraction capacity for a port that is able to continue to be what it has always been, an important economic motor for the city of Coruña, but for the whole region, as made it bear witness to the master of Serafín Mourelle's memory. But that'll always be so, and when you look at a different management that you've been doing in the last decade, you'll be able to meet your current needs, but, above all, to anticipate the future, to correct the errors of the action plan that brought you precisely to this situation and on which, of course, answers, explanations and also responsibilities should be demanded. The port of Coruña, as a port of State interest, requires a strategic plan that will contribute to a recovery of optimal location to accommodate a wide variety of scales and trade at both national and international levels. In this sense, it is necessary to recover the port connectivity index of the Coruña with other enclosures to dynamize traffic, particularly the emerging traffic of containers, which we cannot and must not give up, capture new flows of merchandise and be the basis of operations that facilitate its international dimension. However, the current portrait offered to us by the Coruña port is severely conditioning its functionality, and this is the fact that it has incurred an accumulated debt of already EUR 302 million, of which 200 are a debt owed to State ports. At this point it is necessary to say that the Port of Coruña is paying interest to the state at 5 % for this debt, becoming, curiously, one of the main income funds of the state. This debt is a mortgage that makes the port of Coruña rates, for example, to be higher than in neighbouring ports, obviously keeping it competitive at the port of Coruña and slowing down its expansion. The BNG has tabled an amendment to the general budgets of the State this year 2021, with an amount of EUR 20 million, to request rail access to the external port in this exercise. A fine which, as we know, did not prosper by voting against, among others, the two parties that co-governing the state. A negative vote which once again translates the null support to a demand which is indispensable and irrevocable to the city and to the Comarca de la Coruña. And we said once again because BNG's amendments with similar content were already rejected by the Government of the People's Party chaired by Mariano Rajoy -- don't forget -- between 2011 and 2018, much of that decade we were talking about at the beginning. In another case, time has shown, with very unfortunate facts at our sight, that galeguity is forgotten mentally or negatively in the streets of Padarnelo for popular or socialists. Since the BNG we have been very critical of the management of the Harbour Authority. In recent years, we have to say this, under the responsibility of Mr. Enrique Losada and, do not forget, appointed by the People's Party of Mr. Feijóo. We wish, by the way, the new president of the port agency, Mr. Fernández Prado, until there are a few comrades in this Chamber, a path of solutions that reverses the gravity of the situation that must now be managed. The recent celebration of the Inter-Administrative Summit in the Port of Coruña is a good news that comes to renew a democratic and institutional abnormality. But from the very first point of view, we have advanced the disappointing valuation made by the BNG, derived from something fundamental: the real lack of commitments by the State to railway access, to which something fundamental is added, too, the refusal to forgive the debt of the port as if it was done, for example, in Valencia or looking for a similar alternative solution. An operation on which it is re-justified once again, and since 2004, the sale of assets from the port, opening the door no, keeping it open to a new urban platoon, which the citizenry of the Coruña has repeatedly stated that it will not tolerate. Motril is the only port of general interest on the Peninsula that lacks rail access. Must this be the sad equation below to Punta Langosteira, to the outer port of the Coruña located in Artexo? We are told a lot of ecological transition, ministry through, and forced to transport the goods, even with a high contaminant potential, in lorries to the heart of the city, with a high environmental impact. Transition is certainly due to the fact that there is a displacement, a displacement, but, of course, ecological at all we think. And while we're back in time for the recent, photogenic headlines, who act as narcotics, the state remains uncompromising at the budgetary level, nor do they have time to run. It is also conditional on access to European funds to a feasibility study now. The construction of the outer port of the Coruña, we did not forget, was a decision of the state. What we can't afford is to spend 1 billion euros on their construction and then let it collapse, incommunicado and inoperative, without railway access. This is inviolable and very difficult to explain to the citizen. A requirement that now also makes the People's Party public, we don't understand that he was a keen and fair claiming exercise that he woke up from Morpheus' arms in which he was sunk during all the years of Mariano Rajoy's rule. Welcome to the agreements in their dual semantic sense. Because it is a vital issue for the city of Coruña, because it is a vital issue for the Comarca of Coruña, and because it is of vital transcendence for the whole of Galicia, we demand this House, of the two parties with responsibilities of intrahistory and in the turn of the port of Coruña to this day, the vote in favour. For the Government of the Union, demand, on the one hand, with urgency, from its representation on the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority of the Crown, a strategic plan for the recovery and impulse of the commercial activity of our port. And secondly, to demand from the State the immediate bidding of the railway connection of the outer port of Langosteira, and to manage the remission of the debt or similar alternative solution. In memory, dear Serafín Mourelle. Like you liked to say, we followed the barovent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u136	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to your intervention and my conclusion is that you had before you heard it. The Galician Nationalist Bloc is late and it is also a matter of hearing. And we're worried that it's late and that it's ringing. It's normal for the opposition to make proposals, that's why it's, but in this matter, it's late, bad, and the trail. Probably because the political debate in the last few weeks has moved between the Council and the Union, the result of the agreements the Minister seems to have reached with President Feijóo, and the Nationalist Block Galego also wants to claim his role. Well, let me explain several things to you. The truth is that we have been talking about the Port Authority of Coruña for a long time in this House, with the former president, with the present one, with the Council of Coruña, and there are many initiatives in this House in which we have already called for the equal treatment of the State with the port of Valencia. It doesn't matter if it's a pardon, if you call it a credit in some way, at least it doesn't matter, that's what we've already claimed on September 11, 2018. By the way, he voted in favour of the People's Party and abstained from the rest of the parties. And on the same day, an initiative of the Tide also asked for forgiveness of the debt or similar and the bid in 2019 -- you did, in 2019 -- from the train to Langosteira. That was adopted unanimously, also with the votes of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party in this House. Anyway, we've been talking and we've reached a lot of agreements and we've been complaining about the same thing for quite a while. In the last few years, we have certainly intensified dialogue and contact with all administrations, and today you bring here an initiative that I think has a certain character of political disloyalty, and I explain it to you. You say you want to carry out or order a business plan, and the truth is, man, this is a little curious. I say this because, for the first time, the new president of the Harbour Authority, our ex-companion until very little, because he thought it was a good star in his position, and he had a meeting with all the spokespersons of the municipal groups of the Town Hall of Coruña, all without exception. It wasn't a formal presentation meeting and a photo, it was a real work meeting, a real work meeting where it was explained what were the things I wanted to do... yes, yes, what were the things that were going to be done at the port, to explain to them what was the situation, what were the projects that were on the table -- you talked about later, Mr. Aranguena -- the paths that were going to be studied in the coming months, you gave them advance what was the business plan and what I had planned to do, and also the business plan that was needed to do and in what sense you had to focus on. The truth is, even the previous month, on January 12, there was a Board of Directors representing all the administrations, advisors of all the administrations, and we also spoke of this business plan. The Councillors have been given a note, and also the press release after the board of directors of the port authority. So, you, from this meeting of your spokesperson to the president of the Harbour Authority talking about what the needs are, from there to 20 days they present an initiative in this House asking for a business plan to be made... Man, it doesn't stop being... it looks like we're going to ask for it so it looks like if it's done, it's done thanks to the Galician Nationalist Block. So I have to tell you about it and I have to tell you what the truth is, because in this crisis, which we used to talk about the naval sector, if there's something that you've resented, it's not the orders of the Ministry of Defence to Navantia but it's the naval traffic, actually, the traffic that there is by sea, better said, for you to understand. And then the containers do have a special meaning and other traffics that are not children that you referred to when you were talking about the traffic and the reduction of some of the traffic in the port of Coruña. But look, about the train to Langosteira, you again arrive late on this matter, because they've been missing for a number of years. We spoke before it was agreed in this Parliament by all the groups to bid the train to the Langosteira tip, unanimously from all groups, always, we also claimed it, now and before. I think you had a little lapse when you thought or meant we didn't. But you were the ones who made president of Sánchez, you were the ones who, with that picture between Adriana and Ana, were going to fix all the problems in the world, mainly all the problems that were in Galicia, because that picture for you was the most important one, and we saw -- yes, I know you don't like it -- how they thanked him. The municipalities were handed over in Galicia, many municipalities where the Socialist Party was not even the first political force. They handed over the deputies, they made the president of the Government to Sánchez, and what did they get in return? For all those claims and those photos were useless, because at a meeting between Avalos and Feijóo, there was more progress than with government pacts, photos, investments and numerous initiatives that have been presented. And that's the truth, and what do you want me to tell you? This is the way the Socialist Party has thanked the Galician Nationalist Block. The truth is, the meeting of President Feijóo with the Minister of Transport last March 10 seems to be -- it seems -- that he unlocked the railway connection, and there was neither the Block nor the banners, nor was there any initiative. The Government of Spain -- I repeat -- assumed for the first time the construction of access to Langosteira. He took a first step, which is not a guarantee that he will do, but he has taken a first step, it will not be me who defends Mr. Abalos, they have to understand, but he has taken a first step. It is true, and the most important thing is that funding said it had to deal with any kind of funds, mainly European funds. It has been achieved that the ministry unlinked the execution of this debt management infrastructure that currently weighs on the corunais port, and that it is shown to be open to all administrations involved in the search for solutions that ensure port viability. In addition, there has been a schedule of meetings, which will be next April. In the morning you discuss the usefulness of such meetings. Well, let's trust, we're not totally confident, but, of course, I think we have to continue at the next meeting because of responsibility. It is true that the commitment reached by Minister Abalos implies a clear change of position, a clear change of position regarding what had happened a few weeks earlier, because a few weeks earlier, in Maria Pita's palace, the Mayor of the Crown summoned different institutions there, and in that call, where several socialist representatives were present, including the president of Adif, among them the President of State Ports, and among them the Secretary of State of the Ministry, at that meeting the socialist representatives decided to question the situation of the port of Coruña and decided to question that in this situation it was not clear that there would be a railway access to the Langosteira. This was a few weeks earlier. It's true that a few days from there Minister Abbalos corrected us, and probably the ones he told them a week ago, with President Feijóo changed his mind and I don't know if he went by the photo or by what he was, changed his mind, and now the ministry says that we have to take care of the bidding of that train to the outside port. We ask them to take one step together, one step further. Since the minister says that we have to deal with the bidding of rail access to the external port, what we ask is that in the next call, in our amendment of the next generation funds, includes this project. It is true that at that meeting in Maria Pita he said that he did not meet the conditions for inclusion and already the Board's report this same week said that he did, that he fulfilled the conditions, that he was included in the resilience recovery plan that the Government had sent to Brussels and that he perfectly fits into the European Commission's regulations on next generation funds. That's why we want to take one more step, I suppose they will agree with us, because what we ask them is that you ask those people to vote with those who rule in municipalities, in deputies and that they wouldn't be anything without you, they wouldn't be anything without you. And we ask these people to ask them to be nothing without the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Get the train to Langosteira in the European funds or break the governments. Tell them to lower their rates or break their governments. I think it's worth reducing the rates in Galicia in exchange for a chair in a county or a deputation. It would probably be highly rewarded by the people, but that's what the Galician Nationalist Block is not willing to do. We would, but they're not our partners, no, they're not our partners, they're their partners. They're their partners, not ours, and that's what I know they don't like. And finished with the debt. We agree that how it was done with Valencia can be done in the Coruña and also how it happened on the train. And one last idea, Mr. President, I ask the Socialist Party not to point out again, that what happened the other day at Maria Pita, when Mr. Abalos' envoys said and questioned the train to Langosteira, the train to the outer port of Langosteira, was something that has never been done, that is not questionable, I agree with what Mrs. Complaints said, there is an infrastructure of a billion euros, and now what we have to do is make it viable and competitive. To make it viable and competitive, we have to ensure that the train, rail access, arrives as soon as possible. We ask them to commit themselves today, to take one more step and to go together, and to vote the same here and in Madrid. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u137	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Complaints. Oh, sorry! Sorry! It was with this distraction. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u138	Mr. Calvo, with all due respect, they tell the experts that in order to count them seriously, at least they have to have a certain basis. And, of course, the things you told us today are not to believe them, nor are you. So here we are told that Mr. Martín Fernández Prado, which, of course, we wish him the greatest of the successes, has had a meeting, exalts and enhances this fact as if with wages -- by the way, that he is not exactly low -- that Mr. Martín Prado has not had to do... the first thing he has to do when he arrives is to meet with everyone, but not only those who have done it, with a lot more people, he has to do so many more things and with a meeting they won't solve the problems of the outer port of Coruña, which are serious and complex to arrange. And by the way, you say that Mr. Feijóo went to Madrid and he arranged, I don't know what, that's a complete nonsense. The results that were achieved at the first meeting were already in writing, all that was prepared to take over the Ministry of, previously Fomento, now Mobility, after that first meeting in the Council of the Crown, at which certain progress was made. Don't tell us that Mr. Feijóo has achieved anything that hasn't been achieved before in the Coruña, because it's not true. And allow me to exercise positive and inclusive corunaism, telling them we don't talk about any port or any city in this matter. The port of the Coruña was, most probably before the arrival of the Romans, the Portus Magnus Artabrorum, that large port of the arches of what the classical geographers were talking about, which arrived by sea Julius Caesar in 62 B.C.E. It was, then, one of the few Roman ports of the Peninsula. In 1520 King Charles I of Spain and V of Germany departed from the port of the Coruña through a door that still exists to buy, the golden coup, the empire, the title of emperor and, subsequently, in 1799, Alexander von Humboldt left the Coruña to discover the world, for pointing out only some remarkable facts from the port of my city. And I say all this because the port of Coruña, like the city of Coruña, are neither a port nor any city, but a port and a city with a story as powerful as its geography. And we know that the external port of Coruña project has to do with the Prestige disaster, with the plastic threads that Rajoy was talking about, and with Fraga going hunting with two advisors as the ship sank. [[Applause]] Among them, by the way, Mr. Carlos del Alamo, who is now senior executive of Ence, a perfect example of what he understands by economics to circulate Galicia's PP. But before the Prestige was the Exeo Sea, which I remember as it placed itself almost at the foot of the Tower of Hercules, and before it was the Urquiola and therefore there was an objective necessity, unsatisfied to equip the Coruña from an outer port. And that's why this project was driven, which in its day has been defined as a work at the limit of technical and economic viability. A phrase that defines the port situation very well from the beginning. An outside port at the limit in its beginning and an outside port, I must also say, at the limit 17 years later, because in those 17 years it has changed the country and the world in many ways. The economic joy of the year 2004 no longer exists, nor does it seem foreseeable that it will return. The real estate bubble exploded and with a public debt of around 120 percent of GDP, public resources today are much less scarce than in 2004, when it was about the third. But more has happened in those 17 years. The promises of a logistics center for all of Europe, which, as Mr. Feijóo said in precipitate in 2012, were to build Pemex in Punta Langosteira, they remained in nothing. Yes, with holders like this: Pemex plans to invest 57 million in a hydrocarbon plant in A Coruña. Like this and a lot more, in the precaution of the 2012 autonomics. And they also said that the investment of 270 million euros that the Chinese group Beijing 3 was going to make on the outside port, according to former president Rajoy published the bomb and plate in a public event held in Moncloa with the assistance of the president of the Harbour Authority, who also remained at nothing. Here, more headlines: The Chinese investment of Beijing 3 in Punta Langosteira will be made in 3 years. 2012 Autonomics Campaign. And after all that nothing, none of the PP's promises to the outside port, zero potato, as my comrade Martín Seco said, smokes. Smoke is what you've done on the outside port and on the outside port. By the way, a president of the Harbour Authority until very recently, Mr. Losada, who was appointed by Mr. Feijóo saying he was a great manager, although he had no experience in the world of logistics, not much less of port logistics, nor had he any commercial experience. An ex-president to whom the State Court of Auditors claims EUR 690,000 for irregularities in port contracts. We wish you luck, by the way. And that led to the loss of European funding and also to the fact that the Court of Auditors itself had issued a very hard report in 2017. And now there is a new president, appointed also by Mr Feijóo, who has the majority and control of the Board of Directors of the Coruña Port, a new president, former MP Martín Fernández Prado, whom I have told you that you must wish very much success, but, being the port a great company of great importance, Mr Prado has neither training nor experience related to ports or to the business world, which does not prevent you from saying things like the outside port without a train is a formula 1 without wheels. As a headline, the problem is that journalistic headlines are not going to solve the problems of the port, which are many and many of them related to the mismanagement of the Harbour Authority in the last decade. Since Mr. Feijóo's governments appoint their president, they have a majority on the Board of Directors. A prestigious economist, former president of Galicia, former president of State Ports, such as Fernando González Laxe, spoke in a recent article -- and I quote literally -- of the desolate balance of the Coruña Port in the last decade. He said the Coruña Port has lost the container market, fell into all kinds of traffic, its relative position in Spain has been reduced and disappeared from UNCTAD's ranking, which is the most representative in the world in terms of ports. And so the participation of the Coruña Port within the Spanish ensemble has decreased, decreasing by 11.5% in that period while those of Spain increase by 20.7% in the same period. In another article I remembered Laxe that in terms of infrastructure we have to make this clear, it's very important that the offer doesn't generate its own demand. That is, in simpler terms, building an infrastructure does not guarantee at all that infrastructure is going to be used. And in another article, he was talking about something even more worrying if he fits in, the tendency to close refineries around the world, which goes from the hand of the energy transition process that is taking place right now in an accelerated manner. As for the problem of debt, this year began in theory the payment of the debt of 200 million contracted with the ministry, which has already opened to a moratorium -- without the mediation of Feijóo, by the way -- to a moratorium until 2035. This means directly avoiding the breach of the port, because if you had to deal with that initial payment of 2 million a year, 4 a second and so on progressively, with a benefit that runs between half a million and a million euros a year, you couldn't even face the first payment. And, moreover, since 2017, a loan from the European Investment Bank is being returned, which leaves 104 million to be paid, at a rate of 3.5 million to 2026, a year in which 9 million will have to be paid each year. And in order to face that payment, the port would have to multiply between 10 and 20 times the average profit of the last few years, which is today a real chimera. So the port and Mr. Fernández Prado have to catch a lot of traffic and they have to do it urgently, and for that it takes the train, of course. And we demand that the train be made, but we also need a commercial management that has not existed in the last decade, apart from the smoke that Mr Feijó sold on an industrial scale. If there is a train but there is no commercial management, the port will not benefit and it will be difficult or impossible for the EIB to give the same payment facilities as the ministry. So we have 5 years to give a complete and radical change to the management of the Harbour Authority and find traffic or alternatives of some kind to a port that is seriously underutilized today, and we have to form a consortium between all administrations because all administrations are involved and must be involved in a first-level problem. And we have a large port company that intends to move to an external port that is finished but has no traffic or expectations today that replace the fantasies of the former president, the unmet promises of Feijóo, who through the Council of Galicia I remember that appoints the port president and controls his Board of Directors. So, who has to assume their responsibilities to take out a port that is vital to the Crown, in addition to the rest of the administrations, is also the Cunta de Galicia, a port vital to The Crown but also vital to Galicia, which has serious problems. Let's not cheat on the lonely with these serious problems and face them with a sense of country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u139	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u140	Congratulations, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Calvo, I'm not going to thank you for explaining things to me as you have said, because I'm much more humble and modest and I think I'm going to share them with all the comrades and comrades of this House. [[Applause]] Secondly, I believe that really here who comes late is the People's Party, because it was who has been all these years, I said it before, between 2011 and 2018, with responsibilities, with government commitments in the state, and did nothing at all, but it saw, moreover, impassable as the absolute defeat of the Coruña port manifested itself year after year on continuously negative scales. And I insist, he did absolutely nothing, who could have done it. [[Applause]] Indeed, it is absolutely inexplicable and it is also inexplicable that in all those years, between 2011 and 2018, they were unable to have such an operational meeting, as beneficial to the port of the Crown as they had now suddenly at a single meeting. What a shame to lose 7 years of our life! [[Applause]] We bring this GNP here because, of course, we work for a gift of solutions, not for a gift in which you, popular and socialist, keep to the head. The president of the Port of Coruña is justified by a singular sort of -- let me say it -- alternating current, as something seems to move in political action with the change of governments, the People's Party, the Socialist Party, but then at the bottom it's all in an alternation of acronyms to continue in a situation of static current, i.e. immobilist and immobilizer, which does not lead us anywhere. And that's how we are, sacrificing a city, a region and a whole country. [[Applause]] Memory fails but the real hemerotheque that always acts. And they put us in a position at this time when someone -- you know who -- brought an Atlantic freight corridor across Galicia from the map. Maybe we're already invited to become independent. Or he completely ignored demanding solutions for the Coruña Port to which he had to demand them. [[Applause]] Of course, if I may, I end up thinking that the centralist delirium is dry, it doesn't know about the sea. The Galician Union and the Ministry of Development signed back in 2018 -- by the way, then yes, to the municipal government, as if it had no responsibilities in urban policy -- a protocol that defended the vigil of the controversial and rejected by the citizenship of the Crown agreements of 2004. That involved, of course, automatically selling directly assets from the port to devote them to urban purposes to finance the external port. Of course, in an urbanized area with dwellings only accessible to a few, as it should be. During the signing of the protocol, Feijóo claimed that he compromised an economic approach of 20 million euros. As always, a photo, a headline. A perfect statement of intentions you've never heard since 2018. What was this agreement between the same, between governments and friends as they like to say so much in the PP? The usual one: full paralysis, that's what the acronym represents. [[Applause]] Now we're re-editing a new scene, entertaining us with new press rounds, photographs and conversations, meetings that seem to be hyperoperative. Previously Feijo-Iñigo de la Serna, now Feijo-Abalos, why? To say that everything is exactly in the same place, at the same dead spot. There is absolutely nothing forward because there are no dates and no budget commitments running. And in the meantime, the only thing is that the railway connection to the outer port of Punta Langosteira, in the county of Artexo, we don't forget either, it is vital, we know, to ensure the operation of this infrastructure and to ensure, in addition, connectivity with the Atlantic corridor and European networks of commodities. Because, indeed, we are neither want nor are we going to allow it to fall off the map. At the moment, the only firm commitment, collected in writing in response to questions from the BNG deputy at the Congress, Néstor Rego, is explicitly the intention of the president of Ports of the State to carry out a restructuring of the Port Authority's debt with a moratorium -- that no forgiveness, simply adjourned it -- until 2035. And, of course, again linking it to the sale of port assets for urban, speculative purposes. They continue with the same theme as 2018 and as of 2004. So zero advances. On the other hand, it was also communicated in writing -- I insist -- the intention to demand the extension of the environmental impact declaration, which, in effect for 5 years, expires next June, with all that it means to continue delaying any possible and hypothetical beginning of works. And it also commits to analyzing a study of economic and financial viability by the Harbour Authority. We follow the same thing: zero progress. So, at that meeting of the 23rd F -- a well-marked date -- the Galician Union and the Harbour Authority are being urged to work within the scope of their competences to ensure that the port is viable, increasing maritime traffic levels. Let's stay on hold because nothing's compromised. Scan -- to finish -- the reality of the Coruña port, diagnosed, it is necessary to inoculate as soon as the active principles that return the Coruña port to the hands of the work. They assume their responsibilities and competences from the Government of the United States and from the Central Government. They stop sharing ineptitudes, jeopardizing the industrial and commercial potential of the port of Coruña, and act once again laying the foundations to liquidate a completely alien mortgage to the corrupt citizenship that represents an aggravating compared to Galicia. It takes the forgiveness of debt, as was done in Valencia, with the necessary tools, to free ourselves from that sword of Damocles, and from the excuse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u142	...that this space has to be sold to build houses -- I insist -- that they can only buy a few. -- I'm done, Mr. President. Also, to build the Coruña and the port of the future, we urgently need this railway connection to the outer port, because if there is no one there will be companies that will never be installed in this port, and we will not be able to free all that space that connects us to the sea. Let us work, please, for a present of solutions. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Do you accept the amendment of the People's Group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u144	We want to make a deal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-03-23-DSPG029.u145	Perfect. Thank you. That transaction is pending, and here it is for today. We'll hold until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
