ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. It justifies inattentiveness today, Mr. Diego Calvo Pouso. And we'll just go in on the agenda. As a first point, it is the legislative text: Debate and vote on the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, of the draft law of the Greek Statistical Plan 2022-2026
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u2	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are maintained. The President of Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños, has the floor for the presentation of the Commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u3	Good morning. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on September 3, 2021. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 7 September 2021, ordered its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, and hearing the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 3rd Commission on Economics, Farms and Budgets. The parliamentary groups did not present amendments to the whole and, speaking of the partial amendments, the Nationalist Block Galego made fifty-three amendments, and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, forty-four, which were qualified on October 18, 2021. The 3rd Commission on Economics, Farms and Budgets, at its meeting on October 29, 2021, appointed the presentation. At the meetings of 19 and 23 November 2021 the presentation studied the articulated text of the project together with the amendments submitted, and completed its report, which contains the recommendations it made to the Commission, consisting of the adoption of Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 7, 11 and 13 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, and paragraphs 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and 33 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The approval of seven transactional amendments was also recommended. The Commission, meeting on 29 November 2021, adopted the motion for a resolution by a majority. Finally, the text of the statement that the debate and voting in the plenary shall be submitted at this session shall consist of an explanatory statement, followed by twenty-five articles, an additional provision, a transitional provision, a derogation provision, two finals and three annexes. Thank you for the work of the Judiciary Services and parliamentary groups, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We begin the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The importance of statistics is already covered by the Galician Autonomy Statute itself, where it is included as an exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community. In 1988 — i.e. thirty-three years ago — the Galicia Statistics Act was adopted, a law which already includes in its Article 2 what is meant by statistical activity, and which says that it is the compilation, processing and systematic management of quantifiable information; the publication and dissemination of the results necessary or useful for quantitative knowledge; the analysis of the demographic, agricultural, fisheries, industrial, commercial, financial, services, social, cultural and environmental conditions of Galicia; and, in general, any matter relating to the living conditions, purposes and competences of the Autonomous Community. Since statistics is then a useful tool for citizenship as a whole, which provides quantitative information to be able to exercise our rights, having an understanding of the socio-economic reality of our territory, facilitating comparison, enhancing the creation of knowledge, guiding the generation of wealth and well-being and favoring decision-making. Since the adoption of the Act in 1988, five Greek statistical plans have been approved, the first quarter and the next five years. These plans are the tool for managing and planning statistical activity in the period under review and for establishing the objectives, strategies and actions for the production of the statistics required in the population set in order to reach the most objective and complete possible knowledge of the socio-economic reality of our Community. For the development and materialization of these plans, our Community has the Galego Institute of Statistics, an autonomous body which exercises the direction and coordination of the statistical activity in Galicia. And we also count on the Galego Statistical Council, the highest consultative body in the statistical activity of the Autonomous Community to ensure the participation of social agents. The Socialists very much appreciate the work done by the Galego Statistical Council and the work done by the Galego Statistical Institute. For us, the data published by the IGE are one of the main sources used to develop our daily work; data that we use in virtually all parliamentary debates as support for our arguments, data that in many cases paradoxically are questioned or transformed by the German Government itself or by the People's Party Parliamentary Group, something that should not happen, since the data is data and therefore is not questionable. For example, we socialists use the statistical data published by the IGE when we ensure that the demographic decline in our country has been one of the most worrying issues for many years. Look, IGE data tells us that since 2009 we've lost more than 101,000 people in our community and we have 2021 277,621 people under 40 years of age than we had in 2009. I mean, if we made a division and made an average exactly the same for every year, we would be losing the order of 8,500 people a year. And according to the latest data also published by the IGE for 2021 of the inhabitants we have in our country, because we have 15.67% under 20 years of age, while 25.76% are people over 65; that is, we have ten points over 65 years of age compared to those under 20. These are quantitative data and are therefore not questionable. And what is the conclusion? That in twelve years of government Feijóo nothing has been done to reverse this situation. Quantitative data is needed to draw conclusions but also to search for solutions, but the German Government takes a lot more time to deny data than to search for solutions. If in the light of this data there were effective public policies that would prevent the emigration of our youth, so that those who left would return or make our country attractive so that they would come from outside, because the results would surely be different. The data initially serves to diagnose us and then they become used to evaluate the policies applied. Look, the German Government itself already recognized in its own Strategic Plan 2014-2020 that Galicia must create attractive living conditions for the population as the only way to cope with solutions to poor fertility or aging or emigration of youth to more dynamic territories, without a year after completion of this plan having taken important steps to reverse this situation in view of quantitative data. In this sense, it seems to us that taking into account our amendment, the amendment tabled by the Socialists, Amendment No 34, since knowing the reality of living in our country is the first step in implementing measures that facilitate access to it, essentially for the younger population, one of the most important measures after the quality employment for the settlement. So our amendment 34 in which, in section 2.7, of housing, we ask for a more comprehensive study of the reality of our country's housing, with goals like occupied, empty housing park, in property and rent and first-living evictions. Finally, it was negotiated with another amendment tabled by the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and where it reached the following goal: housing park, equipment and characteristics; question that we thank and that we understand that this text improves a lot. In the same sense of the fight against depopulation, the Socialists consider it a shame that the Group of the People's Party did not allow our amendment 41 to prosper, since we understand that the current Strategic Plan 2015-2020 already sets the transversal objective, territorial cohesion and the fixing of the population in rural areas. So we ask that this amendment set itself a goal to affect the knowledge of the quantitative statistics set out in the measurements of each of the strategic objectives; important data for the knowledge of the results to be applied to these measures. We asked Amendment No 41 to add a new area, called Plans and Programs of the Galician Union, where three sections would be included. One first, with the Galician Statistical Plan 2015-2020; one second, with the Galician Strategic Plan 2021-2030, which the Welsh Government has announced will be approved shortly, we understand that in the 2022 exercise; and one last, in which the plans and programs of the Galician Union would be established. And, therefore, we would be aware of the entire population as a whole of the result of those measures that are established for each of the objectives set out in the various strategic plans. Today when we talk about population it's unthinkable not to make a gender breakdown. But today it is also necessary to make a breakdown of rural and urban life, since reality tells us that, above all, when we talk about women, there are substantial differences in living conditions or working conditions between women living in rural areas and women living in urban areas, so it is a pity that the majority group of the House has an amendment tabled by our group in which we simply ask to add a new paragraph in the exhibition of reasons and that it also places the introduction of the variable "greed of urbanization" in all studies carried out on women. Well, the bill of the Greek Statistical Plan 2022-2026 presented to us by the Government of Greece consists of twenty-five articles, a single additional provision, a transitional provision, a derogation provision and two last provisions, with three attachments, a first that is the thematic structure, a second of goals and information and a third of consolidated statistical operations and activities. Well, we socialists present forty-four amendments, eight to the articulated and thirty-six to the annexes, of which six were accepted and five dealt, that is, 25% of those presented. We are grateful for its inclusion, since we understand that the amendments tabled by the Socialists improve the law, give it greater transparency, annual information in the Greek Parliament of the country's statistical activity, it is established that the statistical secret goes beyond the end of the agreements, agreements or contracts, as well as the inclusion of a series of information goals that we socialists consider necessary. For example, in Amendment No 33, section 2.6, of culture, sport and leisure, we ask you to incorporate the goal of sports equipment and resources, something that was not included and we welcome that it is accepted by the majority group of this chamber. We also tabled Amendment 35, which was also accepted by the majority group, which is in section 3.1 of the agricultural sector, so with a transaction, it adds "sacrifice of livestock and other productions and animal yields." Amendment 38 to section 3.6 was also accepted, public administrations and other non-market services, with a transaction that ultimately remains with "resources and expenses of the Greek public administrations", a topic that also for the socialists is of fundamental importance to their knowledge. Or Amendment 39, section 3.7, markets and prices, which are established, thanks to our approach, "prices in the productive sectors." However, we have to regret that amendments were rejected that from our point of view were also important and that we do not understand why they were not incorporated. A group of amendments that were presented by the Socialist Group simply set a general goal for each of the sections, which we believe would enrich those attachments, setting out what is the general objective for each of them. Another amendment to which we expressly request in section 3.1 the occupation in the primary sector broken down by sex and the generational relief. It is true that it has been negotiated, but it seems to us of vital importance that this issue should be taken into account when developing these statistical goals. We also find it important and we are also sorry that Amendment No 29, which is section 1.1, of territory and natural resources, did not take into account, in which Socialists are asking for something that we understand fundamental also in the matter of population and also in the subject of population settlement, and it is to establish a map of services in the territory of Greece. Amendment 32 to section 2.5 of social conditions was also rejected, in which we ask that in the case of Risga if you had a statistic on approved applications, accepted, denied, waiting lists, the number of perceivers and the conditions of life. Amendment 37 was also rejected, section 3.3, of energy and industry, where we asked for two targets: renewable and non-renewable energies, and fuel prices. Amendment 38 to section 3.5 of the market services was also rejected, in which we are asking for goals that seem very important to us, essentially after having experienced the situation of the pandemic of the Covid-19, and which has mainly affected trade. We call for targets in retail trade, small trade and large areas, proximity trade, rural tourism and also the inclusion of banking commissions, credits granted, branches of financial institutions in Galicia and indicators of accessibility of the population to financial services. And finally, Amendment 42, in Section 4.2, concerning science and technology, on which we asked for public spending targets to be introduced in R & D+i, the number of patents, the investigator's staff and R & D+i in small and medium-sized enterprises. Companies are changing and statistics need to change according to these new realities, adapt to new moments to continue to be that useful and fundamental instrument for citizenship. For my part on this shift, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again to all and to all. Welcome also to the Government of Greece for this processing of this sixth plan. Well, in his day, American sociologist and writer Alvin Toffler, author of Future Shock, said that he anticipated and thought as no one about the technological changes of the second half of the 20th century and how his brutal impact on society would be that knowledge is the most democratic source of power. By making this reflection, it is necessary to point out, in the thread of the process of this new plan, the importance of this scientific discipline for Greek society, the importance of statistics as an instrument of self-government and also as an instrument, ultimately, democratic. Because knowing more and better reality strengthens the exercise of democracy, both by giving more capacity for correctness and attinuity to governments and institutions of all kinds, as well as by giving more knowledge to the citizenry to judge and demand those institutions what they should do. So for the Galego Nationalist Block, this new plan, its processing, must suppose a leap, a step further in the maturation of a Welsh statistic that is self-centered and designed to be useful to the Greek people. Perhaps between the emergency marabunta that has to address this parliament within the framework of a pandemic and an unprecedented economic crisis because of its characteristics, the processing of a legislative text that at least 75% are procedural and methodological issues may seem of lesser importance. On the contrary, however, at this very moment in which we process this text, we think that the context reveals the need for a stronger statistical tool. First, because of the importance of developing a self-government tool that we should take care of; secondly, because we are in a context of changes that also requires us to meet new needs and new working rhythms. I would like to remind you that for 40 years now Article 27 of the Statute of Self-Government gives our country exclusive jurisdiction over the organisation of self-government institutions and the statistics for the purposes of the Community. It's been thirty-eight years since the first decree that created the Galician Statistical Information Centre and thirty-three that this parliament approved its first statistical law. This is important to remember because it shows that we have already gone a path that is not smaller and, therefore, brought into the current context, shows how it would also play a greater leap, because Galicia is strategic to have good statistical information, it's a strategic issue as a country. That's why we don't present at the moment a refund amendment, because we understand that because of its characteristics this law has an important part of method and procedure, which has already been improved throughout our history, which is a consolidated, professional work and which has also an important consensus not only technical, but also political. Besides, the slow pace of the pandemic months makes approval very adjusted over time, because we're already in mid-December. But, in any case, we have made numerous moves in the process of partial amendments, seeking a very clear objective, which is a qualitative leap in the statistical process of our country. In this spirit, in the spirit of seeking a stronger, more useful statistic and a greater transfer of knowledge to society and public policies, this parliamentary group has presented a total of fifty-three partial amendments (late to the joint and thirty-six to the annexes). They accepted, as already remembered, seven to the articulated and we also reached four transactions in the attachments. We would like to thank the majority parliamentary group, and there are aspects we understand that enrich the text or correct the absence. That congratulates us. But we also have to say that it seems insufficient and that the qualitative leap that would correspond to this moment in which — I insist — there is already a ripening of the statistical work of more than thirty years and there is a historic moment that demands from us also the acceleration of the responses that are given to the profound transformations that go fast, that affect the economic and social environment and that require rethinking what instruments we have, how we employ them and how we update them. So I'd like to make a comment on the amendments. The acceptance of paragraph 1 in Article 4 seems to be important to us. We were concerned about the loss of the role of this parliament, the connection with this parliament disappeared, and we believe it is important to shield it and strengthen it. I would also like to stress the acceptance of Amendment No. 3 to highlight the public character of the Greek statistical system, which, with the wish of the People's Party for the privatization of our instruments, is never too much. We regret, however, that Amendment No 12 is not accepted, for example, that it seeks to give priority to the application of this plan in the execution of programmes in the public domain, and that when it is not done it is subject to the deliberations and consideration of the Galego Statistical Council. Others of the amendments accepted, such as 2, 4 or 11, give more clarity to the text and we understand that it also reinforces the socialization of statistical work. But we have to say that, in general, the main objection we have to the final outcome, which, except for surprises, we will see today, is the People's Party's refusal to approve those amendments which precisely put the focus beyond what is already being done and which could entail qualitative progress or also the commitment to statistics that we have judged absolutely necessary in this new context. For example, we regret that in Article 8, which is where quality objectives are arbitrated, there are no two proposals that will make us incorporate both the perspective of gender and social knowledge. First of all, the perspective of gender as a measurement also of the quality of statistical work, because we understand that we need to commit ourselves to moving methodologically forward in measuring the impact of gender and the different realities as well as of gender and gender, which is something that the same equality report made by the competent board warned of the difficulties in this area, the shadows that exist and that have to sit down to analyze them. We wonder why not be vanguarded in analyzing this reality as well. We learn from feminism that what is not named does not exist, nor does what is not measured. Secondly, regarding social knowledge, we understand that we are at a time when we have to get out of Excel to the street and move the knowledge that is generated at the Galego Institute of Statistics with more momentum towards society. To that end, we propose something as absolutely revolutionary as the media and social media are improved, the dissemination campaigns are carried out, and there is greater collaboration with entities that can disseminate statistical work. But the majority group says that the perspective of gender and social knowledge are not an element of quality, and from then on we disagree, we understand that these are areas that will remain lame. In the same way, we regret that there are, in particular, two additional provisions that we propose from the Galician Nationalist Block that are not accepted, and we intend with them to shield the commitment to two statistics or to confront them in this economic context, where we know, in addition, that we are the women who are the most going to pay the pandemic of coward-19, which are fundamental and precisely deepen on that historical line that we have not been women a priority for statistical science either. First of all, this is the case with the satellite household production account, which we have already brought to this parliament on other occasions. It is unacceptable that since 2013 we have not had a measurement by the Galego Institute of Statistics of how much in our economy the invisible work of care, the invisible work of the home. The last estimate — I want to remind you that you have data 11 years ago, which was published in 2013 even though the data are 11 years ago — told us that it would be about 50.6% of our country's gross domestic product. We insist that this should be a priority. Apologies that we need to adapt to the European state calendar or that are very expensive seem to us to be insufficient. What we say is that if the state and Europe go slow on this issue and it is not a priority, we exercise our self-government. Let's say that for Galicia if it is a priority to study this area, and therefore instead of putting so many ties and candles on the 40th anniversary of the Statute, we use one of the little powers that gives us and say that if we want to measure the value of care, because without care there is no life. [[Applause]] Secondly, I would also like to mention that we propose to periodically stabilize within the public system the macro-enquisition of protection over gender violence. The Board, after several years of negatives, has recently drawn up one again; it has done so with private media, not even hung up the entire report on the website, the entire documentation, its summary of results, and, of course, we understand that it is deeply scientific and sterile, which gives for a press round of the advisor but little more. What we have to encourage is the comparability of data and therefore it should be consolidated and professionalized, and for that we have the Galego Institute of Statistics, where, moreover, it is also introduced, if other data from the Autonomous Community are compared, such as the number of aids, its volume, etc. So we don't understand this refusal, and we also warn that it is a missed opportunity for this country to continue to move forward in favour of the fight against masculine violence, and, in addition, doing so in an advanced way with respect to other territories. Finally, I would also like to make a brief mention of the additions that we have incorporated into the annexes, that section of the law where information goals appear, and where we basically list absences that we understand are serious and unjustifiable in the Greek statistical field. We accept, through four transactions, issues that seem important to us and will be incorporated specifically: the study of water prices; housing statistics will be improved; housing statistics will be incorporated or maintained — better said — the area of aquaculture, which disappeared from the initial project; and there seems to be also a commitment to study the area of energy prices, which is one of the most important economic problems for homes and for small and medium-sized enterprises in this country. However, we understand that, nevertheless, despite this acceptance of these four areas, it adds to the absences, and I would like to point out some as well. A reflection that was already taking place at the beginning of my intervention: we are in a pandemic and, of course, it gives the feeling, seeing this law, that the pandemic exists but it's like water and oil with respect to the Galego Institute of Statistics. The fact is, of course, that the statistics we already have provide information on the impact of the pandemic, but we understand that we would have to incorporate in a transitional way specific goals that allow us to make an analysis of the impact of covid-19 in a broader way in areas such as the education system and the health system and the impact on the health of the population, on the market itself, on working conditions, on social conditions and living materials, for example, specific statistics for a specific historical moment. From our point of view, we also lack goals that enable us to meet the challenges that we have ahead. That is why we insist on the start of this intervention in the reflection on anticipation. So, there are areas such as mobility and energy transition, the practical needs and costs of this area, or the research and innovation transfer in the productive fabric of basic research that we understand are elements in which this country has to wager, and that, if we do not measure how we are, we can hardly hit the path to where we are going. And I would also like to make a reflection on the absence of these information goals in the field of equality. We, of course, started that we will be a more feminist Galician if we also intervene with a real knowledge of what we have in the country. In that sense, we propose that we incorporate, for example, a survey of the reasons for motherhood and paternity, and that we know what really leads people in this country to because they have no children, because there is a concern on the part of the People's Parliamentary Group and the party that supports the Government to permanently hold us responsible for women, which is also good that in this country if men were asked, in general, to all people, why don't they make that decision, because then we had some surprise. [[Applause]] In this same sense, we understand that there are realities that we cannot close our eyes by a conception too crossed by the Catholicism of this country. On the one hand, everything that has to do with trans reality and, on the other hand, everything that has to do with selected monoparentity. In that sense, in addition to deepening this statistic, we also intend that in our amendments this blocking situation of the Galego Register of Single-parent Families, which has not only been developed by the Board for ten years, but that in its own Demographic Impulse Law they would re-enter that measure and already comply with the deadline they enabled. We therefore regret that this matter is not dealt with either. Finally, to point out that for us there are no targets to address and to be able to democratically exercise the rights of our analysis, as I say, to deal specifically with the process of privatization and dismantling of the public system. And I want to set examples. We have recently seen this demoler report from the Board of Auditors telling us that since 2009 you have already cut around two thousand five hundred teachers and teachers of public education; the Board of Auditors says so, does not tell the BNG; and of course, from our point of view, that explains that you do not want to incorporate more comprehensive goals to address, for example, the direct and indirect transfer of public spending to private education, or the loss of teachers or other elements such as ratios. Again, we have examples of issues that hide this parliament, like everything that refers to ratios in urban contexts. In any case, serve this example. We also propose specific goals for health and public service, etc., to put a question into context. We use the technical argument that they are too specific targets and under the umbrella of broader goals that could already be done by these statistics, but from then on it covers the background political position, which are areas that are really not being studied, and so we reflect on it in this way in the debate. In conclusion, to finish, as I was beginning, from the BNG we believe in what Toffler said that knowledge is the most democratic source of power. That's why we understand that in order to know statistical science, this new plan is fundamental. We do not want to deny it: it brings up important issues for the collective knowledge of the country, but we understand that we also miss an opportunity to jump forward, a qualitative leap in a historical context that will demand us faster, more efficiency and more anticipation. So our sense of vote will be, if there is no change in that sense, that of abstention. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Let me begin my speech with a quote from British physicist and mathematician William Thomson that says that what is not measured cannot be improved and what is not improved is always degraded. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the bill of the Greek Statistical Plan for the five-year period 2022-2026. It was in 1997 when the first Statistical Plan was adopted in this parliament, and today, twenty-four years later, we are debating the content of the sixth plan, with the aim of consolidating and expanding the achievements achieved in the five previous plans and with the objective of planning, obtaining and disseminating information of interest to Galicia. We're talking about statistics, and it's not usual that this is a matter of parliamentary debate in itself, when the reality is that all the rest of the interventions, initiatives, bills, government control actions, ultimately, our daily work as parliamentarians is based on statistical information. For that reason, I would like to see the short time we spend today in this science serve at least to give us a joint reflection on the importance of public statistical activity and also its link with democracy. The image, the picture of the reality that the statistics offer, should serve as a tool for governments to make appropriate political decisions, but also for every citizen, every one of the Greeks to be informed about the outcome of these policies, whether or not they get the different administrations. It's true that data doesn't change the world in itself, but it makes that change possible, identifying needs and measuring progress. We need quality data, reliable and contrasting, in a world that is characterized, not by fake news, by a growing trend towards instant information, whose quality is unaccredited. If, in addition to being of quality, these data are accessible, as is the case with the information provided by the Galego Institute of Statistics, these data enable citizens to make changes, activate auditing accounts, and are -- it should be emphasized today -- an exercise of transparency. Finally, we must see official statistical production as a public good, as an essential public good for governance in democratic societies and also as a public good for the citizen's control of Government action. In Galicia we are heirs of the statutory forecast that has made statistics an exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community. The drafters of the Autonomy Statute made it clear that the information provided to us from the Central Administration would not be sufficient for the exercise of good self-government and included in Article 27.6 the exclusive competence of the statistics of Greek interest. The first stone was thus placed in the construction of an own Greek statistical system, which was further consolidated from 1988 with the approval of the Greek Statistics Act. However, Galicia already had previous examples of statistical uncertainty, such as the Regional Observatory created by Professor Bernardo Pena Trapero in the 1970s or with the creation of the Galician Statistical Information Centre in 1984. With the approval of the law now in force, the competence collected in the Statute is developed, the obligation is laid down to plan and measure the results achieved and the statistical organisation of the Autonomous Community is configured. The Galego Institute of Statistics, the statistical bodies of the councils and the Galego Council of Statistics are thus created. The IGE is the central part of the statistical organization, and its main function is to direct and coordinate Galicia's statistical activity. The statistical bodies of the council, for their part, run the statistics on their scope of action; and in this debate we must remember the importance of these bodies, those of the councils, within the Greek statistical realization, since they are usually not put into value, since they do a work as it is not visible to society, when reality is that their contribution to the Greek public statistics is essential. And finally, the Galego Statistical Council, as a body for the participation of social agents, where business, trade union, professional organizations, universities, local administration and since 2011, and on the initiative of the People's Government, also parliamentary groups. While at the time of the creation of the IGE, it was affixed by its own production, with Parliament's approval of the first plan in the period 1998-2001, it was a qualitative leap. Since then, decisions on statistical matters depend not only on the political impulse of the Government that corresponds to them, but on a rule of law approved by the representatives of the citizen, before which accounts must be held. During this period, official statistics were growing, improving and expanding the demographic, social, economic, cultural and environmental information of Galicia. It was a stage of major changes in the ways of doing, measuring reality and disseminating the results of statistics. And today, after more than thirty-three years of activity, I believe that there is a broad consensus — and so it was expressed in the previous speeches by the spokesmen — that the IGE has reached a high level of prestige, independence, professionalism and usefulness for the whole of Galician society. It's one of the most established autonomous institutions that has allowed us to make autonomous politics and defend our self-government. If we remember, we will remember how the IGE has always relied on the support of the People's Parliamentary Group, especially at a delicate time of its trajectory, as when after the publication of the Report for the Reform of Public Administrations — known as the Cora Report — it has in some way questioned the need for a decentralized statistical system, or how when in the processes of rationalization of the self-government public sector itself it has come to formulate its possible fusion with other autonomous entities. At that time, this parliamentary group — the People's Group — supported those proposals that made a savings to public buildings without losing their effectiveness. But — and here is the important thing — he did not accept any measure affecting or cutting our Community's self-government institutions. Moreover, with this objective we advocate the need to maintain and consolidate institutions such as Meteogalicia, the People's Value, the Board of Auditors or the Advisory Council, and of course — and as I have already indicated — the continuity and independence of the Galego Institute of Statistics. And we want to put that fact in value this very year in which we have attained the 40th anniversary of the Statute, because the defense of self-government also goes through the defense of our autonomous institutions. And now that we celebrate this 40th anniversary, it's a pity not all political groups value what I have proposed for the development of Autonomy the approval of the Statute and the creation of such entities as the IGE. Ladies and gentlemen, today's plan seeks to create and disseminate statistical knowledge for the next five years, meets the current needs of citizens, public and private institutions, and consolidates and expands the objectives and methods achieved in previous plans. I recall again in this plenary our unforgettable Valeriano Martínez when the presentation at the Galego Statistical Council of this plan underlined that this plan will deepen in transparency, quality and accessibility of information. In this line, the new plan expressly assumes the code of conduct of good European practices, and this fact will assume that our statistical organisation will be subject to its principles and the Greek Government will promote and respect them; principles such as the professional independence of statistical staff, impartiality, objectivity of information, effectiveness, quality and transparency. [[Applause]] Another objective for the new plan will be to integrate administrative information into statistical processes, so that citizens are not to be asked for that information already in the hands of the Administration. This procedure will prevent unnecessary surveys, which are always annoying, costs will be reduced and data will be provided in time and form necessary for decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has left us many lessons and, among them, the need for statistical information that comes in time to make the appropriate decisions; and with this new way of working one seeks to achieve that objective. Similarly, the new plan will strengthen interoperability between administrations in order to increase their efficiency. Let us remember that the IGE not only works, but also in collaboration with the European statistical system — which is Eurostat —, with the national — the INE — or with the northern one of Portugal — as pioneers in giving harmonised data on a euro region. The relationship of the IGE with other systems, in particular INE, has always been presided over by loyalty and non-duality; an idea which affects the presentation of reasons for this plan, which maintains the principle of efficient use of public resources. And there is the definition of own statistics collected in the text as the one executed to expand the information on Galicia provided by other statistical systems. Thus, the IGE takes advantage of all existing information, seeing the above-mentioned Eurostat and INE, but also other sources, such as the Tax Agenda, Social Security or universities, and uses the available resources to expand this information. They also pursue the new plan improvements in the accessibility of information, the dissemination of information through reusable formats, so that they can work more easily on it, and at this point I have to value the IGE website. Since its launch, this website has been incorporating technological advances, such as multitables, graphs and measurement maps or APIs, which has made it, more than simply a broadcast tool, into a customization and information retrieval application. The improvement is continuous and the IGE continues to work on the accessibility of its website, for example today to allow it to be displayed from mobile phones. But there is no doubt that it has already become a very good and useful tool for society, as believed by the 40,000 average visits it receives a month or the twenty million information it receives a year. Another novelty of the plan will be the generation of information related to the challenges of the Strategic Plan Galicia 2021-2030, with the objective of sustainable development of Agenda 2020-2030 or — very important — with the monitoring and evaluation of public policies. And to finish, highlight as a relevant aspect of the plan the introduction of the age perspective to address the demographic decline. Including for the first time in Galicia's statistical planning this perspective will involve an extra effort to the statistical system but will favor demographic analysis and decision-making in this area. It is summed up in the perspective of gender, which was already present in the statistics of Greece since the adoption of Law 7/2004, of equality of women and men. And I use it to remember at this point that Galicia was a pioneer in gender considerations in the surveys, since at the state level this obligation was not settled until three years later. I've concluded this first shift, ladies and gentlemen. This plan, which we are expected to adopt today, is for everyone and for all. It is from this parliament, where we are debating it today, where we will make use of the outcome of its work continuously in our debates and where we will be aware of its evaluation once it has been completed. It's from the IGE itself and the statistical bodies of the councils, who will execute it. It's from the German Government, which will develop it through the annual programs. And above all, it's from the Greeks and the Greeks, because having a good public statistical system like ours will allow the self-government to succeed and take the proper course of the country and succeed in making political decisions that affect citizens. Nothing else on this first shift, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Sanz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments of the other groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to start my second intervention as I finished the previous one. We believe that statistics must adapt to the social and economic changes of our country to serve as a basis for studying the evolution of societies. And I'm going to make my own the words spoken by Mrs Sanz in which she says, "What you don't measure can't be improved." That is why we socialists present an important number of amendments in which we propose different new goals that make it clear the need to introduce them into statistical work; that is, to take into account these new goals in order to be able to study the new society, the new socio-economic reality of our country, and to serve as a basis for the search for new solutions. Socialists propose to measure living conditions, economic and social living conditions, especially in the case of women in rural and urban realities. The establishment of a map of services in the territory, which we believe is fundamental to implementing measures that avoid this population depopulation that I referred to in my first intervention. We asked for targets for statistics on the prices of the productive sectors, public expenditure in R & D+i, research staff, investment in R & D+i by small and medium-sized enterprises. A study of renewable and non-renewable energy, as well as fuel prices, and sports resources equipment. I mean, we intend that with the goals that we present, if statistics improve, that knowledge of that reality, measure that reality of what Mrs Sanz spoke to us about in her speech. Well, within a mouse, we're going to vote on this legislative text, and we're still in time for the Greek Government to be able to introduce some of these amendments which we consider essential and which is a mistake that is not taken into account. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block, we have anticipated our vote in favour. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all. Well, with the Galego Institute of Statistics to the People's Party, it's a little bit like self-government: you put them in their mouths, but then at the time of truth it's like a Chinese jug to look at but not use it. [[Applause]] And look, you can follow your attempt to position yourself out of the claim of this Statute that you then do not use or apply or develop, that we will continue with consistency and firmly claiming the Statute that was most important to this country, which was this 1936 Statute, mostly endorsed by the Galician society, that Statute of Casal, of Bóveda, of Miramontes and without whose base we would have no self-government instruments like this Galego Institute of Statistics. [[Applause]] What bothers me the most, in honour of this concrete debate of the Statistical Plan, is that, of course, you are now doing an eraser of history, not only of this country's self-government claims, but also of the history of the People's Party's trajectory with regard to the real attitude towards the Galego Institute of Statistics. Because I want to remember that in the draft law on rationalization of the autonomic public sector — as reference was made here — there was this appearance of the Galego Institute of Statistics and its fusion with CIXTEC, which not only has completely different functions but would have assumed the loss of its autonomy. It was the amendments to the opposition that prevented this nonsense. And, of course, it shows that when you correct and when you hear it sometimes you're right. So even before voting, you're in time to fit in by incorporating some more amendment from the opposition groups, because, of course, it would be important for this country. For example, those that have to do with the connection of IGE to society. Because it's good to claim the need to have an IGE of us, self-centered in Galicia, but of course, if we ask the Greeks and Greeks if they know about the IGE, I'd like to know what the answer is. This instrument has to be socialized and it has to be known. The People's Valley, which is our neighbour, is used because society is aware that it has that instrument. And what we propose is to move forward in that direction. A few years ago, in the previous legislation, in the framework of a parliamentary debate -- it reminds me, I don't remember if it was our dear Valerian, if it was Vice President Conde, who was there a few minutes ago in this chamber, or if it was the spokesperson of the People's Party -- someone accused us of the opposition that we didn't even know the IGE, something that gave to many later jokes. It would be good to apply the story to us and try to ensure that the Greek society had more knowledge and participation in this instrument. Simply insist — to finish — on two brief questions. Earlier, when I mentioned the process of demeanoring the civil service — this demolitioner report of the Board of Auditors — Mr. Corgos raised his eyebrows. I wanted to insist: there is no commitment for the statistical field to study this area more often, that it really does study what happens and that we don't have to wait for the last bull's reports from the Board of Auditors. And I also wanted to point out — I mentioned the spokesperson of the People's Party — that Galicia had been pioneering on her day when it incorporated the gender perspective into statistics. But two questions. First, to continue to be pioneers, you have to be exact; for that, there are methodological problems to solve and you have to address them; there are realities that are not being studied and that must be studied. And, of course, for that, what you can't do is try to do more with less. And, therefore, in the face of excuses that the domestic production survey is expensive, we continue to insist: it must be done, it is a scandal that does not have that commitment. Because you also violate your own laws. I've talked before about how the Demographic Impulse Law is breached and how their Family Law is breached, when you were already closer to Vox than it seemed. But it is also a matter of failure to comply with the law-making decree itself, which states in Article 29(3) literally: "the competent labour council shall draw up a satellite account where the economic value of domestic care and community work carried out by women and men will be quantified and give the aforementioned economic quantification the appropriate social publicity." So I buy you the quote that what you don't measure cannot be improved, and, of course, if you don't measure what is the invisible approach that women make to the economy and this unsustainable economic system, we can't value it or move forward in equality. [[Applause]] We therefore understand that such matters as these, if they are not incorporated, are for lack of political will and therefore — I insist — our vote cannot change from abstention to a favorable vote, because it says one thing but then applies another. And so there's a path that's not going to go on in this processing, and it's an opportunity soon lost in a context of changes that also requires us to rethink tools like the IGE to have greater anticipation capacity. And, therefore, we will remain in that abstention. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Very briefly. With regard to the amendments tabled by the opposition groups to the Plan of Law of the Greek Statistical Plan for the period 2022-2026, I would like to make a few considerations in advance. We are faced with a text that is essentially technical. No amendments were made to the whole text. In the vote on the motion for a resolution in the Committee, the opposition groups did not vote against but abstained, and, despite what we have just seen, the spirit of consensus and agreement on partial amendments was maximum on the part of this parliamentary group of the People's Group. We accept six amendments from the Socialist Group and we deal with five others; on the other hand, in relation to BNG, we accept seven and we also deal with four. First of all, it should be noted that the incorporation of the amendments accepted or negotiated with the groups will allow the general objectives of information to be extended to the five-year period and the targets, thus programming statistics on such diverse emissions as aquaculture, the housing park, resources and expenditure in public administrations, or, for example, in animal production and yields, very important today, for example, for milk production statistics. Even so, it was negotiated with both groups to hold a specific appearance of the Director of the IGE at parliamentary headquarters to report on the evaluation report of the plan. Let us remember that in the first part of my speech we were talking about the importance of transparency in the management of official statistics, so this parliamentary group will always be in favour of any proposal that this objective involves. We also accepted Amendment No. 3 of the BNG, which called for the incorporation of the term "public" to define the Greek statistical system. And we accept it because what this parliamentary group stands for is the importance of strengthening and consolidating our own statistical system, which is a public system. For their part, the reason why most of the amendments were rejected — as explained in detail in the Commission — was basically technical, well because the amendments proposed goals that were already included in the text itself and their acceptance would imply unnecessary overlaps or duplications or either because they proposed as new targets when the text of the amendment was actually specific statistics to satisfy them and then they could not be technically accepted as they were drafted, or because the content of the amendments was already collected in the text but in articles other than the amended ones, as happened with the amendment that proposes the personal investigator's access to statistical information or the amendment of addition to gender violence, which are but in other articles. Having said this, ladies and gentlemen, I have already concluded by expressing my gratitude to the opposition groups and to the services of the House for their work, for their closeness and for their cordiality, and leaving express record of my satisfaction with the broad consensus reached in the process of this bill at all and those points where technically it was possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that public statistics contribute to making a better world, and consequently the more solid and impartial information we have, as provided by the Galego Institute of Statistics, we will achieve better society. And I end with a wish: may we be an ever more open, transparent and informed Galicia, because that will contribute to making a better Galicia among all. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Sanz. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Murmurs.]] A little calm. It's not the first time I've waited for someone. A little calm. [[Laughter]] Aren't you coming? [[Murmurs.]] Okay. We vote. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u17	We voted on the amendments and we voted on the legislative text, in particular the amendments maintained and the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, of the draft law of the Greek Statistical Plan 2022-2026. First of all, we are voting on amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of amendments to the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farm and Budgets, of the Bill of the Italian Statistical Plan 2022-2026. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u18	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting of amendments to the G.P. of the Nationalist Bloc Galego a Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, of the Bill of the Greek Statistical Plan 2022-2026. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u19	And now we are voting on the Commission's ruling on the amendments incorporated. We vote. Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, of the Bill of the Italian Statistical Plan 2022-2026. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved or issued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u20	The vote is over here. And we move on to the second point of the agenda, which is that of appearances. Opinion of the Councillor for the Rural Environment, on his own request, to report on the assessment and results of the forest fire prevention plan for 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u21	Mr. José González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. After the fire season was over, it was time to come to the house of all the Greeks and Greeks to transfer official data on the fires of this 2021 and also to speak of the state of the service of the competent general management and of the strategy of this council. I'll start this show today with a series of figures that I strongly ask you to remember during my intervention; we'll talk later. 954, 135, 207 and 273. On the basis of this data — since I will soon find out what they are related to — I would like to reiterate a request that I moved here in May 2019: that, in the face of a transcendental issue such as forest fires, ladies and gentlemen, we must seek consensus and flee from disjunctives. In my opinion — and I am sure that in all of you — the fires have to stay out of the partisan fighting and we have to be able to reach agreements on solutions that will allow us to tackle this structural problem of Galicia. And to show these agreements — and I will refer to it during this meeting, as I do on many occasions — the 2018 Fire Commission with a dictatorship which was approved by the three fourths of Parliament in Galicia. And in that regard, before I go into breaking down the fire campaign figures of this 2021 and taking into account the actions of the Government of Greece, I want to record my intention to have a calm but enriching debate, with their assessments and contributions, seeking to improve the operation of the device. A device made up of nearly 3,000 women and men, to whom I want from here to transfer my gratitude and that of all the Greek society, because they are the defenders of our mountains and our people and people in the face of forest fires. [[Applause]] Starting, gentlemen, from the basis that the mountain burns because the incendiaries burn it, it is true that in Galicia the fight against forest fires inevitably passes through the management of the territory. We must defend the sustainable agricultural, livestock and forest use of our Earth as a formula for generating value-added economic activity, but also as the best natural fire in the face of forest fires. And in this area of action — as you know — we move the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia and the Forest Plan 2021-2040, legal instruments that put upon the table the necessary management of uses, the diversification of our land and the recovery of land land to fight against the main enemy of the Greek countryside that is nothing but abandonment. And I would like to remind you that this year, 2022, we are also bringing to this Parliament two new laws on this line: the comprehensive fight against forest fires in Galicia, of which I shall then speak in this appearance, and the Food Quality Act, which must be the brooch that surrounds that quality of our agricultural production. After this introduction, I will structure my intervention in four fundamental areas: in a detailed analysis of the fire season of the year 2021; in the work on the improvements of the device in this also 2021, and since 2017; in structural prevention, with particular reference to the Village Protection Convention; and I will also refer to the process of drafting the Comprehensive Fight against Forest Fires Act in Galicia. The first one, and my appearance here today, is to account for the 2021 forest fire campaign. The data I'm going to give you allow us to have a certain optimism for the future, although I also want to make it clear that we are not going to fall into any kind of triumphalism. As long as Galicia burns a single hectare, we won't be in line. But it's true, ladies and gentlemen, that the data from 2021 and also the trend that these data are showing, as I say, allow us to have a certain optimism in the fight against forest fires. Look, to give that data, I'm going to use the goals that mark the Pladiga, which they know are seven. The first of them is the total burnt surface. The goal was to reduce the average of the total burnt area as compared to the average of the last ten years, which is 19,986 hectares. Well, the total surface burned to date in the year 2021 is 4,371 acres; that is, it's four times better than the average of the last ten years. If we refer to the burnt tree surface, we see that the target we had in the last ten years as well was 7,394 and that the burnt tree surface in this period, in 2021, is 2,268. I mean, three times better than the average of the last ten years. Another important goal is the surface burned by fire. In this case, the average of the last ten years was 6.7 hectares, and this year 2021 we reached 4.58 hectares. The size of the fires. According to official statistics, within the fires, you have to differentiate between conate, burning and fire. The most important thing you know is the fire, which is more than half acres of wooded surface or more than acres of the whole thing. The objective, in this case, that fixed the Pladiga was double: to maintain the number of fires with a surface area above 25 hectares below the total annual 2%, and in this case 2021 we are at 1.99%, and at the same time to maintain the percentage of fires smaller than or equal to one hectare above 70%. Well, in this case, we've reached 81.55% of fires below a hectare. There's another, another important figure of what I was talking about at first, which is 954; 954 are the forest fires that we have so far had in the year 2021, counting, as I say, fires, cones and fires. It's the first time, gentlemen, in the historical series we've come down from a thousand fires. The average series since 1989 is 6,745 per year. And if we take care of the last ten years, we see that we were in 2,800. Well, in the 2018-2021 period, the average fell to a little more than 1,300, that is, 20% of the historical average. There's a trend, ladies and gentlemen, clear to the decrease in the number of forest fires in Galicia. This has to do with the good work of the device in the fight against fires, with the awareness of citizens - and I thank them very much for that awareness - but also for the measures taken - which, I repeat, come from a parliamentary consensus - are producing effects. And I quote, by putting some in place, the launch of the free telephone fight tells the incendiaries 900 815085, the increase in technology media in the deterrence of cameras and the use of drones, or the very important creation this same year of the Forest Fire Research Unit, which is doing an exceptional job in the investigation of the cause of fires. There's another very hopeful data, which is that of the 954 -- which told them -- forest fires that we have this year, they only turned into fires -- that is, those of more than one hectare of total surface area and/or 0.5 hectares of wooded surface -- 135. That is, only 14 percent of this year's fires have turned into fires, which gives a clear idea of the effectiveness of the device and its time of reaction. The data are what they are, and after four consecutive years recording figures showing a significant decrease in the number of fires in our community, we can no longer speak of good luck or good weather, we're talking about a trend that is the fruit of the good work of all the entities involved, along with the operation of the measures taken. I remind you again that these measures are endorsed by a parliamentary consensus. And I'm not going to make an interested use of data that are good for the whole of our country. The fact of putting them in manifesto is an obligation derived from the government's own action -- we came here to make it manifest -- and we should encourage all of us and all of us to follow the path marked by the good results achieved. To the thread of this, and entering the second of the issues that today wanted to move you here, in the campaign of this year 2021, related to this and talking about the operation of the device, the efforts invested in human and material means with a device very similar to that of previous years, 3,000 men and women, but with more time of the presence of the troops on the territory. I am very interested to highlight the bet on a public, professional, versatile and, above all, effective forest firefighting device. And I'm also interested in pointing out that the 984 staff did discontinuate moved from working three months in 2017 to doing it six months today, doubling their working time. On the other hand, this increase in personnel, along with the creation of the Sub-Direction of Prevention, within the Directorate-General for Defence of the Mountain, has allowed us, they are permitting us, the deployment of an important work of prevention in our territory. Even today, while I'm coming in, there's a total of 250 operators in the territory, 41 tractors, plus heavy machinery as motorcycles, bulldozers and backhoes, preparing and conditioning the runways towards the next summer. Prevention, ladies and gentlemen, at any time of the year. Another important novelty this year -- I've talked about it before -- was the creation of the Galician Forest Fire Research Unit; 15 agents exclusively dedicated to research, focusing also on coordination and collaboration with the National and National Autonomic Police, the Civil Guard, the Army, and with judges and prosecutors. It should also be remembered, within these improvements, that the video surveillance network is being consolidated with cameras approaching 70% of the territory and with the use, for dissuasive purposes, of drones in surveillance by the Galician Fire Prevention and Extinction Service. And let me tell you about two important projects that will take place between this year and next year, first of all, the Interlumes project, which involves the creation of a cross-border air base in Monterrey, one of the most affected by forest fires in all of Galicia. And second, the Integral Center for Fighting the Light, because training for staff is also prevention. This integral center of Fight Against Light will be located in the Town Hall of Toén, Ourense province, the most affected by forest fires; a true forest campus that will count on the greatest specialists in the behavior and analysis of fires. The works of this center are now starting in the same year 2021 and will continue throughout 2022. And at this point, I want to invest a moment of this appearance in clarifying the budgets for 2022 for prevention and extinction. From the total budget of the Council for the coming year - which, if you remember, was about EUR 630 million - more than EUR 207 million is intended for prevention, the third of the figures I mentioned earlier. Practically one third of the Council's budgets are intended for prevention. And with this, I want there to be no doubt about what you invest in prevention and extinction. It's 207 million euros in prevention, compared to nearly 91 million euros for extinction: 2/3 prevention and 1/3 extinction. So no one can say that the German Government does not give priority to prevention. This leads me to talk about the third of the issues that I bring to my audience today, which is the prevention plan, with particular reference to the Convention for the Protection of Villages. Look, in the wake of prevention, planning is crucial, knowing that there are measures that will give their fruit in the medium and long term, and addressing the structural problems we have analysed sufficiently in the 2018 Commission. But in the short term and on an annual basis, the Pladiga envisages the prevention plan with an investment of EUR 30 million, which allows us to reach 58,000 hectares of surface in the territory of Greece for the control of biomass, 5,000 kilometres of forest runways and other communication routes to carry out maintenance work on the 4,000 water points we have in the territory and build 222 new, or face a prescribed burning program that will allow us to do 2,300 hectares in the campaign 2021-2022. This plan is what makes possible, ladies and gentlemen, that today are those 250 workers in the territory; people of the Seaga public entity, but also people of the Public Service for the Prevention and Extinction of Galician Fires. Let me precisely give you the data of the agreement signed between the Galician Union, the Fegamp and the Seaga public company for the protection of villages, the 50 meters secondary fringes around the villages. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an example of inter-administrative cooperation which also emanates and emanates from the Parliamentary Agreement of the Study Commission of 2018. And after three years since the start of this convention, we can say today that it is beginning to show all its potential in defending our villages in the face of forest fires. In this respect, I also want to give you figures. 242 municipal plans to prevent and defend forest fires have been delivered to so many other municipalities that do not have this planning instrument. Of these, 158 are already definitely approved by the municipalities. This assumes that plans of more than 88% of the municipalities that have acceded to the Convention are drawn up and delivered. How many municipalities do we have in the Convention? 273 municipalities - another of the figures I was talking about at first - and say, almost 90% of the 313 we have in the autonomous community. And speaking of figures, I also give you the investment figure of this agreement since it started: almost 29 million euros. I remind you that the Convention, in addition to the creation of a public service for cleaning secondary fringes for priority parishes - I will refer to these priority parishes - has a number of features for the 273 municipalities, for all those who are affiliated, for example, the Xesbius application, which allows them to manage all the administrative processing of the strips and provides them with a view to knowing what those fringes are. In addition, this year, for all the municipalities, we have expanded from 5 to 10 hectares of surface on which we are going to perform subsidiary execution, if so requested, and we have also expanded the possibility of managing biomass of up to 10 kilometers per municipality and per year on municipal roads. And we reserve 1.5 million euros for mobilization projects. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if it is true that the agreement has as its initial objective to ensure that there are no prohibited tree species around the villages -- i.e. pine, eucalyptus or acacia -- and that biomass is controlled, our work -- no need to work all and the law will have to put a hand on it too -- has to go beyond that. It is necessary to implant in these fringes, around the villages, agricultural activity and also leafy as a sustainable means of defending the villages. Let me give them figures again to put us in position for the magnitude of work, for the titanic effort that calls for the defense of our villages by the number of villages we have in Galicia. With data from the 242 municipalities that are part of the Convention, we speak in the ranks of these 242 municipalities, ladies and gentlemen, of 1,800,000 plots and 135,000 hectares of fringes. If we make a rule of three and we raise it to the 313 municipalities of Galicia, we see that the total magnitude throughout the territory of Galicia would be 2,300,000 plots and 175,000 hectares in the fringes. As you know, the Convention places special emphasis on priority parishes, 157 parishes of 81 municipalities determined by technical criteria. And in these parishes there is a public service for cleaning the fringes, by the public authority Seaga, for a price of EUR 350 per hectare, a price significantly lower than the market price. In addition, Seaga's prevention supervisors are those who check the state of the fringes and assume all the processing of the subsidiary executions in case the owner does not carry out the cleaning of his estates within a period marked by law. I mean, we cooperate with the municipalities in this work, which, according to Law 3/2007, is municipal jurisdiction. Well, in these parishes, in the 157 priorities, ladies and gentlemen, we have the complete data and we can ensure that the Convention is fulfilling its objectives, because since its establishment, the percentage of the surface managed by its owners or by Seaga with the public cleaning service has gone from being just over 50% of the surface to almost 70% of this 2021. I mean, in three years we've increased 20 percentage points the management of the fringes and, therefore, I want to thank the citizens for their efforts in that sense as well. The good move of the work in the prioritized parishes made this year 2021 we decided to extend the audit by the public entity Seaga to the unpriorised parishes, starting with the 81 municipalities mentioned above. I'll give you the data at the end of November. And with data at the end of November, we have completed the verification of the totality of the secondary fringes of 92 municipalities in Galicia. Practically in a third of Galician municipalities we now know the state of their fringes, in order, in their case, to proceed, in such cases as may be necessary, to their cleaning. I'll also give them the total data of these 92 municipalities. Look, the people who work in this field have so far checked the state of 685,000 plots, which account for 4400 hectares. Of the 44,000 hectares, the surface percentage managed — and this is very good data — by their owners is 65%; that is, 29,000 hectares distributed on 432,000 plots. And the unmanaged hectares of the 44,000 are 15,000 and account for 253,000 plots. The owners of these unmanaged parcels are subject to the corresponding notification, cautioning them that, in case they do not clean the two farms, the public administration will carry out such cleaning, with the consequent impact of the cost and the imposition of the corresponding penalty. In case the owner of the plot is not located - and, ladies, this is a complicated issue and we are seeing that there are many plots in which we do not locate the owner - it is being published in the corresponding official newspapers. Also with data on November 30, we have generated in the scope of the Convention a total of 35,326 notifications and 33,129 publications; that is, practically, 68,000 between notifications and publications. Also this year, 2021, as an improvement of the Convention, decided to deploy a pilot into eight municipalities, selected with technical criteria, in which the cleaning and disposal work of prohibited tree species in secondary strips is involved. In this case, these jobs have been taking place since November by employees of the Seaga public enterprise and also by staff of the Galician Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. I repeat my gratitude and willingness and willingness to do these preventive tasks again. These works we are going to extend to four other municipalities to have a pilot before the next summer of twelve selected municipalities, as I say, based on technical criteria and fire occurrence, which have completely cleaned their fringes, completely managed, as I say, before the most risky season of the year 2022. So I spoke, as I told you, in this third section of my appearance, about prevention and the Convention, and I would like to end by referring also to the new comprehensive forest fire fighting law. In this area, taking up what has been said in this Parliament, one of the main conclusions of the 2018 study committee was the need to develop a new law on the prevention and extinction of forest fires that would collect the best of previous legislation. And I would like to remind you that the Galician Fire Prevention and Extinction Act is from 2007, Law 3/2007, but it has also incorporated the forecasts that emanated from the dictates themselves; I repeat, recommendations that come from the agreement of the three fourths of this Parliament. In addition, we had to incorporate - if he told us - the result of the report by the group of experts who were appointed by the political parties representing in Parliament as regards recommendation No. 60 of the dictation. This report was issued in July 2019. And with this starting point, the work of drafting guidelines for the drafting of the draft comprehensive fight law against Galician forest fires has been addressed. For this reason, for the elaboration of the guidelines, it has been configured - it is being configured - a participatory process, coordinated by the University of Vigo, under the direction of two people of recognized prestige in this area, such as Juan Picos and José Antonio Vega, to whom I want to make an express recognition and thank them for their commitment and involvement in a topic of so much transcendence to Galicia as the fight against forest fires. Ladies and gentlemen, in this participatory process more than 200 people have been involved in representing all entities, bodies and collectives that are directly or indirectly related to the Greek forestry activity. I would like to point out that there is an important involvement of personnel in the fire prevention and extinguishing device, as it could not be otherwise. And as a result of this joint work, we have guidelines that serve us as a starting point for the drafting of the draft law; guidelines that will be presented, as cannot be otherwise, to the Forest Council next January 11th, as a step before the beginning of the preliminary draft process, which will enter this Parliament - insurance - before the end of 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make it clear that the fact that you don't have a new law until next year doesn't mean that we'll stay still as far as the fight against fires is concerned; that's what I'm explaining to you in this audience. But of course, the new law has to move forward in matters that have so far been unresolved, and I am going to state some of them which I think are important and which I would like to introduce in the debate of this audience. I repeat that the guidelines are not a question of the Rural Council, but they are the result of a participatory process. They are moving forward in matters such as the division of competences and cooperation mechanisms. The guidelines assess the development we have already made in 2018 of the General Directorate for Forest Planning and Management and the Defence of the Mountain, but they also focus on the important role that the Galician Rural Development Agency has to play as the manager of the Land Recovery Act. With regard to the competition distribution, starting - and thus recognised both in the Committee's opinion and also in the expert report - that the main competence in this matter reaches the Autonomous Community, the role assumed by the other administrations must be clear. The guidelines say that there is a need for improved administrative cooperation, especially in the area of prevention, in particular with regard to local administration, indicating that it is necessary to follow the line of cooperation with the Convention on the Protection of Villages. But it also includes, in local administrations, deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not to be welcomed that only tractors are currently being delivered for prevention to the municipalities of Ourense province, because the rest of the Members refuse to collaborate in the financing of these machinery with the Council of Galicia. The guidelines also define the comprehensive forest fire control system, which covers three areas, from a conceptual point of view: the preparation, prevention and anticipation of the forest fire problem, distinguishing between preventive planning and what is strictly work or prevention tasks; the extinction of forest fires; and the restoration and recovery of land affected by fires. And he also says that the German comprehensive forest fire fighting system must be based on a professionalized structure that must have an integrated territorial basis under the sole command of the forest administration, which I'm sure we all agree on. It must be a fire device with adequate training and preparation at all times. I would like to remind you that in the budgets of the year 2022 we have EUR 500,000 for staff training; an autonomous device, ladies and gentlemen, that needs to be complemented - and this is seen by the report of experts designated by the parliamentary groups of the year 2019 - with new municipal brigades that will have as their primary object monitoring and prevention, together with support for the device in logistics issues and collaboration in the liquidation of stabilized or controlled fires or even in the extinction of low intensity fires; professionalised municipal brigades, with a uniform selection mechanism at the autonomous level and with a minimum recruitment time of six months; and again this proposal also requires the financial involvement of provincial deputies. In the new law we have to clarify the importance of monitoring. The guidelines also support the creation of that unit of fifteen agents exclusively dedicated to research tasks. We are also talking, of course, about extinction, and in this sense, the guidelines point to the need to set up specific specialized equipment for intervention in large fires - you know that they are over 500 hectares - as well as in their subsequent analysis, and on an important issue - in which we are already working, we are going to see results in 2022 - in a more detailed definition of the figure of the Technical Director of Extinction and the need to have a support technical team, analysts. The law must also recognize the fundamental role, as I said before, of these specific brigades dedicated to research. And in addition, experts conclude, in the field of prevention, that any action that takes place in the territory of Galicia must always be permeated by the concept of anticipation in the face of forest fires. The key to anticipation, ladies and gentlemen, is, without a doubt, the management of the territory. The results in the medium and long term will come from that territory management. And in this area, the guidelines propose that two concepts which seem particularly important to me are defined in the law and which I would like to highlight. First of all, the cutting-edge landscapes, looking for a generation of decontinuity in biomass as a preventive mechanism that must have a productive vocation for them to be sustainable over time. And it distinguishes four types of landscape cutoffs: the cut-off polygons of the Land Recovery Act; the joint management forest groupings, which manage the territory with prevention criteria; the biomass management fringe networks, collected in Law 3/2007; and also, finally, the specific areas of the territory which do not have the condition of fringe networks and which necessarily have to be managed to prevent fires or the worsening of their consequences. Here, in the guidelines, we are even asked that there may be direct management by the Administration in that kind of part of the territory. And another concept that needs to be incorporated into the law, according to the guidelines -- and we also agree -- is that of mosaic landscape, so traditional and connected to the Greek territory. The promotion of mosaic landscape, along with the implementation of the Recovery Act, will reduce the risk of major fires in areas with high degree of abandonment of primary activity. It also involves — and of course — the need to maintain primary and secondary biomass management fringes, although we will have to evolve them with these years' experience. I think this is a subject that we should all debate: how can we evolve the operation of these strips, taking into account those figures that I spoke to them before what we understand are the fringes, both in numbers of hectares and plots. Special concern is expressed by the experts who have drawn up these guidelines from the secondary fringes around the villages, where it is necessary - we say so, and we are already moving it forward with the model villages - from the annual detour to the promotion of agricultural activity or the deployment of leafy plants as a sustainable mechanism for the protection of villages from forest fires. The cost of unlocking 180,000 or 230,000 hectares every year, as I told them before, is inescapable. The guidelines also contain a specific section aimed at raising awareness and raising civil society's awareness of the problem of forest fires and incendiary fires. They concern the importance of performing simulations in the territory that improve prevention measures or self-protection actions of the population. This will start in the same year 2022, at the 2022 Pladigo, precisely by seeking self-protection, especially in villages with the greatest risk of fires. I finish this first part of my appearance trusting you to listen to what you have to say, because, as always, my will, in addition to moving -- which is what I've come to do here today -- information on the fire campaign and taking into account the actions of the Government of Greece, is also to listen and, precisely, to seek consensuss that can benefit our citizens. I think, ladies and gentlemen - and I sincerely believe - that the parliamentary process of the new comprehensive forest fire-fighting law can be the ideal framework for all parliamentary groups to come to an agreement, to a community pact, to carry out a joint strategy in the fight against forest fires, against that scourge that afflicts our country every year, against the criminals who burn Galicia. And I ask you to face all of us together, Government, parliamentary groups, experts, members of the service, all who have taken part in the process of drafting the guidelines, the challenges that this struggle entails, and that we have among us all enough time to carry out the mandate given to us by the citizens who voted for us: to agree on the solution of their problems. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u23	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. I want to begin my intervention, as it cannot be otherwise, by congratulating all the workers and workers of the Galician Forest Fire Prevention Service, and also the rest of the administrations, who sometimes work in conditions, both salary and protection, who leave much to be desired, and do everything to fulfill their functions. Today we're not going to talk about that, but we're going to talk about the government's political responsibility in connection with that issue. And I wanted to start this intervention by talking, as I said, about political responsibility and management, pointing out that the Pladiga, the Prevention Plan, was approved at the Board of Trustees in a non-participative manner, in a generalist manner, without detailing budgets or risk maps. We have no basic information on how many acres have been sprayed, how many new water points have been made, and how many kilometres of track have been packaged, despite asking the Director General. We don't even have a study of the needs of the territory. We understand the Socialist Parliamentary Group that you, Mr. PP, act, in preventive matters, without planning based on technical studies, in studies that analyse the real risk. They should have a mapled risk at this point. Article 49 of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Act itself points out that, once the high-risk period of fires has been completed, the Welsh Autonomic Administration will promote the development of a risk map associated with last period's forest fires. I ask you, Counselor, where is that risk map? We hoped that with the profound changes that took place in the responsible general direction, we could count on sensible preventive planning based on the experience gained by technicians and other Fire Prevention Service workers, but that was not the case. And I also use it to tell you that, if you thank your work and made a specific mention to them, you improve the conditions they have for protection as far as the PPEs are concerned and that they improve the rest of the conditions, vehicles, etc., that we can talk about. The People's Party and the President of the Galician Union have been ignoring for decades the need to cut the structural causes of forest fires, extreme measures to prevent fires, to change the Galician mountain, to avoid the depopulation of rural areas - which I will focus on - and to make fundamental changes in agricultural and environmental forest policy. The Greek Government, for example, ignored the measures already proposed in 2019 by twenty collectives within the "Polo monte galego de la future" campaign -- there were enough, twenty -- and they talked about fire prevention all year round and the promotion of a functional and resilient mountain in the face of climate change. The event this year in Ribas de Sil, in Ribeira Sacra, one of the most ethnographic ecosystems in the whole of the autonomous community of Galicia, is one more example of this. In this year's biggest fire, 2021, it can't be that the only argument offered by the Rural Council is intentionality, that if it is true that in this mayor himself coincided, but, they don't make the slightest self-criticism about the failure of preventive and planning measures, as can be seen in this year's Pladiga, which is almost, as always, a cut and catch from previous years. The reality is that the fire was totally out of control and the situation changed because of weather conditions. Disagreement was a palpable reality and the consequences could be much more serious, and you're aware of it. It's urgent that they reconsider that year after year we see that prevention work is not carried out, and that those who do are often executed outside the proper time. Now I was talking about tractors on the farms in December. We don't think heavy machinery right now can do the work you have to do before this time. In the last twenty years in Galicia -- it's true now -- weather conditions have helped, and the Socialist Party is always glad that the burned hectares can be smaller, but in Galicia, in the last decade, in the last decade, they burned 480,642 hectares. I think the People's Party has some responsibility at that time. We have an average of 2,000 deaths a year, according to the Galego Institute of Statistics and an average of acres burned by fire, and the Rural Councillory has not been able to reduce the total burnt-out area by fire for the last ten years, except for what you said, which only spoke of this year for what might be useful to you. We need, Counsellor, to advance the professionalization of this sector with high-risk jobs, in which in many cases conditions are not guaranteed, as it said, suitable wages, material and technical equipment, nor the essential training for the extinction of fires. All of this, shown in recent years, leads to greater disunity and less effectiveness, where danger and risk are constant. With regard to forest resource management plans, which are basic for this purpose, these plans will foster territorial balance, breaking down the current forest situation, as you have done the dictates of what you have said, the dictates of the Galician Parliament, in its recommendation two, to which in this case it seems that it will not listen, because they should be carried out. In that statement, they talk about doing it from 2019 to 2024, and you've already given up on these dates; they give up because in the review of the Forest Plan towards carbon neutrality, in which you asked for consensus, they already change to this date and extend to the period 2026-2030. I mean, it's a date I've already contradicted. I also ask you why you didn't respect what was fixed by the dictates developed following the severe fires in Galicia in 2017, which we all remember. We know, Counselor, how they fulfill their commitments. He was also talking about a recast text about the matter of fires; now he's talking about a new law. I mean, commitments are what you want them to be. Or it is the same with the establishment of the district forest committees, which this parliamentary group has led the commission and voted against, because they are not interested either. It is still to be presented - this is very important - the distribution of means of struggle in our community according to the current situation, because there is a strong distortion or decompensation in the current division of brigades with regard to the proposed model. In Ourense, for example, and despite representing 41% of the fires, 59% of the total area burned in Galicia in the last ten years, in the current distribution the Union now gives it only 30% of existing brigades, when, according to the model proposed by the experts, it should correspond to 43%, and the same thing they do with the fire brigades of the municipalities, because they don't look at this case of fires in that territory. Look, the Galician Union must change forest management, developing a sustainable management of the mountain, with a determined political action that puts on the table a model established in reality, but with the commitment of the whole territory and the whole population, because it cannot be allowed in an area to concentrate all forest production, while the other one, wide, is bound to bring natural values without any kind of economic compensation. He talks about forest fire research units, but I contradicted Galician board president himself when in 2017 he promised there would be 17 officers on forest research teams and 38 others on compliance surveillance teams. This has been reduced to 15 members, but 15 members you deduct from the Fire Prevention Service itself. I mean, it doesn't increase those 15 troops, subtract them and change their functions. So, well, management doesn't think it's to applaud. Analyzing abandoned areas in Lugo and Ourense would have to establish a number of effective measures to promote the native forest. We cannot but reiterate that the main problem is the abandonment of rural areas: fewer people, fewer health services, less education services, less social services for children and older people, the banking services are being dismantled -- from what has already been said in this parliamentary headquarters -- public transport -- and the Government of the People's Party does nothing to prevent these developments. And the consequence of the unproductiveness of these lands is that they are becoming a biomass bomb formed by thousands of hectares of continuous mountain without just the presence of the cutters. But I really like to talk about mosaic plantations now. They must also analyse how to act, in climate change, in those types of fires like the one that happened in the Sacred Ribeira, which we can call the sixth generation. The Greek Government should conduct a thorough study of the development, among others, of an up-to-date fuel map, which not only has to be roses, it is true, because these types of fires have many secondary outbreaks. It is necessary to design a mosaic landscape - I hope you do it - with natural cutters and with multifunctionality. Well, prevention jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u25	You have to finish, Mrs. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u26	...—the end—they must take place at a given time; they must take place all year, but some in a period prior to the high-risk period, such as the municipal brigades, of which I shall then speak. And what about the Ourense Deputy in the distribution of tractors is already the most! because last year, to all the Town Councils of the People's Party, and this year we're going back to it. What's the matter, that the House of Ourense does the dirty work for the Conseilerie du Medio Rural? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It's now the turn of the Galician Nationalist Block. You have the floor to Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. I'm really curious to know how you're going to talk about the day you want to be a triumphalist, because it was really a startling first intervention; surprising to some extent. [[Applause]] I want to begin, first of all, by blessing the whole society. I think we have to be blessed - and I agree with this - collectively, because this year we did not have to lament in this country big forest fires, except one. It was therefore a very atypical campaign of this 2021, as you also said. But a man who was much wiser than me said, "If you're looking for different results, don't always do the same." You gave a speech in what seemed to have done everything in an absolutely different way in this 2021 and therefore these results. What is the reality of this 2021? As already mentioned here, the Pladiga was practically a checkpoint of the Pladiga of the previous year, except in small questions that I will comment on later; the structure of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service was the same as that of previous years; Seaga worked similar to those of previous years; Seaga subcontracts are operating similar to those of other years; the structure of the population in this country, unfortunately, has not changed, but has worsened; and incendiary arrests, of incendiary persons, because they have also continued in the path similar to those of previous years. So what is the element that changed this year, even though you said it was a secondary element? Well, obviously, the climate. And thanks to the climate so specific and so different that we had this summer of 2021, we're talking about data that -- I agree again -- they're really good. I think you have to be a little careful with this kind of data and run away from these triumphal speeches like what you did, because if, when you don't burn, if it's our credit; just like when you burn, it's ours too. So you have to be a little careful about this kind of speech. [[Applause]] We really understand that. I understand that it is human to find the success of a year that was objectively good on the issue of forest fires. And I'm going to give you, in addition, a series of data that you already know, but that a lot of people are listening to, no, and that can be very clarifiers of what is the reality of the execution of the preventive plan against fires this year. You said a couple of questions with which I agree too. The problem of fires is a structural problem, of course, but there are many issues that affect the problem of fires in this country, as it is basically a problem of land management. The problem is that you say it's a land management problem, but then they don't act accordingly. The Rural Middle Council was, on September 30 -- that is, when it ended the third quarter of this year -- one of the least budgetary executions of the entire Government of this country. With three quarters of the year completed, only 36.79% of their budget was able to run, not even 40%. And this data, by itself, could be mistaken. You may not have run more than a third of your total budget in the Council, but in specific prevention programs and at the level of execution it was much higher. Then I'll tear it apart. I'm sure you know, but -- I repeat -- like there'll be people who won't, I'll tear it apart. This is the degree of execution in firefighting, at the end, I repeat, of September; therefore, almost at the end of the high-risk period of firefire. In Programme 551B, which is specifically intended for this, preventive actions and forest infrastructure, the degree of execution on 30 September was 45.1% of the total. And there are other parts that also -- speaking of this issue, of land management -- are very linked to the problem of fires, still in other general directions. And paraphrasing what you said, with regard to the management of forest polygons, the degree of execution was 38.2%, and in 712A, which is population fixation in rural areas, the degree of execution was 23%. So when we talk about model villages, forest polygons, we talk about owners' groupings. What groups of landowners, what forest polygons, what use will be given to the territory if in rural land layouts and therefore services and other necessary issues — anyone here who lives in rural areas knows it — are we at 23% running? This is how important you are to the establishment of population in the rural environment of this country. And what do they say, in the end, this data? Well, in the end, what they say is they spend a lot more on propaganda than on real prevention of a forest fire risk. And, if you did not do so much — in fact, it's just over a month ago — in Commission 7th, your director general made a very meaningful claim — which you have repeated here — that prevention takes place all year round — this is the new dynamic of the People's Party's speech. [[Applause]] We agree, we have to make prevention all year round. The Director General did so by answering, in this case, a question from this political group regarding secondary protection tracks — since you have spoken profusely — which is a very important part of fire prevention. But they prevent it all year round, and even if you've talked about a public service, they've done a lot of it with personal strangers and contracts to private companies; contracts that are running today, subcontracts from Seaga, when most Seaga brigades have stopped working a month or a month and a half ago, just as the workers have put off counseling themselves, who have already gone home for almost a month. So we have a staff from the Union, this six-month discount, which, at best, can only do prevention work for two months so that they can then hire -- I repeat -- private companies to make rice in the autumn, in November, in December -- i.e. in winter, so -- and pass the high-risk period. It's true that there are jobs that can be done in winter, but it's true -- and you'll have to reason about this -- that most prevention jobs need to be done in advance of the high-risk era and they're not being done. Because the data you gave, for example, referred to the secondary tracks, of course, being better than those of previous years, do not correspond at all to a well-made prevention. And there can be no good prevention when there's one of the personnel in the Service of Prevention and Defense against the Lights, whom you have thanked for your work... I have to tell you that the best way to thank the Service of Prevention is to give good working conditions to the workers and the workers of the service. Because it's true that there were three-month brigades that passed to six, but it's also true that those six-month brigades have been hearing that they're going to pass to nine or at least one year. [[Applause]] And I suppose we'll have to wait for the election year to increase the recruitment period for these brigades. [[Applause]] Look, if we noticed in the only great fire that there was this summer, which was that of Ribas de Sil, which affected Ribas de Sil, Quiroga and Poor Brollon, that there were over 1,600 hectares affected, as you know, we found ourselves there brigades doing extinction work that had two components working, or three; completely incomplete brigades that worked because there were lots of means there and because, as the Socialist Party companion said, there came a moment when climate conditions helped; but they were working in absolutely precarious conditions, which are not worthy of the best fire prevention service in Europe, as you say. Also serve this fire to give faith to the bad management of the territory we have. You were talking about the management of the territory, and when we were also talking about this fire in the Rural Environment Commission, your director general was talking about this as an orderly land. And, indeed, it is. It wasn't a land where mountain communities were working, where forestry jobs were done; what is a monoculture, in this pine case, that prevented any kind of cutting into that fire. So what's going on is that the forest management we're developing in this country -- although you've been talking about mosaic now -- is not working. And we can talk again about the secondary tracks, about the large number of hectares that are of municipal responsibility and which are managed, in the best case, through that agreement of what you've been talking about. What we've found is, apart from that low degree of execution, these subcontracts that I'm talking about with contracts that are still being signed this month, when we oblige the owners - in fact, the law of fires is changed through the back door and the Act of accompanying the budgets this year for the last time - to reduce the reporting deadlines and to clear their land at times prior to high risk. So we're telling them that then the Council does these jobs in December and January? You can't be, Counselor! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I mean -- because I see that I have little time -- that you talked about a lot of things; for example, about the new Fire Law that will bring us to Parliament, with a little luck -- although I repeat that now I understand that it will not be very fast, because they have just modified the current Act of Accompanying Budgets -- And he says that a 2017 law — I want to remind him; you know it, but I remember him the same — which is the current fire prevention law, was completely modified by you in 2012 with the included warning of the Economic and Social Council of this country, because they were modifying a law again by the back door. And the staff of the service -- which you say is very grateful -- are calling for better working conditions; they demand that you be able to make real prevention for more months a year, and not just those two I was talking about before. You gave us many numbers and we have very little time to answer it. I'd talk to you about several of the numbers you said. One of them, which is a lot of attention, was the number of millions of euros that says they're going to spend next year on prevention. If I had time to make a breakdown of next year's budgets, we'll see what that prevention money really goes, which, in most cases, is not to land management, but to construction and other issues, but it's money that needs to be justified before the European Union. What has to have the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service in this country is a stable and professional body for the whole year, which works all year round. You have advanced here that six-month-old professional brigades -- called as such -- in the municipalities, but it's a terrible step back, when what had to be is a unique command of the Middle Rural Council where the management of the forest fires of this country is. Here was an attempt at his time to eliminate those types of brigades...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u29	You have to finish, Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u30	...if, I'm finished, Madam President—they served on other issues that were not exactly the prevention of fires, and you say they're going to affect that. I can't talk much more on this first turn of words, but we'll go on afterwards. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u31	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Party, Mr. Armada Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor, welcome back to this House. My first words that go to extend my congratulations to you and also to the Group of the People's Party for a realistic and not fictional assessment; realistic of a series of measures that you've been detailing, a series of quite clear and concrete actions that give rise to numbers, which, quite bluntly, are realistic, and so realistic that sometimes it seems that you don't like the opposition, but, we're very sorry, we're going to keep working. I'm sure we'll do it with the same old impulse and, above all, looking for the best for our territory, which is the definitive elimination of forest fires. And to talk about them, I believe that the first thing we have to talk about before extinction is prevention, and for that it is essential for everyone involved in this problem that fires are the common cause for eradicating them. That's why we like to have you hand over to the state, to the deputies, to the Fegamp, to the municipalities, to the universities, also to the social fabric — especially to the one that is implanted in rural areas — and also to the very involvement of the members of the Council of the Rural Environment and the Council of Galicia. I wish all these bodies had a serious and direct implication, but we fear that, in the case of some Members, it is not. I would also like to highlight actions that have taken and are being carried out within this forest fire prevention plan that we launched this year 2021; a plan on which EUR 30 million was invested, with an action on 58,000 acres of mountains and 5,000 kilometres of track. A planning that incorporated actions on population, on territory, to prevent fires both by means of the Council's own means as well as by those of recruitment or commission; maintenance work of nearly 4,000 water points existing in our community and with the objective of building 222 more; preventive actions were also sought to prevent the fire that occurred and, if it occurred, to limit its spread to the maximum and minimize the damage caused. It should also be noted that there have been preventive work carried out by the staff of the service, which has been added to the work resulting from rural environmental subsidies in the prevention of forest damage caused by fires and natural disasters and disasters in neighboring mountains in common. And in the section of the grants, there were also those aimed at preventing damage to the mountains by fires, as well as actions that are subsidized consisting of selective control of fuel in fires, auxiliary track tracks, natural forest regenerating, as well as dew and penetration, rare and disposal of remains between bands. And now we would also like to highlight a law in which, unfortunately, we didn't have the "yes" of those who now say yes to everything, which is the Galician Nationalist Block. I believe, Counsellor, that he had to bring that law a little later because I believe that Galician Land Recovery Act is one of the key tools to talk about what recovery is and, above all, to try to eliminate as best as possible the abandonment to which our rural society might be subjected. This creates cutting-edge polygons, generates biomass and brake discontinuities and mitigates fire progress by deploying agricultural, livestock or forest activity in these spaces. I would also like to highlight the agreements that are included and that are signed with local entities for the performance of motorcycle vehicles. Also, of course, the agreement you referred to with the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces because — I insist — this is the collaboration of absolutely everyone, with an budget of 7.7 million euros, drawing up these 232 municipal prevention plans. And I would also like to highlight the agreement you make in the defence of villages and the empowerment of citizen participation through the transfer of material to different citizen groups through the municipalities. By entering the issue of extinction, I also want, first of all, to mean that, yes, that we have the best Fire Extinction Service, not from Europe, possibly one of the best in the world; I think, without a doubt, must be the best in the world. And, of course, yes, that of course we are working to improve the working conditions of these workers and that we are always open to dialogue, and it has been demonstrated over these years in measures such as, for example, the increase of the months, of course, which has also been carried out. Logically, the fires have been evolving, now we're talking about fires almost a sixth generation already, and we're talking about different measures; and these evolutions are causing everything to evolve, including, of course, the personnel within the Public Fire Extinction Service, that these men and women, without any doubt, are an example for us to follow. One of the two examples that I would like to highlight within this firefighting policy is, as the advisor said, the Integral Center of Fight Against Light, in Toén. That centre I am sure will be a European reference centre, a centre where training excellence will be its flag, and it will be an eminently practical centre, specialized in forest defence, and fully identified so that in some way all forest fire workers can have the best training and, above all, cope with situations in the best possible way. You were also talking about us not talking to the Fire Protection Service sector. Well, look, right now we would have to talk about the training plan; a training plan that is alive and an initial document that was approved after consulting the trade union organisations. And, curiously, they were accepted about 89% of their claims. A total of 56 of the 63 claims received were estimated in whole or in part; a program based on the formative work done since 2019 and incorporating all new content to be considered until 2024. Thus, the intention is to continue in each exercise the suggestions of the Fire Protection and Defense Service itself and to adjust the plan to the reality of both the Service and the fight against fire, evolving towards a better practical burden in order to get as close as possible to situations presented at work in order to get them to respond. It is a plan that is structured into four programmes, which are: training, training of the Public Fire Extinction Service, training of personnel enrolled in the municipalities that also participate in the extinction of fires and the formation of rural populations. As fires often occur not only in this land, but they touch us beyond our borders, it is also to highlight the Interlumes project. This gives an international character to the fight against forest fires. As you know, border areas are one of the areas most punished by this firecracker. And the result of this Interlumes project is not only the putting into operation of this first cross-border air media base, but it will also allow us to draw up a CAP of the cross-border zone that allows us to obtain maximum protection for people and the environment. The operation of the first common pilot project is an air media service that provides air coverage for the rest of forest fires in cross-border areas, the efficient acquisition of equipment specially adapted to the specific needs of this territory, and the improvement, prevention and intervention of environment recovery, increasing the speed and effectiveness of the media. We would also like to highlight that determined bet that the Council makes for technology, for the implementation of these cameras, for the drones, which, in some ways, are dissuasive elements so that the arsonists do not participate or go forward in their actions. Also the Forest Fire Research Unit. We consider it essential that these professionals participate and are inside what this operation is, because it is clear that they are determining what causality is, and curiously, causality says that the vast majority of the fires are provoked and that they don't come by a plot of PP mayors, as you've come to say at some point. So, I'm sure they're taking care of that service, so I don't think they're going too far with the reading. It's also clear that there's an example of evolution and improvement because if you refer to these municipal brigades and if your specialization improves training it's because in some way they also know the territory very well and they're going to help much more that forest fires can have a minimal impact within the territory. And since they were talking about tractors and the House of Ourenses, because, of course, I wish the rest of the provincial deputies were involved in the co-operation agreements with the Rural Environment Council. Logically, in the House of Ourense, distribution is made according to the requests made. And we would like, for example, to participate in this, and not discreetly, for example, in the area of the rural environment, which belongs to the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Today we can say there was a tractor delivery to a county. Of whom? The Galician Nationalist Block. Where? In the province of Lugo. A tractor, a deputy... I don't think this is a very logical way to work and, above all, to be fair in sharing resources. The Land Recovery Act, the Forest Plan 2021-2040, those future laws that you've been...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u33	You have to finish, Mr. Armada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u34	...announcing, Counsellor, both the Law of Integral Fight against Forest Fires and the Law of Food Quality, which is a transversal law, are instruments that tell us that this government is not silent, that it is not conformist, that, of course, it is involved with our land and that it wants everyone to be involved in, among all, looking for the best solutions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u35	Thank you, Mr. Armada. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, you have the word of the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u36	Thank you, in this case, Madam President. I'm going to start my speech by saying -- you know, many of those who are here, because they came in with me too -- that I went into Parliament in 2016, and the truth is, I've always been part of a parliamentary group that has government responsibilities. So I don't know very well — and I'm sure I'll be long enough to know — what opposition groups are doing. Of course, it's important to be critical, I have no doubt; it should always be constructive criticism from respect and, of course, you all respect the government perfectly in your criticism, but there should also be some more input on such important issues as this. And when I propose a quiet debate and I'm going to keep in that quiet debate, at least, I should listen to some input, not all that's done wrong, after putting a series of data on the table, which is data, Mrs. García Albert, targets, are data that I don't paint, it's data that comes out of what is being done and what is being done. I also get the impression -- I'd also like to tell you -- that sometimes I don't know if you're listening to the interventions that we've seen here, because I, of course, have listened carefully to yours. In fact, I'm going to talk about what you've talked about, but I don't know if they've heard it, because it tells me that we've seen here with triumphalist figures and that we've done... — you said it, it's in the Journal of Sessions, and it's recorded, sure. But look, I'll read it to you, because it was in the first intervention, which I literally said. First I said we won't be assailant as she burns a single acre in Galicia. And the second thing I said was to remind you that the measures being taken are endorsed by the recommendations of a parliamentary dictatorship which has been voted in favour of the three-fourths of this Parliament. By the way, the Block voted against; the Socialist Party voted in favour. So I'm not going to make an interested use of data that are good for the whole of our country. Putting them out of the manifesto is an obligation derived from government action itself and should encourage everyone to follow the path marked in the face of the good results achieved. Tell me what triumphalism I've come to make here. I've come to give the data. Isn't it good to say this year burned 25% of the average of the last ten years? Is it not good to say that it is reducing the number of fires and that there probably the measures that all of us, in a consensual manner, are starting to produce their effects? But what do you want, then? Because sometimes I don't seem to understand what we've been doing here. I have always thought that the Government — and I am part of the Government — had to come here to give its data and move, in the context of a parliamentary debate, proposals to see your views as well, as I did in 2019, that I asked you to meet all the parliamentary groups — Mr Rivas was at that time, I don't know if he will remember — to be able to reach agreements. I tell you now, in the process of the preliminary draft law -- that will not be a proposition, but it will be a preliminary draft law -- and after the debate that has been done with all the people who have something to say in this area and with the guidelines, we may also have a slow debate to put in place or introduce some important improvements. I, for example, put one of them on the table: how are we going to solve the problem of fringes? We're not able to cope with the annual breakdown, neither us, nor the citizens, nor anyone, because we have, as I told you earlier, 135,000 hectares in the fringes in 242 municipalities. But if we add the 313, we have to walk by 175,000. I take advantage to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that most of the councils that are not in agreement can also ask you that, since the agreement works well, if you add up, because we are making efforts, but usually they are political parties that don't have to do with this government. I tell you that it would be good if you joined the convention because it is an example of inter-administrative cooperation that is giving its results. When I was talking about what it seems to me that government interventions are not being heard, at least mine, it's when Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta tells me there's no planning or prevention numbers. Home!, I spoke to you clearly in my intervention - I noted José Antonio - of 58,000 hectares of biomass control that are still running now and of the 5,000 kilometers of forest clues. He was talking about water points, 4,000 points, and 222 new points this year, and in addition to 2,300 hectares of prescribed burns. We probably failed to meet the objective of the burns prescribed precisely by the time, because if they open little windows. But we have every intention of making those prescribed burns between 2021 and 2022, by the way, according to the people in the territory, which is what he's going to tell us where we have to do them. Look, you, and Mrs. García Albert, too, told us it wasn't time for prevention now. Look, here it really makes me hard to understand how this can be kept against the claim that you had that prevention takes place all year round. I say it too, but the voices of the opposition groups also said it. And there's another sentence: the summer fires break out in winter. What are we doing now? Precisely making that prevention, preparing for the summer fires. So if we're doing this, and if you want to understand it's self-criticism, then take it as self-criticism, but at least say it's doing well. But, of course, if prevention, even if it's done in winter, they do -- I don't know how Mrs. García Albert said -- private companies, it's already wrong. Turns out the toxins are now distinguishing whether it's a public official or a person who works in a company to... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They were also transferred to the Socialist Party's voice that the PPE were in bad shape. Well, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, we too can later, if you want, discuss whether cars are too old or whether we have to renew them, even though we are in the framework agreement so that this year 2022 we can start that renewal, but in the EPI we do not. Our people are totally protected from forest fires, with an investment every year of 1.2 million euros. I'd like you to talk to the people here who went to Andalusia — and I thank you very much too for the effort they made. We were told exactly what level we had in the EPI against the rest of the autonomous communities. He also spoke here about the average fires and took some data that are already up to date and that I gave him at the show. I said there's a positive trend since 2017: compared to more than six thousand of the historical average or 2,800 of the last ten years, in the last four years we're at 1,300. So, I think -- I wonder, uh! -- that it's good for everyone to recognize that the number of fires is dropping and that for everyone, of course, I think it's important, and it also shows that the measures we're taking are producing their effect. It also makes me strange... well, it's not strange, but it's always the same question, even with health... If it works well, they say it's for the workers, that the Union has nothing to do with it; but if it works badly, who is a disaster, it's for the Union. Well, I guess that'll be the criticism they have to maintain. The Socialist Party spoke of recommendation #2. You must have found, of the 123, a recommendation that was not met. Tell me more than a hundred of the 123 recommendations that are already included in the Recovery Act and the Forest Plan, and also all the measures and improvements that we have introduced to the service. And he also moved the theme of division by provinces. But, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, you know that the division of provinces and the need for more personnel in Ourense province - which, of course, this year we did precisely give more mobility to the brigades of the various provinces in order to be able to have that closeness and that approach to fires - is a matter that has been discussed - and then I will also refer to the spokesperson of the Block - in the expert committee. I hear, in the expert committee they were experts appointed by parliamentary groups. They agreed because their experts clearly said what to do. Do you know what the experts have said, as well as those in the block, Mrs. García Albert? The six-month, professional city brigades. You're telling me you don't want them. So you'll have to talk to your expert, which I respect a lot, and they did a very intense job that year 2019. They said we had to count on a new six-month, professionally configured municipal brigades. And you know what they said, too? They had to participate in the financing of these brigades - because it took about eight million between six and eight million euros - from three to six months. And do you know he's been doing this counselor since July 2019? I'm asking for meetings with the provincial deputies, except for Ourense, because Ourense's meetings have already met me, so I can get to that agreement. Or is it not important that those administrations which also have jurisdiction at the local level, regulated by law, such as the deputies, collaborate with the Autonomic Administration and with the municipalities in the fight against forest fires? Well, with a small contribution from these Members, we could continue to provide means for the prevention and extinction of the municipalities, and also with these municipal brigades. Of course, those brigades -- which have nothing to do with what you're saying -- they fit, because that's what the experts told us. It's not like I said it, they said it. If the Block is now not in line with the criteria that the designated expert has maintained, well, say it here also at the appearance and see what your model is. We bet on a model where the device has to be public, autonomous, mainly 3,000 people, and then we bet on some professional municipal brigades, with a six-month working time and that they are also co-financed by the autonomous administration and the local administration, in this case by the deputies. And I repeat that's what the expert report tells us as well. He also spoke to me about the 38 Socialist Party's voice of compliments, which they are not. Look, I ask you, how do you think you're doing the check of the secondary fringes around the villages? I told him before we had checked 685,000 plots, 44,000 hectares — as long as we don't do the checking job! — and 45 people, specifically, for that job. So, I think -- I'm also wondering -- let's see, before the Fegamp convention, ladies and gentlemen, how many municipalities in Galicia had plans for municipal prevention and extinction? Less than ten. And how many do they have today? 242, 158 approved and the rest in processing. But is that good or isn't good? Is that helping you make preventive planning or not? How are we gonna be able to clear the fringes if we don't know where the fringes are? So we made a viewer and we made the boundaries delimitation. If anyone considers delimiting, as I said earlier, 135,000 hectares and, within them, all that volume of plots, 1,800,000, it's simple, so... look, of course, it's a very complex job that's taking us time, but it's beginning to give us its fruit, because now there's 68,000 requirements for cleaning. And here's a question I'd also like to talk about because it's not for prevention in winter, says it has to be in spring. And we can agree that it might be better in the months of April and May than now, although I also have to tell you that right now the mopeds are doing is preventing the rain from making it difficult after the access to the forest clues, which are important for the summer. He's working very hard on that track preparation job. And why do we put that change in the law of measures, which tell us it's in the back door and it doesn't make any sense? We put that change, precisely, ladies and gentlemen, so that next year and for those who have not done the cleaning and who are already appropriately warned, we can start the execution subsidiary on April 1st and we don't have to wait on June 1st. I think it's a possibility that will allow us to work much more on that prevention in the fringes. Because I suppose we'll agree with something: I think it's important to do prevention throughout the territory, but if we have to start somewhere, we'll start with the protection of our villages. He also spoke of the Socialist Party's voice that I'm only 15 in the Forest Research Unit. Look, we're here, when we talked about the forest research brigades and if we were talking about three people per district, we have to say that this gets a little bit in contradiction, too, if I may, with the fact that we're going to have to be moving in the territory where people are most needed to do research. So, we're opting for, instead of having research brigades in each district, for having a research service linked, in addition, to the general director and with competence to be throughout the territory. This allows us to move people, and in addition, if they're dedicated exclusively, it allows us to have 6 or 8 people doing research in each place. And I'm going to give you a data from a council in Ourense where in September we started having a recurrence of fires. There were ten people from the Forest Fire Research Unit there, and they didn't miraculously take the incendiary, but, of course, they ended their efforts there to burn our mountain. So I think we should all assume that the creation of the CIF was a good measure. They were asking for the service, and we understand that it will give us many joys in this field. He also mentioned that it was a biomass bomb, and he told me that if there's a fire of 1,700 hectares -- which is a misfortune, one all year round; it's practically what burned this year in Galicia on a wooded surface -- I've been there, I've been checking precisely the situation, and I'm also telling him that the situation of the fringes there is clearly improved. So, among all of them, the Town Councils, and also the Union, we have to figure out in that field. By the way, these are fringes that were also checked by our prevention supervisors to find out how they were. Some of these municipalities, besides, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, will enter the pilot to clean up all the fringes. So we clearly have to work among all of us in what we understand -- and that's what I'm going to mention right now -- which is the most important, which is the management of the territory. It's true that you have to condemn the incendiaries, it's true that you have to have a good device for extinction, but, no doubt, work has to be in the middle and long term through the management of the territory. And when we talk about the management of the territory, this also leads me to say that this is all that was received from the Study Commission of 2018 and also what was accepted in the recommendations of the dictation: Law of Recovery of Galician Land. If that's not exactly about managing the territory, then they'll have to come and explain to us -- not to the Socialist Party gentlemen, who have already been, but to the Block -- what is their idea of managing the territory. I would also like to hear it because we can incorporate some questions. When we talk about the mosaic landscape law, I'd like to hear what their different proposals are about polygons, joint management groups or model villages. And when we speak in the Law of Integral Fight against Forest Fires how we do not only unravel around the fringes, I would also like to listen to their proposals. I have a clear understanding, of course, that we have to move forward in the implementation of the activity, of course, in the implementation of the agricultural activity around the villages. That's the model of our villages, and that's what we all have to do. And if we all agree, let's work on how we improve the model, not saying nothing of what's worth nothing. I gave, as I told you, data, that there were no triumphalist data. And when you tell me that the structure is the same as in previous years, I would ask you to take into account the budgetary effort that we make all the Greeks, because this going from three to six months, the staff is not just a question of the Galician Union, but this is a cost, as I told you, of between six and eight million euros. Tell me, too, that it has no stability, but I'm going to talk about stability. And I ask you, I'm sure you also know: where were these three-month workers during the Bipartite? Of course, in the autonomic public service, no. And how much did they work? Three months. They now work for six months and, in addition, they are integrated into the Galician Fire Prevention and Extinction Service, in the autonomic service, fulfilling one of the commission's mandates, which was that it was a public service. Look, in the service -- with data this month -- we have 3,026 people; 1,415 working twelve months; 627,9 months; and 984,6 months; i.e. 32%, the rest are in nine and twelve months. They know that the nine-months will go through the process of operation. The data I have here is that 98% of that personal gets into operation, so we're going to have those 627s in 12 months as well. What is the percentage of occupation? In employment, 97 per cent of staff, 98 per cent of staff. And now it may be that in your turn you tell me that there is precariousness, that there is very interim. We have 265 places in opposition at this time: 140 firefighters, 55 broadcasters, 20 brigade bosses and 50 motobombists. Really, we're listening. If there was precariousness and we have to improve it, because we're doing the things that we also understand we have to do, but something good will be done if all these measures are being implemented. Tell me, too, that there is no execution of the preventive plan. Well, I just note again that right now -- I asked for this data this morning -- there are 250 workers doing prevention work. Ladies and gentlemen, prevention is done all year, too now. And basically, you know what they're doing? Not by peeling, but by eliminating forbidden tree species in the fringes. I'll give you a date. In one of the pilot municipalities we're going to enter, there are 111 hectares of eucalyptus in the fringes around the villages. After what happened in 2017, we still have situations like that. So we have to get in there, no doubt about it, and we're going in. I would also appreciate it if, if any of you consider it more important to do prevention in another part of the territory than in the fringes around the villages, you tell me on your own and we can talk about what we have to do, according to the opposition, as far as prevention is concerned. I'm going to finish by saying, as I moved you before, that I would like, after what I'm explaining to you, that they voted in favour of the Law on Measures on this amendment on April 1, because there - I repeat again - there are people we believe that you haven't done the cleaning the previous year. Probably -- and I'm telling everyone -- many of those farms are unknown owners, they don't even have to be people who are in the county itself. But if we keep the law as it is, we couldn't get in before June 1st, and in addition, we would probably have to check that the cleaning was not done in the same year, when we know for sure it wasn't done because we've been testing it for three years. So, this change, for which I ask for your support, allows us to enter that cleanup on 1 April and, therefore, make the spring prevention, and let us allow these people who we have hired six months and who also enter those locks to be doing those two months of prevention. So I ask you here to give support to that part of the Law of Measures, as soon as I explained to you why it was the reason for your amendment, regardless of whether in the debate of the Law of Integral Fight against Forest Fires we continue to debate as well as how the clean-up of the fringes can be improved. I finish this turn by also turning to the same thing as I told you before. I come here to give objective data, data that come out, precisely, from what happened this year, and I'm not in any kind of triumphalism, I don't want to assume any merit that I don't fit. All I'm saying is that here, after a fire strike in 2017 -- as well as in 2006 -- there was a reflection in Parliament, there was a study commission, and that study committee took some determinations, and my commitment and that of my team, of course, is to implement the 123 recommendations of the dictation. With this operation, from a parliamentary consensus and from the functioning of a government that respects that parliamentary consensus, I would ask the opposition groups we have had and we have made contributions that will allow us to enrich the debate and to be able, as far as possible, to move towards an objective that I am absolutely sure that we all want, which is to end this forest fire in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u37	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Opening of a special round of clarifications. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, Counselor. You're saying we don't make proposals. Because I was talking about the development of the PORTs, the development of the fuel map, a risk map, the fight against depopulation, a study of the needs of the territory... I was talking about all this, but I wasn't talking about all this here, we talked about all this in the commission that we celebrate every 15 days and in which we present positive initiatives that I'm talking about and to which you, the parliamentary group that supports the Government of Greece, vote against systematically. So it's not true that we don't make proposals. We are also talking today about realities of management, and I also think you should respond to it because you have too many targets that, because of lack of means, are not being achieved, unfinished projects in many areas, prioritized parishes and paralyzed with pending jobs of the year 2020, of discontent in neighbors for being paying annuals to the Seaga Convention but already a year's delay in the execution of the works, or of the Fire Prevention Service, with a shortage of staff to assume the planned workload, which I also agree with what the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block Galego said. We were saying that we agree on annual prevention, but that the optimal months to do preventive work are the time of March, April and May, and in this period many workers find themselves inactive in the service of the Galician Union itself. Look, I'm going to give you an example of a management carried out by your advisor. In the early summer of this year, the Rural Council rented Seaga — if not specifically — to run four tractors to use in the five forestry districts of Ourense. The 12th district, in particular, has no tractor; we don't know why. Apparently there was a doubt in the districts where these tractors were supposed to be driving: the year-round fixtures, the nine-month discontinuous fixtures, or the six-month fixtures. Each of them in their own way went into operation with their motorcycle drivers without common guidelines dictated by the general direction. The 11th district just a few days from receiving the tractor, so that you don't have the driver. In the 13th and 14th districts in early August, it is also paralysed. In the 15th district, it is the only one in which I find that he has worked tirelessly since the day he was handed over to him in early July, and they have done a great job, so I congratulate, obviously, that management. How, Counselor, can preventive work depend on the goodwill of workers and not on efficient management of the Rural Media Council? This is prevention. [[Applause]] With regard to the municipal brigades — as we now speak — and to the prevention of fires, we have already called into question these types of contracts: precariousness for workers, who suffer at the level of training — and know that — wage discrimination. I was talking before the protection of the PPEs and these brigades, because you know they don't have the PPEs available to the Galician Union's Fire Defense and Prevention Service. They don't have them. And they've been with the same economic content since 2016, with an unjustified delay in the departure of the matches, but, above all, they have to hire, legally, between July 1 and 31, at a time of high risk. I mean, how do they prevent if they have to go to the fires, at night they don't rush, if it rains, and if they call them to a fire, they don't open it? I mean, if the order of these brigades were really prevention, the lands deforested should be that before that time. And what happened this year was more serious: that many municipalities couldn't hire brigades because of staff failure that covered the post of chief of squad -- i guess you'll be at all -- even in a council -- I won't say the name, because it doesn't matter -- and in more than one, they had to give up the brigade because the chief of quadrille or the chief of quadrille had to get off for various reasons, as if I'd found another job with better conditions. And then, well, they're here sucking out some municipal brigades that are going to reinforce, and I think it's okay. But if you want to make a public acknowledgement to these brigades, you'll once offer them a stable employment contract for prevention workers for a whole year, which would be easy to bear with the money they're intended to alleviate the damage produced on the mountain, and those, if they're properly employed, would not be most of them necessary. For example, in Jurés, between 2016 and 2020, at a question asked by this honourable Member, they replied in writing that they spent 13 million euros on the damage caused by fires. Do you think this is a reasonable prevention policy? And it's not just about undoing the damage — which we're also — but about making a policy to prevent it from happening in such a dramatic way that we've been suffering, except this year for what happened -- we said -- by weather conditions. As for the distribution of the watchpoints, there was a decrease; there were 73 tapes a few years ago, today there are 44. You know that these kind of fixed monitoring points are important for early detection of a fire, and the reaction time has increased in recent years. The number of troops on the Pladiga regarding the staff, on the paper, are, as you say, like that, but it turns out that the general address does not have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u40	...a policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u42	... yes, yes, I'm done with covering the casualties in a certain way; some are covered and others are not covered. The vacancies are still there, and I'm glad the exams are taking place this year. So I believe that we are about to bring forward proposals to Parliament in a positive way, but I think you are the one who does not hold the hand of the opposition when it dismisses all the initiatives put forward by this parliamentary group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u44	Thank you again, Mr. President. I listened very carefully. It was good that you too had listened to what the opposition said. The work of the opposition is to monitor the work of the Government; that's our work and that's what we've come to do to this Parliament, because it's the work that the Greeks and the Greeks have given us. I repeat to you something I gave him. The Rural Media Council is 45% running its budget on 30 September. You didn't refute that data. How is it possible that in such a serious problem — as you yourself recognize — as is the case with forest fires, we are in a degree of execution that does not reach 50% of the budget you have your advice for working? He says he'll be up next year. If they don't execute him! If the problem is they don't run the budget they have! [[Applause]] And we do our job with the little data that they give us. The PSOE companion was also talking about data that we asked for and that, well, they don't give us systematically. And besides the few that give us are at the Pladiga, which gives sometimes false data -- well, I'm going to say wrong, I'm not going to say false -- There is data on the Plague that does not correspond to reality, for example, what it has to do with the surveillance tapes that are currently available in the service. You talked about the cameras; it says they're going to be in 70% of the territory. You're putting cameras in some places where you know you can't put them -- in private mountains, without agreement with the Council. So, really careful where the cameras are and what you see with those cameras, because you know there's a problem with that. And if they're going to put them -- which is very well and equally useful -- they're managed by them differently. And he said there's less fires, there's less fires. True, there is a new trend in Galicia and the rest of the world because there are now fewer fires, but much more virulent; sixth-generation fires, you know it well. And we had an example this year with the fire that was born in Ribas de Sil and followed by Quiroga and the Poor Brollon. It was a fire — as he said, in addition, his general director— unstoppable; he crossed the Sil River. There's no bigger light than the Sil River, and that fire went through it, because the climate conditions were given so that that fire would have that expansion. And it changed and it stopped that fire because they changed those climates. That was the reality, despite the great work that the service does -- of course, the service does a great job -- both when they can put out a fire and when they don't. And we're never going to blame ourselves -- and I think the sentence you said before -- for the workers and the workers of the service when something doesn't work. You spoke — and although I have little time in my reply, in this I really wanted to stop a little — that one of that commission's mandates had been that the service was public. And in this public-private dichotomy, you mentioned that hiring three more months more brigades has an approximate cost of around 8 million euros. So I understand that for you it's much better to fire those brigades, as they do year after year, when these months are over, to be able to hire private companies, because you're doing that expense, but they hire private companies to do these things. Why? That's your model. That's the model that you decide to put into practice: hiring private companies when there could be workers and public workers doing that function. Then, one question, returning a little to what service is. The BNG model has always been the same: a unique command model. That was the model of BNG; it was before, it's now and I think it's going to be, unless something really terrible happens. When you talk about what some BNG experts were saying on that commission, you know very well that the issue of municipal brigades was a sine qua non condition for that to tell me to go ahead. And you know that there was a need to talk about professionalism in order to reach an agreement and at least all the experts who a priori were against those brigades had stood in their favor. He spoke of over 200 million — if I didn't listen badly, I think I took the data well; 207 I think he said — in prevention for next year; but he spoke of 500,000 euros in training for workers and workers of the service – EUR 500,000!—. I suppose this has to do with the fact that there are many professionals in the service who don't work all year for the board, because it's normal for a public administration to not spend resources, not invest resources, to train people who don't work for them and who can go to another place to work tomorrow. Among other things, because many times these people — especially six-month workers — cannot make a living with this. I repeat that we said the things we were in favor of. We understand that this is a land management problem. What we question is whether, for example, model villages are the solution to that management of the territory. Today -- if I did well -- there are 34 model villages in total in different degrees of processing in Galicia, at least the second one appears on the website of Agader -- the same is also incorrect, like the Pladiga that delivers to us. They're 34 model villages about a total of more than 30,000 population nuclei that have our country. Are model villages really going to solve the problem of forest fires in this country? We really don't think so. [[Applause]] We think that's not the solution to forest fires. [[Applause]] I'm going to finish, I can see that I'm out of time. You talked about next year, which goes a long way to prevention. This year, 30 million to prevention, which was about 20% of the total intended for the extinction of fires; which, by the way, was not spent, fortunately. What we claim is that, beyond propaganda, beyond watching videos in November with three cameras filming the councilman and Mr. Director General seeing how a lot is unfolded in November, indeed, beyond that propaganda, beyond, therefore, a forest plan in which you do not believe, because they do not apply it, and beyond the Land Recovery Act, model villages and agroforestry polygons, that they do a real land management work. And they have some completely saturated districts of work, without staff even to meet all the functions they have today. How are you going to run all these functions that you're asking for?, with unmet squares? We have come to denounce in this Parliament that they have open squares in the districts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u46	...with staff who are indeed precarious — already finished — because they have a temporary design of up to 60% of the staff in the service, as all union forces in this country report. Isn't that a precarious staff? If they believe in services, if they believe in the need to do prevention, they respect first of all the workers and the workers of the service. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Armada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That we don't treat the Public Fire Extinction Service well? My mother! For it will surely be for all investments that have been made year after year, and above all for being permanently in touch with them and improving their conditions! That certainly, perhaps, is to mistreat them, and possibly the fact that we also agree with them their training plans and that we heed absolutely all their demands — not to mention practically all — so that we have an exemplary firefighting service. I'm actually puzzled by certain statements that I get to hear. It is clear that I have to congratulate you again, Counselor, because, of course, when you put a reality here, sometimes reality is too soft, and that reality still means that something is going to be done right. We don't expect you to be applauding us, no, very much less, but of course we'll have to be doing something right so that forest fires are decreasing more and more over the last few years. Obviously, the fires are now of the sixth generation, and that's why the Council is working in that center of Toén, because that's where we have to abound, that's where we have to look for training for the workers, and above all where we have to look for a way to deal with those fires. And we're going to get this autonomous community to be exemplary with actions like this, with actions like the Interlumes project, that European project. Because after all, we believe in collaboration and also, as we believe in collaboration, we understand that everyone, absolutely all bodies and all institutions, must collaborate with the Council of Galicia in this issue of the extinction of fires. Unfortunately, we've found certain Members who don't, and we'd like them to do it, but also unfortunately, that won't result in them, it'll yield in their neighbours, and, well, good account they'll take. Of course, there are certain initiatives that you tell us that we do not approve in committee. Man, we've reached some agreement. Obviously, there are other things that, logically, are either being applied or that we disagree with, but we always come to some agreement. Of course, the non-permanent man is not us, for the non-permanent man I've got on my left. Of course, I also want to tell you that there are studies. Of course, studies are being prepared! Studies are being developed to determine where the media must be deployed, where all the actions necessary to eradicate forest fires must be implemented, and that is what the Council is doing. Of course, we also have to talk about commitments that translate into laws. I'd like to know what a flaw they're putting on the Land Recovery Act to say it's not a valid and effective instrument to eradicate forest fires. What's your problem with model villages? What is your problem with agroforestry polygons? What problem do you have that we want to encourage farming, forestry and agricultural activity? Yes, yes, I'd like to know what the problem is, I'd like to know what your model is, because I haven't heard it yet. I've been asking Mr. Counselor, and right now I haven't heard him... No, no... I, of course, am very attentive to the interventions and can assure you that I didn't listen, and I'd like you to bring it up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll also tell you that, when it came to Galicia's Agricultural Land Recovery Act, many of the suggestions that were made were accepted, and a lot of these suggestions were spoken, it would be! Don't say they didn't accept it. Of course they accepted!, because we knew that this instrument was a key, fundamental instrument, so that we could implant it on this earth. And besides putting an end to the forest fires — which is the goal — the goal was also to increase the value of our land, and you voted that you didn't. [[Murmurs.]] There you are! If you have a better plan, we're willing to listen to them, but for now here we haven't heard anything at all. I would also like to make an incentive that I also liked to hear about propaganda. Look, I was mayor 13 or fourteen years ago, and I ruled the Bipartite. Propaganda? I think you have to give us propaganda lessons. I've never seen so much propaganda in my life! And, of course, in the end, that propaganda, what was it translated into? In that this land was one of the most calcined lands they remember. And you did, for four years -- you take the data, four years! -- for those four years, it burned as much as in twelve years. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President, are these people who ask me to respect me often too? Are you polite? [[Murmurs.]] Sorry... Blaspheming completely... pick up the data, pick up the data, if you want... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u48	Mr. Rivas, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u49	The reality is very soft and, as you well say, what hurts? Yeah, yeah, the data hurts; unfortunately, it hurts. But if we stick exclusively to where and how all these actions are being dealt with, how they will be implementing all the laws that you are now announcing in the future to be able to shorten and above all work together to eliminate this firecracker, because we will agree that we must seek all the necessary contributions so that these laws will go forward with the greatest possible consensus, because we, if we believe in consensus. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u50	Thank you, Mr. Armada. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closing of the show, the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll be allowed to begin my final turn precisely by answering the People's Party spokesman, because I'm totally convinced of what he says. I was feeling it, and I want them to tell me once what model they have, especially the Nationalist Block of Wales. You know, and I'm telling you all, what is the model of the Block? To whatever PP proposes, against it. Is Galicia doing well? [[Applause]] It doesn't matter! Is it the PP? Against! That's what we have to say, and please ask my colleagues. [[Applause]] I beg of you! [[Applause]] They voted against a law and the principal spokesman of the Galician Nationalist Block Party is saying they had Bantegal in 2007. Hey! And in the Land Recovery Act, isn't the role of the Land Bank well strengthened? They voted against a law that recognizes a farm bank in order to compensate for the loss of farms. They voted against a law that has the forest groups of joint management... and I would say, AFXC are almost the same as the uxfor, Mr Rivas, and they voted against it! They voted against a law—attention—given to the German Government, the Autonomous Community of Wales, the research faculty of the unacquainted owners of the unacquainted buildings in the Italian countryside; they prefer it to be in the central government. It's just that I don't understand anything, Bloc lords; they have to explain to me, really -- and picking up the words of the People's Party spokesman -- which is his model. What is it? If we're saying that in model villages we deploy sustainable agricultural activity because we have few hectares! When 50 years ago they began to make the partial concentrations — which they already have 500,000 hectares today — there were few hectares too, and what would you be saying? What isn't done fast enough? Well, help each other see how we can do it. But the question is: is the concept of a model village, which is that around the villages, instead of masonry and slaughtering and instead of having to unravel every year, if it implements sustainable farming activity, is it good or is it bad, gentlemen of the Block? Of course! and, if you like, in another debate we bring you back so that you can have your chance in this Parliament. I wish I could have more time, but these are the rules of the debate, which are so established. I'll try next time to ask you on the first occasion to explicitly tell me: Is the model dumb or bad? The polygons? I've told you the other day, those who are telling me that the deployment of polygons is not bad are the people in the territory who, to fight the abandonment, are seeing that they can be an axile tool. And I'm also asking the people of the Galician Nationalist Block again: if they do well and if the polygons work well, is that good or bad? Is it land management or not? We'll have to start with some; that is, if we're now at 10, I hope -- that we should all be saying that -- that we're 100 or 200 next year! Why do you have to vote against two polygons? Why are they registered in a law that was made by the People's Parliamentary Group? It's just that it really costs me to understand it, and it costs me more to explain it and assume it, especially when I often hear their voices talking about the state pact, the need for agreements and understandings. Yeah, I mean, where are those agreements and those understandings? I have a hand and I say again: I think there must be a quiet debate, I think that the measures taken, which come from a parliamentary consensus, are going in the right direction. We have to make criticism — as Mrs. García Albert said well — to the government, it would only be missing!, but I think we must now move forward in drafting the law so that we can have points of agreement and also... and I will tell you clearly: I firmly believe in the ability that all of you have to be able to make contributions, so I am interested in having this debate, because there are certain things that we do not know exactly how we will be able to solve, by much intelligence that we put on it, and we all require. Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, I was talking about the fuel map. Well, I suppose you also know -- because I see that you, like the spokesperson on the block, are attentive to the execution -- the contracts that are being tendered, and you know that we've bid the contract for the continuous forest inventory. They also know that this was a complicated year, from the point of view of cloudiness, and that you couldn't photograph the whole thing. We've got a lot of photography, but within the continuous forest inventory we're already working so that with the satellite photos we can establish the Fuel Map. It's a joint work of the General Directorate for Forest Planning and Management and the General Directorate for Mountain Defence. It's about taking advantage of what we need, for a continuous forest inventory, which is to know how our forest masses are, and also to be able to make this fuel map, which seems very important to us and which is also asking service people as a mechanism to be able to predict the virulence of fires, which not only depend on the climatic conditions but clearly on the biomass below. By the way, when we talk about virulence, also the voicer of the Block, as before did not just tell you that Galicia burned little this year -- but also in 2018, 2019 and 2020: 2,000 hectares in 2018; 6,000 hectares in 2019; and 14,000, and it was a complicated week in September -- it talks about last year; and this year, 4,000 hectares. He didn't get to tell her that it was the climate conditions that kept him from burning any more in Galicia, but he says it's a global trend to reduce fires. Everything the People's Party does here and the Government has nothing to do with what could be a good result in the fires. Well, I limit myself to numbers: 19 out of 254 this year went from 25 hectares, 1.99 percent, and we only had 135 fires. That is, 954, only 135 turned into more than acres of fire. And that's what it's due to, to the good operation of the device? And now we've reached the disuntive: it's because the men and women who work on the device work very well, and the board has nothing to do with the organization of work. I really think that dichotomy is very difficult to defend. You don't think it's enough of the €500,000 training. I also gather here the words of the spokesperson of the People's Party: that this is being agreed upon with the service. Are you guys talking to the service, whether you like it or not? And what part of the service, with the IGC? What part of the service? Talk to all the service! Because I speak with all the service, and I know perfectly well that you are recognizing the work that is being done as far as training is concerned. And I'm telling you more, we have to keep focusing on it, but for that we put on the table a centre of integral fight against the fires that has as its fundamental objective the training of the staff. They will also come to us as a Pharaohic project or as a matter of pure gallery. What I'm telling you is that right now we're building the first course of practice there for the motorcycles and for the totterres, and that our people, of course, are delighted with that formation. I also spoke to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta of a question for which I also ask your attention — I know they are paying attention, but I ask them a little attention. He was talking about tractors in the districts of Ourense, which worked badly. Then someone put those tractors on, it was a decision. We understood that it was necessary to have that machine and make it available to our staff 41 tractors. And there are tractors that can't work with staff, because, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, if you ask the people in the service, you'll tell them that, in high-risk season of fires and while we don't get to some sort of union agreement, it's difficult for people to use the tractors, and they probably have to be very ready for extinction. But what was done was to have tractors with drivers and tractors without drivers to be able to do prevention; and, of course, you gave them a voluntary character to all those who wanted to work. Now, I also tell you that if in the law and in the debate of the comprehensive fire fighting law we have to reach some kind of parliamentary agreement in order to be able to impose, in some way, that work, because I am totally in favour, and we can talk about it among all. Because if it seems to me, if I think the Fire Prevention and Extinction Service has to do prevention, without any doubt, and it has to do it all year round. When he talks about six months and they could make more prevention, because, indeed, I hope that even if this debate does not come out more, they will vote in favour of the amendment we put into the Law on Measures. I repeat, for general understanding of all: until now we cannot enter any farm before June 1st, by law. Now what we're saying is, if we've already checked the previous year that the farm hasn't been cleared, and in most cases they're going to be parcels of strangers, that we can enter from April 1 with people from the service -- that's six months -- to be able to do prevention. So I understand that we will all agree to voting on that in the Law of Measures; that is, I hope to see what the result of the vote is when it comes to debate. He's also talking about a lack of personnel, lack of chiefs of quadrilles for the formation of municipal brigades. Sure, you know what that has to do with it? The prevention work that is being done in recent years, in a very intense way in Galicia, which is straining the jobs of this nature. He's working people in Seaga, he's working people, of course, in companies that are doing prevention jobs and he's working people on his own device, which used to have different possibilities of work, because they were only three months old. Here is a debate that we have to open and that does not have to do with the Conseilería do Medio Rural, but it has to do with public service -- and it has to do with public service even above the Council of Galicia -- which is the impediment that six-month workers have, that has made them discontinuous, so they can have work in the next six months. But I am also willing to open this debate in the Defence and Comprehensive Fight against Forest Fires Act, because to me, of course — and I have said it — I would like those people to be able, in the other six months, to be doing prevention work as well. So it's a question where I think we should move forward, and we should probably also say that at that time they're not doing the job because they might also be developing agricultural activity, which also manages the territory and which also contributes to avoiding the logging of forest fires. As for what I also said about the municipal brigades — which, in fact, was a question that was debated — I have to tell you that you have agreed, because you voted in your speech. I clearly say that we are waiting for power to even talk to the three Members we're not talking to in order to reach an understanding. These municipal brigades have to work six months, they have to have a uniform selection criterion. And as for the chiefs of the brigade, you'll probably have to see how you determine the work of those chiefs of brigade, those municipal brigades, who have to be fully coordinated with the Monte Defense Directorate General. And there's a legal obligation, ladies and gentlemen, in the law on the basis of the local regime, which says that deputies have to contribute financially, as far as the prevention and extinction of fires is concerned, in municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. So let's leave us with stories and come to an agreement, it's a small issue in the budgeting of Members, and that allows us, on the one hand, to have these municipal brigades and, secondly, and it's very important, to provide municipal means for the prevention and extinction of fires, the municipalities, the municipalities of Galicia. I really criticize the fact that we can deliver 9 tractors, which is 10% of the municipalities -- and I have to tell you that there are municipalities of all the political colors in Ourense using the tractors of the Rural Council -- let's go, without any doubt. From there we will have to work with the rest of the Members to reach agreements. I, of course, tell you, send them a lot of letters, and I'm waiting for you to have a meeting. I'm going to insist again, and I would ask you to support us because, after all, the only thing we're looking for among everyone, as I say, is to fight forest fires and, above all, equip the municipalities with means. Mrs. García Albert, I've been saying "Garcia" all day. [[Mrs. González Albert: González.]] I apologize for all the times I said Garcia and passed over to González, because I was confused. As for the execution, I know that you were probably very young when you were in 2006 the Bipartite, and I don't know if you had government responsibilities, but in any case, you can transfer those who have government responsibilities that normally run in the Public Service to be very tied to the last period of the year. And in this case, most... well, I'm giving you the data, and besides, as you told me you hadn't given them to today, I'm going to give it to you: the degree of execution is at 81.7%. Look, he doubled what you said. I'm very worried about cameras in private mountains, you know. Let's see, the cameras are installed according to an agreement with Retegal. So, it's Retegal — which is a public entity that handles this — the responsible one, and what I think is that they're implementing. Moreover, I forgot to tell you that, in the guidelines, one of the issues that will be imposed on the law is access to the managers' chambers of large infrastructure, such as wind farms and concessionaires of highways or railway routes, so that they can also be used in the prevention and extinction of fires. Look, there's a clear reality, which is that digitization and technology are very helpful to prevention and, above all, to the extinction of fires. There is one before and one after the extinction and the making of important decisions in that extinction, with the deployment of the cameras, which enables us, from the command center, to be able to make those decisions, especially as far as the use of the air media is concerned. Here's what's coming. We can't stop progress here, no doubt about it. And those cameras have to reach the entire territory. And I'll be done by now. Of course, I'd like to move the many things we can agree on more intensively. I would ask you, within political criticism, to be able to, in those things that you see to be right, try to get them out of the way, because, in any case, at some point - that I want them to take many years - they can rule, and then they will have to deal with these responsibilities as well. I'm going to launch, of course, a consideration, and it's that I would in no case play -- or I would touch very little -- the Law of Recovery of Galician Land, because they know perfectly well that it's a law that could be signed by everyone and each of the members of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. And at the time of the closure, I'm going to talk about the cross-sectional issue, when I talk about the fires in Galicia, which is anticipation or prevention. I'd like this to sound and resound like an echo over the next few months, of course during the time that I'm a counselor; an echo, as I say, sound, but also visual, because 207 million is 33% of the budget of the Council, and they've already abandoned that mantra of extinction, because it's 90 million, which is 14% of the budget of the Council, of which, ladies and gentlemen, nearly 60 million are chapter I, staff costs. [[Mr. Rural Middle East Counsellor, González Vázquez, shows some graphics.]] And if we devote 33% of the budget of the Council to prevention is because this is a strategic and totally priority line in our community: prevention, prevention and more prevention. Planning prevention, recovery prevention and land management prevention. And we are destined for extinction much less than for prevention, first, because we are aware that to be truly effective prevention must be based on structural solutions, and secondly, because it is also about the investment linked to extinction, because, making more prevention, there will be less chance of extinction. And also because planning is, as you well know, our usual maxim, and it would not fail to be one of the most important policies for the Greeks and the Greeks, as well as for their safety, in the face of the logging of forest fires, and this would not be without planning. In this sense, another of the strategic lines that will be closely linked to prevention, ladies and gentlemen, is recovery. I said it before, and I repeat it now, gentlemen: there is no recovery. The greatest enemy in the Italian countryside is abandonment. And, in this respect, the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia, as a maximum exponent for the Conseilerie do Medio Rural, for the Union of Galicia, which possesses the recovery of the land of agriculture in our community, fulfils a total of 43 of the 123 recommendations of the parliamentary dictatorship derived from the commission of study. It is in this Parliament where the dictatorship was born, it is in this Parliament where we have this debate today and it is in this Parliament where the understanding between parties must be born on such an important issue as the fight against forest fires. Let's hope to be at the level of what the Greeks and the Greeks demand. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u52	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We continue with point 3 of the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García, on the policy of the Government of Greece in respect of the beef sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u53	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Seco has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the productive sectors of Galicia are having a very hard time. The dairy sector is at war in the streets, with producers fighting for a fair price for their milk. But if this situation is worrying, with companies that do not guarantee contracts with prices that cover their production costs, we must not forget a sector that is going through much worse than milk and with less capacity for mobilization and display, which is the meat sector. Producers who are launching an emergency message in the face of the possibility of the disappearance of many small farms that are sweeping our rural territory; a message that, unfortunately, is not silent in the German Government. In the last seventeen years, the price that livestock perceive for the meat they produce has increased by only 12% and, on the other hand, in that period, the CPI has experienced an increase of 33% and the production costs of the farms have risen by no more than 38%. It is only necessary to make figures to see that this situation is jeopardizing the economic viability of farms that are essential for Galicia, because, in addition to producing meat of high quality under strict parameters of animal welfare and also environmental sustainability, they play an indispensable role from the point of view of land management, the fight against the abandonment of rural areas and the fight against forest fires, because, gentlemen of the People's Party, as the councillor said, there is no better measure against forest fires than the management of our territory and the placing in value of our land. Mrs. Candia — who I don't know if she's going to intervene — where the earth produces and has economic value, the fire doesn't come in. The rise of thought, fertilizer and energy makes it possible to produce one kilogram of meat today between 50 cents and one euro more expensive than before the arrival of the coronavirus, depending on the conditions of each holding. And, on the other hand, the discharges in the liquidations in the slaughterhouses are placed in a negative differential, about 40 cents with respect to the pre-pandemic situation; a totally unbearable and unsustainable context for traditional Greek livestock that makes many producers might be planning to abandon this activity. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, while the sector is sending a SOS, the People's Government postpones the need to take action, waiting for a supposed magical effect on a plan of the meat sector that has never just reached this House. The future is at stake nothing more and nothing less than 11,000 traditional glove stores throughout Galicia, small farms located in more demographically sensitive areas, where there are major problems of aging and also of depopulation. And without people and activity, you tell me how we're going to value our rurals. Each of these farms is now entering EUR 200 less than before the pandemic for each calf it sells, and from the Conseilaria do Medio Rural they must put in place measures that guarantee proper prices for its products and mechanisms for its control. According to a study by Agricultural Unions, producing a kilogram of meat in Galicia costs around €5.50/kilo/channel, while liquidations in no case exceed €4.80/kilo. The sector needs to set up a public price observatory in order to be able to have clear references and to promote contracts approved at a specified price and always higher than these costs. Because if the pandemic hit a sector that was already starting with serious previous problems, the Greek Government's passivity can end with the closure of many farms by not putting all the resources needed to save a strategic sector for all of Galicia. The producers valued an income drop above EUR 18 million before the summer from the beginning of the pandemic; an amount that today is higher, and on the other hand, the Government of Greece used only EUR 7 million from European funds to compensate for these losses, when it could have allocated up to 24 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have to tear down your clothes by observing and not putting any solutions to the industrial problems that arise in the Lugo Navy with companies that generate a good number of jobs, you seem to care not about the serious problems they have in this other part of Lugo, because, when we talk about the meat sector, we are talking about about some 20,000 farms, of which 11.00 are professionals, they generate around twenty thousand incomes and much of them are in this light territory; a sector that generates nothing more and nothing less than 20,000 professional jobs between producers, slaughterhouses, despective rooms and veterinarians, and some levels of employment that are not as media visible as they are from the industry, but their loss, in addition to the terrible economic effect that will generate, will also bring a terrible social, environmental and territorial effect in that depends on meat holdings as an essential basis against abandonment, while good part of these holdings in the territory of the mountain of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we came from an almost structural crisis in this sector, and you know that the long crisis of the coronavirus caused a significant fall in meat consumption, resulting in this from multiple issues, such as the closure of the restoration channel, the failure, of course, of tourists, and even many changes in consumption habits. But past this crisis, prices remain unmet for production costs, and the Galician Union must watch and put on instruments to make effective the enforcement of a food chain law that has already been approved to ensure the survival of non-recovery gainers, having to take off their savings in order to survive or turn to bank loans that in many cases cannot bear. They approve our amendments to the budgets of 2022 and put in place an exceptional aid line that meets the 7 million that have been used by European funds and that have been clearly insufficient for a sector that has already lost more than eighteen million; although they could use up to 24 million of these funds and not for other sectors such as wine, which could have been perfectly covered with Igape funds. Now we know that these aids are clearly insufficient. They have in their hands to supplement this amount with their own funds in an exceptional way and to make a specific plan for the size of beef cattle holdings within the framework of the new programming period of rural development aid from 2023 to 2027. It is a sector that needs a Galician Junta that clearly bets by an extensive quality gang, by encouraging public research to increase the quality of our product and also the food of our livestock, by modernizing the packaging and discarding channels of products towards the consumer, so it is an active part of the negotiations that guarantee the presence of Greek meat in the food chains of our territory and by betting on the expansion to the external market with high quality products, as we have, under the seals that guarantee certification in multiple materials. They must put in place, without delay, a wide range of digital livestock as a tool that gives transparency to the sale of livestock; a measure that the Socialists proposed in the Commission of this Parliament for the reactivation with the Fund and which was accepted by the Government and the People's Party, a measure to modernise the buying and selling structures that prevents all in the hands of intermediaries who are left with 30% of the benefit for calves only by transporting these animals. New technologies can be a suitable tool to launch electronic auctions that avoid this excessive benefit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I ask them to abandon demagogy and be part of the solution to the abandonment that the gainers have felt for many years because of the problems they have to deal with wild fauna. They coordinate with the Ministry the development of the new strategy for the conservation and management of the wolf in Spain, ensuring fair payment to the owners of the farms affected by the damage of the wolf to the cattle, for the damage caused by these animals precisely, and put in place a new plan for the management of the wolf in Galicia fruit of the consensus between the wolf-defence associations themselves, representatives of the cattle organizations and also of the veterinary sector, updating with this new plan the population censuses and developing a new map for the wolf presence in Galicia, which have been paralysed. And also, in the call for aid for the prevention and compensation of damage to the so-called wildlife, the budget share has a proper allocation according to a fair valuation and take into account the price of the market and the loss of profits and the agile processing and the perception of aid. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party -- I was telling the councillor the other day -- they can't follow behind so many people in Galicia. We've been presenting initiatives that support this sector for months, and you keep looking to the other side and only offer the answer to the alleged development of a strategic plan, which, as always, will be magical and will solve all the problems, but the sector can no longer wait and needs measures already adopted by this People's Group on this motion and then raised, of course, to that German Government that seems to be behind this citizenship. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u55	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Galicia contributed 11% of the beef production in the Spanish state in 2018, but in March 2020 the state of alarm also disrupted the life and health, economic and social conditions of the Galicians and the whole of the world's citizenship, and so in Galicia, with the stoppage of tourism and all of the host activity, meat consumption was also halted, mainly in the hospitality and restoration market, and caused a sharp drop in prices paid to producers and producers, which contrasts with the significant increase in the average price of the shopping basket. The sector had already dragged structural problems of old age and with the pandemic the fall in sales has made calves, years and goats of optimal age to continue on the farms longer than normal, causing extraordinary expenses not provided for in their own maintenance and handling, without these expenses being aimed at offset by their growth. So market uncertainty has become a weapon for the speculation of original prices by the distribution within the agri-food chain. The beef sector in our country has around 20,000 farms and has a strong presence and capital importance in less-favoured and mountain areas as an economic activity, almost unique and essential element for the vertebration, management and management of the territory. We look at the fires that repeat year after year, systematically in the abandoned districts of Ourense, and we reason on this fact and the depopulation and we value in its fair measure the permanence and increase of this activity in the so-called disadvantaged areas of the Mountain. If slaughterhouses don't sacrifice bait, they don't receive the corresponding income, which leads to an accumulation of animals in farms, and cannot be sold in the corresponding time. This situation affects both meat and milk farms due to the drop in prices of the developing cows and recreational jets, which is causing considerable losses which increase the difficulties of many yellow gloves; in the case of cows to reveal the fall around 50%. This meat production is the main economic activity, as I said, of many regions of the country, such as the Ancares, The Fonsgrada, Sarria, Terra Chá, the Courel, the Central Macizo of Ourense. Some can almost say that it is the only one, and, in case of disappearance, it would increase the problem of abandonment and depopulation of our rural, at such a critical moment as we are going through, where the importance of food production and supply for society and the recovery of our food sovereignty both in the field of production and consumption is being manifested. It's supposed that industry and distribution once again took advantage of the circumstances for their own benefit. It is time for the Administration to review prices upwards and assume the task of objectively evaluating production costs, setting minimum prices and thus ensuring compliance with the law. The coronovirus was used by the industries and the distribution to impose a generalized drop in prices on the producer, which then became the chronicle of the most restrictive pandemic. Nothing brought back the passage through Congress and the Senate the amendment, the last amendment to the Food Chain Law. In its most necessary aspect for the producer, nothing has been clarified or modified, we have no clear tool. We need political courage and common sense to protect these threatened sectors. Because after the negative effects of the confinement and the restrictions of the pandemic, the time has come for the unmeasured substations of the prices of electricity, fuels, concentrates and fertilizers. The market logic should bring a compensatory rise at the final price of the product for these production costs, but that's not the case; yet, the producer prices have fallen. Nothing moves from the Government of Galicia to get the producer a fair price according to the prices of the production costs already mentioned. No form of arbitration, no mechanism determining the calculation to set a reference price in order to comply with the mandate of the Food Chain Act in Article 9(1)(c) of Article 12.3, destruction of the value of the string. We need a Rural Media Council that actively participates in its elaboration, transposition and compliance so that it can be as effective as possible and enables us to strengthen the negotiating position of all stages of the chain, so as to ensure the effective competition of all of them and to provide effective tools so that it can be negotiated on an equal basis. Ladies and gentlemen, the partisan opportunisms with attacks and leaving responsibilities on the part of the Government of Greece that at nothing help this beef sector, as well as nothing solves the formulation of redundant producers' rights to collect payments over production costs if the Food Chain Act does not set out mechanisms to determine the calculation of these costs. The Rural Media Council should be committed as a competent body and administration to ensure compliance with the obligation of the price agreed between producers and the first buyer, which must at least cover production costs, for which a technical assessment commission should be set up, in order to update these values for each productive orientation in the Greek field. Three are the markets where the posses mark the prices of the cow: Silleda, Amio and Castro de Ribeiras do Lea. It was enough to have political will and to take a step in favour of the sector, a Carne Observatory or another about how, calculation of production costs in the very diverse modes of handling, children, ages and races, and these costs would be the exit marks in the pockets, and we would have taken a step forward. We'd have to sort out the sector. We'll talk about her the other day. In point (b) of the agreement proposed in this motion by the Socialist Group, which is already ahead of time that we will support, it was necessary to add at the end of paragraph 1 "guarantoring a fair payment to the owners of the holdings affected by the damage caused by the wolf to the cattle that contemplates the loss of profits, the fair valuations, the counting of damages, even if there are no remains, and payments in time", i.e. intention to comply with what needs to be met; go!, everything that is not doing the advice of the Government of Unity. They're asking for another wolf management plan for Galicia, Mr. Seco. The problem is not to elaborate it, the problem is to comply and do it, nothing more. There will be no peaceful coexistence between gangs and wolves until society realizes that the existence of the wolf causes damage to the cattle and pays in time and form. Meat and, to a lesser extent, milk will continue to be at war with this species. Of course this war and its manipulation is serving as a political wear on the pim, pam, filthy pom that keeps the PP with the central government. They don't care about a chicken. I'm sure PP knows well who he's defending, and we know very well who he's pushing. So in this positioning intervention, we should sing the chorus of "only once." Well, for once, they do their duty to rule and govern for most citizens and not for a few. Nothing else. We're going to give support, as I said, to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u57	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services proceeds to disinfect the stage.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. I hear and I don't understand how rural you're coming, what you're watching. I understand it's a purely electoralist description, a description by which you believe you're far from the countryside and you don't listen, and you play with your ears, and that's what I always say in Commission 7th and I say again, Mr. Seco, you play with your ears. I want you to explain to me what this change is due to. Now you don't seem to believe in the countryside for systematically defending the central government. Defending the central government is electoral, it's electoralist. You belong to the party, but you don't listen to the countryside. And if this majority group has the result it has, it represents the Greek people. Or do the winners vote for a People's Party that is presented to some elections because we're adgrinating them? No, they vote in freedom, and free means that this group is the absolute majority in this parliament. Hey, I know it hurts, but that's the way it is. Today most meat farms, which you describe today, because I mean they're working. It's true they came from little professionalism. Many meatgrowers left dairy production and incorporated beef cows into their holdings, all of them cross-breed, many of them. I mean, with this, they didn't have pure-bred mothers. At this point, the sector has been professionalized. At this point, the glovers choose that means of life, and they are introducing purebred breeds, in several models: semi-extensive, extensive and, to a lesser degree, intensive. That's what happens in the meat sector. Obviously, you reflect a parallel reality. At the moment, the sector, which is in line with the administration, that is, with the agricultural extensions, with the technical advice of many cooperatives, of many associations, of different entities, all work to improve the meat sector in Galicia, and surely we agree with the importance of the meat sector in Galicia, in particular the beef cattle, for the territorial balance of our Community. It represents about 33% of the value of final agricultural production; and in the case of beef cattle, Galicia stands as the third region, i.e. the third autonomous community of the state, with more than 14% of national production. Important data, Mr. Seco. We also refer to quality meat — you mentioned quality meat — the meat certified by Tenreira Galega. Well, the Galician beef beef, Galician beef, has a bill of over 100 million euros. That means that the consumer chooses the meat of blond Galician, the meat certified by Terreira Galaga; not only of blond Galician, but of different races that are born, grow and feed in Galicia. Because that billing is the first IXP from all over the Spanish territory. Can you defend the meat sector? Of course I do. And I wonder, where are you, the government of the bipartisan? Are they in the statements of the Minister of Consumption? You don't know, Mr. Garzón, because it seems to be anti-consumption, because it systematically criticizes meat, meat production, it feeds on meat, too. So I wonder, Mr. Seco, do you support those statements? I don't understand it in a person who worked eight years of his life as a professional in the dairy sector and in the meat sector. I defend it every day and this majority group defends the meat sector. Clearly, we will continue to support the sector. And the law of strategy, that is, the meat strategy we just approved, the milk strategy, what do you defend? Well, it's fifty agents who want to develop and dynamize the meat sector in Galicia. A plan of work with gloves, that is, listening to representatives, not only listening to representatives but listening to the sector itself. This strategy also wants to have the opinion of industries, distribution chains, associations and organizations that are working in defense of the sector. A process from which concrete measures will follow, also very definite measures to defend a sector, to defend the future of meat. Clearly, I wonder, where is the two-party government? The Food Chain Act in which the sector benefits? Hey, I was listening to some statements from the minister today in a media release of the meeting he had last week, and he didn't put any action into the sector, it's that he didn't carry out any! Can you tell me, Mr. Seco, where the food chain law benefits the sector? Because I say you're going to pass a law clearly with a vocation. And that's going to translate into giving value to the price of meat? You were saying a price, but you weren't doing it right. 4.80 is paying for uncertified meat. The meat certified by Tenreira Galega, that is, supreme meat, exceeds 4,80 € at the price of the meat, is rounding the 5 €. But, of course, we must know that. Well, you say figures here that draw attention to me. But the meat strategy, what do you want? What brings you? So to consolidate the sector, the generational rebound — that is, the generational relief, fundamental also in the livestock sector, the meat sector — to have profitable holdings — that is fundamental —, sustainable holdings, to improve the level of transformation of the meat industry and to generate added value throughout the chain. The meat strategy also wants to continue to bet on training to continue to deepen professionalization. Today the Administration has centres that are providing training. And I mean clearly that in the genetic improvement we must continue to sink in the fleshline and also in the maternal line of the Welsh blonde or of the different autochthonous races. Clearly, we should do that. Also in the economic management of farms, training also in the design of farms, also in animal welfare. Europe walks that line. And we are giving courses for animal welfare, also in crops, both in the labor of the earth and also in pastoral training. Sure, and here I wonder, where's the BNG? Because we approved the Land Recovery Act and BNG voted against. How can you blow and sorp at the same time? To ask for more land base for farms and vote not for a law that believes it will bring more land to those farms? Look, the Carnage Strategy Act also wants to continue to deepen in research and innovation. This majority government, this government and this party will continue to bet on training to promote professionalization. The Land Recovery Act, I mean with great clarity, is the territorial basis of what it brings to the landowner. For what? In order to depend less on food other than farms. I am talking about cereals — this is an increase in the price of cereals — of the inputs, of the raw materials. If we bring land to livestock, we're bringing what? Forrage, which depends on exploitation, to feed its cows, its calves. We're also going to continue to bet on believing grants to the winners. I'm talking here about the necessary help to the sector. But it's just that every year we bet on these subsidies, on the plan for improvement, on plans for incorporation, on aid for genetic improvement. And we're going back to the CAP, that is, 127 million euros ahead of tomorrow's day for all the winners, 127 million euros; basic payment, green payment, payment to milkgrowers, also paying 3.5 million to meatgrowers and small farmers and young farmers, with 2.2 million euros. This is what the meat industry is today, professional, and it continues to wager for training to improve its holdings. And we're also going to continue to cooperate economically. Mr. Rivas Cruz, during the time of the hideous crisis — Mr. Seco said a missing figure — it was not 7 million euros that brought the Rural Middle Council to the livestock, it was 9 million euros. We also bought a lot of matter — and you know — with Mercaproximity, Super Feirón, which we bought for the livestock. Of course, you know that, but you come here and ignore it, and so do you. So we were and we're always with the livestock sector. And when you talk to me about the plan of the boar, the plan of the wolf, it's one thing for me to say: how can you come here to this gallery and tell and claim to this government a plan to manage the wolf? That's already happening in Galicia. The aid is more than 3 million euros. Where is your government? No help, and what you want is -- I don't know -- to pass a law that totally and absolutely discriminates against the captive, where it directly attacks the captive in extended and semi-extended as well. Of course, and you come to demand a government, what, what are you still doing and collaborating with the sector? Well, no. Look, we're going to follow the path outlined by the Greeks, not what we trace, but what the Greeks plot: collaborate, professionalize and continue permanently supporting a sector in general (milk, cattle, ultimately, but also meat). I mean, we're gonna keep betting on the countryside, which has a lot of future. Do you need more professionalization? I'm sure we will, but we'll always be by their side. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u59	Thank you, Mr. Vega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author of the motion group, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Rather than touching your ear, what you should, Mr. Vega, is washing your ears. Because when I was talking about Galician meat in my speech, I was talking about meat that is of excellent quality, which is made with strict criteria of animal welfare and environmental management. [[Applause]] You should therefore try to get out of the only question you have, which is precisely the statement made by the Minister of Consumer Affairs. To play with his ear can tell my neighbor Pili, from Xermade—a neighbour of my entire life—and to see how year after year he sees how he passes the canutas to be able to arrive at the end of the month, assuming precisely the attacks of the wolf, which comes not from six months behind, but from many years ago, and to a Board of Galicia which does not respond to pay him precisely the losses he has for this cattle and has even renounced even to submit the request, Mr. Vega. [[Murmurs.]] The last ones on the list in advance of the CAP funds, and you come here to suck. The last of Spain, Mr. Vega, we are in Galicia to be able to advance these funds. And then you have the face of talking about the law of the food chain, you guys! You are the ones who come here to speak of the food chain, when everyone knows that the law of the food chain which the Government of the People's Party made was absolutely not worth anything, absolutely nothing. A law that had to be amended on two occasions, first in the actual February 2020 decree, which established that the prices agreed on in contracts must cover at least the costs of production — which you have not even established — and now — and it is not to be approved, is that it is already approved, Mr Vega — a legislative reform of the law that agricultural organisations have qualified very positively — that was the qualification. Of course, it is now necessary to make demands and to use the mechanisms to comply with the law. And we all know that there are powers in the ministry and also in the competent authorities of the autonomous communities, which have in their obligation to disband it. Mr. Vega, you continue to base everything on projects, on strategic plans, on legislative reforms as a mechanism to do what they do, and to report that they are very busy and worried about all sectors, but everyone knows that when you don't want to do absolutely nothing announces a plan to let the time pass, trying to confuse public opinion. The problem is in the absence of guidance from agricultural policies throughout their governments. How can they sell after thirty-three of the forty-five years practically of self-government that those who should be part of the structural core of our economy, such as forest and milk, have so little impact? I tell him over and over again, we have 40% and 50% of the raw material, but we only provide 11% and 13% of the state income. Isn't it shocking for you to be that country I'm defining? How can you talk about commitment to rural and combatting the abandonment of this environment, which accounts for 85% of our territory, and then see how those meat farms that are essential in the development of precisely the most depressed areas and with a higher rate of depopulation and aging in Galicia die? And you don't give any solution here, nor have you answered absolutely anything I've proposed to you. When I talk about a lack of guidance, I mean that you must be that locomotive that guides and supports our productive sectors with public policies, and not just with the European Union's funds, which you come here seems to be attributed. We already need a specific plan, but already, of the dimensioning of beef beef holdings within the framework of the PDR's aid for 2023 to 2027; and here it comes to say absolutely nothing. They speak of the 7 million, which, of course, would be another type of action that has been taken. 7 million of the PDR! They gave 7 million of the PDR and could put 24. And they set up half the cellars when they could use funds from Igape, Mr. Vega. That's a reality we all know. [[Applause]] They say absolutely nothing of that digital range — that, of course, we proposed and that you approved and said that they would obviously do so — that you should make a tool for giving transparency to the sale of the cattle. Because, of course, we know that one of the major problems is the excessive benefit of the traffickers. Are they going to put -- because they don't say anything at all the other day, neither the counselor nor you now -- into operation the price observatory? They don't say anything to benefit precisely that sector and to promote approved contracts too so that they have a fixed price. Are they going to take action? Because you're right about the BNG spokesman: The wolf plan already exists. You obviously abandoned him and put him in a drawer and don't even update the current censuses. But are they going to put into operation a system that allows the owners to perceive what they lose? But of course — as the BNG spokesman said — with those losses that occur from a material that they will then sell. The sector needs courage, that's what it needs. And we are aware that the future is not in direct help, but, of course, we must now save the sector and not let many hundreds of small farms that structure our rural territory die. We save the sector, save our farms, help dimensionalize these farms, look for mechanisms to have a price reference that makes it enforce the Prison Law and that producers cover above production costs. We think it's very good that you're developing a strategic plan for meat, but they don't stop taking action in a sector that's in SOS. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u61	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion by G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the Greek language in teaching
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u62	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u63	Thank you, President. In 2005, Kiri Davis, an African American student from New York, published documentary A girl like me. In this documentary in just seven minutes he approached and repeated an experiment that had already been carried out by psychologists, Afro-Americans as well, Kenneth Bancroft Clark and Mamie Phipps Clark in the 1940s. What was this experiment? Well basically in which African American children and children had to choose which dolls they wanted to play with. They were identical dolls, with a single difference: that dolls were white and other dolls represented black dolls. The result of this work by Kiri Davis -- which I'm sure many of the ones we know here -- because there was a video a few years ago that swept through many educational centers in our country by making the relationship between what was linguistic prejudice and racial prejudice -- drew the attention of the entire international community and put three reflections on the table that we believe is important to share here today among all of us. The first of this reflection is that, after decades of a priori policies designed to combat linguistic prejudice, the results obtained in Kiri Davis' work were practically the same as those obtained by Clark's marriage in 1940. That is, 75% of African American children and girls chose to play white dolls and maintained the prejudice of associating white dolls with beautiful, good, and black dolls with ugly and bad; it was an unconscious prejudice. The next of these learnings and reflections that you put on the table is that this choice can be called anyway, except freedom. And the third of these reflections that are put on the table — and that directly fits into the debate that we have here today — is that prejudices are a social scourge that we must exterminate and that prejudice has both to be protected from skin color, sexual orientation or the language in which we speak. Prejudice is a scourge and it is something that we must therefore exterminate from this society. [[Applause]] And, therefore, the question we want to bring here, which we want to share, is whether someone would think it would be normal for, for example, Kiri Davis or Clark's marriage to say to the results of that study that this was a question of freedom, that the children freely chose which dolls they played, that there was nothing under that choice; if anyone would understand that on the basis of those results that were given in American society at that time because governments did not act in the educational system, for example — among other areas — to cut this situation. I think everyone would understand that if these steps were not taken, if they were to perpetuate the prejudice of supremacism. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is exactly what the Government of Galicia is doing in addressing language prejudices in our country. And we put the data on the table. So, as was the case in the selection of white dolls and black dolls, the IGE data -- the IGE, not the BNG -- says the following: eight out of ten children in Greece selects Spanish to navigate the Internet or social networks; only 6% of the children in Greece picks books in English, compared to 94% that selects books in Spanish; only two out of ten children in Greece selects Greek for television, for music, etc. I don't even take a comma from the IGE data or the reality they're reflecting the Galician board's own studies. What if I think it deserves a reflection, just like Clark's marriage, like Kiri Davis did, is that it's legitimate that the Education, Culture and University Advisor Roman Rodríguez said in this plenary just two weeks ago: "we have two languages that we use in absolute freedom." "In the street, normality, cordiality and the spirit of our culture prevails." [[Applause]] This is the way in which the People's Party understands the linguistic freedom of this country, this is the way in which the People's Party and the Galician Union address the socio-linguistic situation in Galicia. And so what we've seen here with this motion, what we've come here with this initiative is only to demand that the People's Party join in the linguistic consensus, which broke unilaterally and of which it should never have gone away. What we've seen here asks the Government of Galicia to decide whether what they're saying, one day yes and the other also, the Galician Council of Culture, the proposal for the linguistic normalization of education, UNESCO, ELEN, the Council of Europe or the Galician Academy is legitimate and something that deserves to be heard; if you believe, you who support the Government of this country, where these bodies say, or if, on the contrary, you prefer to continue to compete with the ultra-right and with Vox to see who the champion of negationism is and to see who the champion of prejudice is. [[Applause]] Because this is what we've been talking about, prejudices that are recognizing the entire international socio-linguistic community. It's not something we say. And in the face of prejudices, in view of those preconceived and scientific opinions, there are only two possibilities — as sociolinguistics themselves recognize, as I am convinced that all of us here know — either accept them or banish them. Well, let's see what's happening in the educational field, because prejudices have names and names. Julia, Vigo's little girl, Galego speaking, enters a child's school and suddenly in a matter of weeks she leaves Greek and goes on to speak in Spanish. I think about these issues we all know some Julia, but I was expecting that reaction, gentlemen of the People's Party, because you're saying this is an isolated case. Well, let's see what the Royal Galician Academy says: 40% of the city's infantry centers never use Greek, eight out of 10 mostly Spanish. Is this what provokes them so much laughter, gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Applause]] The 14% of the children today who have as their initial language are Greek, and that's 14% 10.5% lose Greek in their first contact with childhood education. Is this what motivates your laugh, gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Murmurs.]] But for more cases, Peter, a young man... - don't get nervous, we understand they're in Vox's linguistic policy, but the algorithm, as well as that of Vox, is not good for them. [[Murmurs.]] For more cases, Pedro, a rural boy who joins an institute in a city village, finds himself arriving and observes that virtually no one speaks German in that center and that in matters like Mathematics or Physics is prohibited the use of the Greek. [[Applause]] I think this is a reality that none of us do either. I hope neither of you, gentlemen of the People's Party. What does Galician Union say in this same parliament? Education counselor: "What's normal in the street has to be normal in school." Román Rodríguez in this same parliament. I'm not going to go into the terrible statement that you have, as soon as you analyze yourself in academic terms. This is an OPA hostile to the pillars of education, from Socrates to Vigotsky. But as far as reality is concerned -- let's say -- educational -- what's below this -- IGE data, RAG data -- is that only one out of ten children in high school speaks Greek, the other one would be bilingual and eight speak Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is this the freedom you defend? [[Applause]] And we could talk to other data that later in the replica we can put on the table, but what we are dealing with here is the need for the People's Party to leave the postures ultra, stop being competing in prejudice with the ultra-right and join in the linguistic consensus that is demanding not the BNG—which too—which is demanding the Royal Glaga Academy—which I understand will not be a group of dangerous radical nationalists—that is demanding the Glaga Language Institute, which is demanding the Council of Europe, which is demanding UNESCO and which is demanding — I have no doubt — most of this people. And if not, time in time, gentlemen of the People's Party. And before that, you might be cheating alone, cheating with arguments that I think don't happen because the first proof of truth. You cheat like when they speak as a reference in the PISA Report. They're talking about a reading comprehension test to extrapolate sociolinguistic values. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, two hundred years ago in schools, girls and children probably knew Latin, but Latin was a dead language. This is the exercise you're doing today. [[Applause]] The data they present, for example, with regard to the IGE data, which has to be the Galaga Academy itself which tells them — I want to think that this has caused at least some embarrassment, about the turning of the cheek on some side of the Education Council — I don't know where the data is coming from. We all think the same, except for the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy. That's what you're saying to the Royal Galaga Academy, gentlemen of the People's Party, it's not the BNG. [[Applause]] And, therefore, what we intend to bring here is done in absolutely constructive terms. And, really, we would like that, at least, in the interest of that dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u64	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u65	...—Filled, President—which they want to propose, because they tabled an amendment, something to — let us say — be able to address the issue. But it turns out not, that what the Galician Academy says is not worth, that what the Galician Culture Council says is not worth, that what it says to UNESCO and the Council of Europe is not worth; it is worth what it says its legitimately most parliamentary, but sadly coincides one hundred percent with what it says to the ultra-right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u67	And we think that's not a good future for our language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u68	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u69	Thank you, President. Again, once again, speak, bring here this question of language in teaching; there are very few months we have brought it here too. And truly, besides the young man — because he's finally getting tired — what's really worrying is that he has to come back here again, because he obviously means that nothing has been done to respond to the concerns — as has already been said — not only of the Greek families, but of the educational community itself, and of the experts and experts working on the subject, of the Council of Europe, of the Council of Galician Culture or even of the Royal Galician Academy, very recently as well. We will use our intervention — by the way, I want to make it clear from here our support, our vote in favour of this motion, because all that is claimed here, we too, this parliamentary group also asked for it in various initiatives — and also a little bit we will be guided by the intervention of the Counsellor 15 days ago, by the way, by our view, by an argument — I dare not, I don't know if I can say it — childish, but of course with quite a lack of rigour. As I'm saying, the advisor who the interpellant group used repetitive arguments for his defense, something logical; we're also going to use them here today; of course, as a result that nothing changes and then we're going to have to continue using the same arguments all the time. But look, it seems to us that it was really the counselor who kept repeating the mantra of all time: in Galicia we are much better than in other autonomous communities also with their own languages. All right, so all right, we've got enough of that and come forward, we haven't changed anything. Again little, very little concern for our country, and many also for comparing themselves with other communities, by the way, always on the ground. In advance of a possible response from the People's Group, we have asked them, please, not to compare themselves with other autonomous communities again; of course, our group is indifferent to us. What we should be concerned about is our reality, in addition to the fact that we have to leave aside that comparison with other scenarios and other territories makes sense always when it is done in the same conditions, and that's not the case. The PP also always -- the advisor also did it last week or tried to do it -- positive data to defend his argument. And of course, we think that's already one of the first mistakes. What interests are not the positive ones, they are the negative ones; what interests here is the negative ones, and there are them. As far as our language is concerned in teaching, there are negative data and, in addition, they are rigorous and scientific data. We will again here — we have a somewhat more traumatic intervention than that of the BNG spokesman — from the data, because there is no more. We start with the Council of Europe — the Council of Europe, which I do not think they are too radical people; we think you think the same as us — which has been censoring for years in its reports on the use of minority languages the loss of the presence of Greek in teaching caused by the language policy of the Council of Galicia, and textually says: "It does not respect people's rights to their own language, in addition to failing to comply with the European Charter of Minorized Languages." You'll tell me. The Council of Europe itself suggests eliminating limitations on teaching in English at all levels of education, and warns you that the number of subjects given in German at these centres where English was introduced is as low as 33%, that our language has very little presence in child education — it has been said — and that teaching material in Greek is also very insufficient. As a result of this situation, the Council of Europe says — not us, the Council of Europe — in successive reports: "The percentage of children under 15 years of age who cannot speak German is 23.9%". Of course, maybe you'll say: well, that data is not right, we don't know; as you say in this initiative, then there would be to evaluate, to make that assessment, which has not been made, and to whom indeed that decree of multilingualism is binding. The Galician Institute of Statistics — for us too is a source — says, among other things, that a third of the boys and girls between the ages of 5 and 14 recognise that they don't know or write in the English language and 20% of them say they don't know -- we're not saying they don't talk, but they don't know -- they don't write or speak the English language. But we also have recent, scientific data from the Royal Galaga Academy, with the study of the evaluation of the English-Spanish bilingual competence of the Greek students at the end of compulsory secondary education. And that report notes that there is an accused imbalance to the detriment of the Greek. The Royal Academy, always in the words of this Royal Academy, which we, of course, share, alert to a situation that is not encouraging to the future of our language. In fact, among youth one can no longer say that Greek is the most spoken language; the percentage of use between 15 and 29 years ago was three years ago by 37%. In addition, the Royal Academy points out that, if we compare that data to the year 1995, the number of people who learned to speak initially German fell into twenty points. It also calls on the Royal Academy, as it is said on this initiative, which is the Law of Linguistic Standardization, to promote formal uses and stabilize informals. And I'm speaking in the past, because it's not being fulfilled, obviously. But of course, also the Royal Academy, to the thread of this, points out that Decree 79/2010, that is, the decree known as the decree of plurilingualism, believed this tendency to be based on a conception of plurilingualism that—textual— "does not take into account the situation of a minority of the Greek language." And that's where we found the basic error in PP's language policies from the PSdEG, that's the basic mistake. Well, so far, the data, which are unquestionable; not only demolitioners, but they're unquestionable. Following the recent intervention of Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Román Rodríguez also said that the school has no normalizing capacity, and we can no longer disagree. We don't confuse function with capacity, it's not the same. The school has an educational function, of course, but it also has normalizing capacity; therefore, it is a space of socialization for our little ones for much of their daily time. Of course, there are also other contexts and socializing factors, but they do not deny that the school is also, as it is, by the way, as the Royal Galaga Academy — or better said — an agent of change. Of course, of course, change in the trend that shows a decreasing use of our language. He also called on Mr. Román to another concept which he has already exposed here, the spokesman for the BNG, which is that freedom, the freedom of the PP, the freedom of the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks for the use of the languages, said the Counsellor. We agree with that freedom, of course. Anyone who expresses himself in such a way that he's better at winning. We don't have a problem. What's curious is that the arguments that don't serve for English, which is -- let's remember -- our language, they do serve for English. Because is it true that the Greek Government is concerned that parents and mothers in turn are worried that our children are coming from an education level, for example high school, with a low level of English? That's worried, isn't it? They leave with a low level of Greek no longer, because, as with the Greek we can't go around the world, that must be why. So, of course, why not show the same concern for our language? Freedom, freedom, everything, but the concern already depends on the language in question. We're going to do it, because the counselor also did it fifteen days ago, something demagogy, appealing to this PP freedom. That demagogy leads us to wonder, for example, whether we should also ask the Greek families if they think it is necessary for a boy who is going to choose a letter itinerary to have to spend equal time in his educational life studying for example mathematical probability. Did we ask the families, appealing to that freedom? Isn't that true? But that's not in question anymore, we don't get involved anymore, that debate doesn't come in anymore. Look, the question, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that the knowledge of our language leads to its use; this is obvious; if we don't know it, we can't use it. And it's that use that will ensure the survival of our most precious intangible cultural heritage, our language. That's what the People's Party doesn't seem to understand. And you are on your right not to want to understand, but what is no longer a right, but an obligation, is compliance with the law, compliance with the law and requirements of the Council of Europe as well. Besides, we already know it's too much to want, but we would like you to do your concerns, as I said, of institutions like the Royal Galega Academy, a fine set of institutions, of the associative tissue too, of the educational community, and to work on a new normative framework for the Greek in teaching, which, if you want to respect that freedom of what you so much like, ensures the future of our language, which, as you know, is in the hands of our children and children, is in your hands. And I want to end with a desire, which is not to make our language a political conflict; let's not make it a political conflict. Please pay attention to the requirements of the institutions and understand the defense of our language as something constructive, aware that Greek is a distinguishing element of our culture, which gives us -- as Ramon Piñeiro said -- "soul of its", but, as a differentiation element, it means it is also an enriching and integrating element. Starting from there, we will probably finally achieve that consensus on language in teaching that opposition groups have long claimed. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. This camera picked up an interpellation in recent days to the holder of Education, Culture and University, in the voice of the Galego Nationalist Block, and the truth is that we were able to hear and observe a speech of cryption such as your sovereign group, Mr. Lourenzo. I'm interested in rereading the draft of his intervention, and the truth is, it's funny how he brings artillery in a high tone, but then he asks this camera, most of the Greeks, for consensus. Once again the facts show that the Galician Nationalist Block says one thing, but it really keeps thinking about it: its own political interest. He speaks, Mr. Lourenzo, of linguistic consensus, but he presents a motion with repetitive points debated on repeated occasions and that they did not count on the majority support of the House of Wales. For example, the recent May 2021 resolution or even this year's DA resolution. He speaks of linguistic consensus, but he once again calls for a derogation from the plurilingualism decree; we have already lost the accounts that the matter has been asked for and debated. And most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, they are able to request their derogation before it has been approved. And he speaks of linguistic consensus. They call for a great deal of agreement for language in teaching, but when this parliamentary group tried to achieve it in 2013 the Nationalist Block Galego, in its pursuit of supremacy, only wanted to repeal the decree, being impossible to reach consensus. A record that helps to find out that the facts disassemble what they say or disguise it with words of moderation. Even though after the recent messages from his re-elected leader on the claim of the Galego Nationalist Block to open a new time in the future, to think of a large Galician, to widen the nationalist organization, for he really thought, Mr. Lourenzo, that they would put aside that pessimistic vision and that they really tried to connect with most of the Greeks, who think that there is no linguistic conflict in Galicia, that both the Greek and the Spanish can live perfectly. [[Applause]] Those messages you've been praying for at the last assembly are actually a smokescreen, because you're still the same. There is no more to listen to the statements of his spokesman in Congress, who proclaims that Galicia will be sooner than late a free and sovereign republic. In short, they're still where they always are. In his independent bubble they aim to create the Greek language conflicts. Conflicts, Mr. Lourenzo, like the recently presented in reference to Galicia and in which, once the Socialist Group had radically opposed, you had to swallow — never said better — your own words. And what's amazing is that the Socialist Party buys the speech from the Galician Nationalist Block, to the point of registering a amendment to the Law of Measures on which the urgent recruitment of health personnel, Mrs. Díaz, in the middle of the pandemic, undergoes a test of knowledge of the Greek. I will provide you with information: Amendment No 33. But we're going to start by parties and look at whether the Galician Nationalist Block is really willing to defend language in Galicia under the framework of the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy and the Law of Linguistic Standardization. Mr. Lourenzo, do you want Galicia to have a linguistic conflict in teaching how Catalonia is living, which does not respect judgments of coexistence of the two official languages, after the Supreme Court took the language immersion in Catalonia? What's wrong with learning English, Spanish and a foreign language? Look, in the interrogation you talked a lot about the need for dialogue and linguistic consensus. Look, there is no greater consensus, Mr. Lourenzo, than the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government and the Law of Linguistic Standardization. [[Murmurs.]] Because this chamber witnessed great reasonable consensus in linguistic matters. Look, for example: Lei Paz Andrade; example: initiative Xabarin. The People's Party was also able to join the initiatives that are not their own, outside this chamber, as the one starred on July 15, 2015, on the 130th anniversary of the passage of Rosalía de Castro. During the last decade, in which we assumed the normality of bilingualism with respect and without imposition of any kind, the greatest index of knowledge of the Welsh history, with an oral understanding of almost 100% and the writing of 83%, was reached. In Galicia we have two languages, we know both and there's linguistic cordiality, and of course we're going to work to keep it going. [[Applause]] See, the report drawn up by the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service of the Government of Spain, which you have strongly supported on page 12 of this report, because you want to see it — a July 2020 report — "It can be said, therefore, that there are no limitations to the teaching of Galician people in Galicia, but the follow-up of a bilingual education system, which, on the other hand, endorses several scientific studies, as well as the results obtained. Therefore, it should be attributed to the implementation of this model of language teaching in Galicia most of the positive data that sociolinguistic studies expose on knowledge and acquisition of the Galician language in the population in any of the types of competences: oral understanding, writing, oral expression and writing". But I'm going to teach you a chart, a table, it's very clarifying: people who study in Galicia, according to the language in which they receive classes per age. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez shows a document.]] But look, you gave a data, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral, and Mrs. Díaz, and besides, you nailed it: they talked about 24% didn't speak Greek; then they want to corroborate and conclude that 76% recognize the Greek language, just the percentage. Of course, it's important for you to talk a lot about 24% and not really about 76%, which is what we were focusing on. The Galician Nationalist Block focuses its motion only on the educational field, and here I take advantage of it to show and thank the enormous effort and work of our teachers. But observe, Mr. Lourenzo, another table, which you may like very much. They're data, eloquent, relating to people who can write in English and claim to learn it. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez shows a document.]] Look, at school or in the family. And where we really have the problem is at work or in other areas, where of course we focus and we want to keep working. [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez shows a chart of the document.]] You focus on the problem of the Greek language in teaching. It's not true. You're wrong in your diagnosis, but also in your treatment, where we have to work, and I really invite you to collaborate and participate in the dynamization of the Greek language out of classes, in extra-school activities, in the socio-workplace, in sports, in digital and, above all, in youth. They do not focus, uniquely and exclusively, on the dynamization of Welsh in the educational field. A comprehensive language policy is needed, as the German Government develops. And, in fact, I'm telling you more: the Basque Community is following that line. I'm going to break down the different plans in which the German Government works. The Plan to dynamize Welsh in Economic Fabric 2016-2020; the Plan to dynamize Welsh in Youth 2019-2022; the Plan to dynamize the Greek language in Sport; the We project, an incipient initiative that is interested in artificial intelligence in the service of the Greek language, which is the main goal of ensuring that citizenship can interact in Greek in the digital world at the same level as other speakers in other languages; an initiative that allows to generate and expand a variety of digital resources in English, free of charge and with open source. Look, we have a clear example, which I think all of your lordships know and triumph on social networks, which has a great welcome for all young people and also for not young people, like the program I tell you. They don't destroy, nationalistic gentlemen, the built; that represents political cowardice. Let's keep working on the language of all Galicia. The language is the wealth that all the Greeks have, the reason for pride, that among all of us we must care for and empower. We face the defence of the Greek language with an integral approach, which enables us to advance in education, culture, in the digital world, in the family environment, in the socio-economic sphere, in sport and, above all, in youth. We watch for linguistic coexistence and for citizens to see useful the two co-official languages that know them and use them fully in freedom. Most of the Greeks have shown their compliance with the current language model in Greek education, because Galicia does not want the monolingual linguistic immersion desired by the Galician Nationalist Block, to emulate other nationalists within the state. The two languages are vehicles in Galicia's teaching. In our Community linguistic immersion is not allowed by the Law of Linguistic Standardization, by the way, a law which the Nationalist Block of Wales has repeatedly asked for in this chamber to be changed because it impedes its claim. We have a clear model, a Greek model, a model of our own, and the PISA report, which you clearly did not refer to — and it was not — as well as it was not done — indicates that we are the community where the student speaks his co-official languages more easily. Galicia is the autonomous community in which the student claims to be more competent in at least two languages, with 96%, above other autonomous communities with their own language. Look, the really important thing is that the student in Wales knows, speaks, and uses the two co-official languages. Finished, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, they don't want to move forward with society, and Galician society, in addition to moving forward, has contexted them; they don't share their vision of dark Galicia; therefore, 42 versus 19. Mr. Lourenzo, probably, the conflict with language is an internal conflict within the bosom of his party, but the Greeks are free to speak English and Spanish whenever, how and where we want. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u72	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author of the motion, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u73	Thank you, President. Previous question, Mrs. Vázquez Domínguez. I thank you, all your comrades and colleagues, for the hard and exhausting follow-up you make of the National Assembly of the BNG. I say it because it's very positive, because all these processes usually bring rich things. For example, your congress, your congress in Vigo is shooting GDP in Taramundi, Albacete. So all processes help to enrich, and it's good that we follow them. [[Applause]] But well, jokes aside, as we're talking about serious issues, referred to this need to live perfectly with the two languages. We can't agree anymore. What we are looking at is that you understand how perfect coexistence, for example, is that in the electoral campaign they met with the promoters of the basic proposal to reach an agreement with linguistic normalization in teaching and past the elections they watched every fifteen days, commission after commission of education. And so, Mrs. Vázquez Domínguez, that's what you understand because you don't laugh and because you're not tall. Maybe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that's what you understand for freedom. Like you, and referring to the data you brought yourself, because you may also understand about freedom and equality that one in four children in this country can't speak German. It's just that I don't ask you to create me, but if you don't read the IGE data -- that you get very nervous -- but if you don't read the IGE data, it's something you have to solve and I can't solve it. [[Murmurs.]] And there are the schematics, and if you don't know them, you do the duties and read what you have to read before you come to this parliament. [[Applause]] So, therefore, of course, and it's curious that the data were presented backwards. It was presented that 76% of children under the age of 15 can speak German. Of course, it turns out that this country is called Galicia, it has its own language and we're not in Kuala Lumpur, because that data you bring, if you refer to Kuala Lumpur, because we would say: well, because fantastic. But it turns out that in Galicia, 76% of the children know how to speak German to you, it turns out that it's something to be proud of because it's certainly something to be seen; there everyone with their expectations. [[Applause]] In any case, you'll see if this perspective that you and Vox's ultra-right celebrate matches or doesn't match what the Royal Galaga Academy is saying, whether it matches or doesn't match what the Galician Culture Council is saying. Yes, we have these references, you have Mr. Abascal and the right one, you will know why they do. In any case, you'll know why you prefer to be on that stage rather than what you're saying to UNESCO and the Council of Europe. [[Applause]] But of course, you were talking about respecting the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government. Mrs Vázquez Domínguez, you know that the European Charter of Regional and Minorized Languages, a document signed in 2003 by a government of Xose Maria Aznar, has the value of law of fundamental rank. So it's a law where the level of non-compliance should be approved by the Statute and the Constitution. So look, because they respect the law of fundamental ranks so much, they apply the story and stop being ridiculous about the reports that the Council of Europe is drawing out for systematic non-compliance in linguistic matters. And of course, that they don't have the colors on their face with these reports from the Council of Europe, and that they come here to assume that the language of Europe that has had a greater fall of usual speakers in the last five decades, almost sixty points, a situation from which you assume, is a situation that you call cordiality, freedom and equality, it's really something to see and something to look at, because, gentlemen of the People's Party, it's in absolute collision with what the entire international linguistic society is saying and all the agents who have spent more than five minutes of their lives studying language issues; it's more: anyone who has spent more than ten minutes on this topic in the institute would know that this data is on the table. [[Applause]] Bring the question of the conflict — to end, People's Party gentlemen —. There's a maxim that's bringing all these agents, the entire international socio-linguistic community, which part of it is an absolute fallacy that someone can make the flag of freedom if to exercise that freedom there's no equality. Today, with linguistic data, which is reflecting the IGE, which is putting it on the table and throwing it out of the ears of the People's Party, the Royal Galaga Academy, if anything is shown, is that there is no such equality, and what you will have to put on the table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u75	...to the future of this country, towards future generations of spokespersons, is why they preferred to please those people who in Madrid tell them that language politics must accept rather than bet for the future, for normalization and because this language has, as Cunqueiro said, a thousand more spring. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u76	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. We'll stop the session until 16.15.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u77	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xoese Luís Rivas Cruz, on the economic situation of the milk sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u78	No amendments were tabled. Mr Rivas has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u79	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. In the year 2000 — first of the Fexóo era — Galicia had 13,349 dairy farms; ten years later, in 2019, we would have fallen to 7,688 and two years later, in this 2021 we are walking, we are in 6,443; that is, in twelve years we lost 6,906 dairy farms, an average of 575 farms per year. And of no use was the so-called "rural legislation", which began in 2016. It must be said — if any — that these figures do not produce them by the alarmists, the BNG catastrophes; the catastrophe in this case has a name: the People's Party. Yes, we are aware that the number of cows is practically the same and that production has still increased. These would be the People's Party's pride figures and they are the ones that alarm us, because less exploitation and more intensity are not equivalent to more quality and more economic dynamism, but instead they imply a loss of management of the territory, of product quality, of implantation, of sustainability and of humanization of milk gain activity. This decline is accused and more alarming; it is above all when the future is not clear and on these farms hang several serious threats: one, the lack of generational relief —manifest; two, much of the livestock feed is the basis of concentrates made with cereals, sound, cotton seed..., which come from the fifth hell and give rise to a dependency and volatility of dangerous prices, all due to poor planning and abandonment of the rural to their fate; three, the constant negative of the dairy industry and the distribution to that the buying prices to the products and but the finals that pay the consumer really respond to the value of this product and not the commercial strategies that only prejudicate a link of the milk package: the producer, the farmer, the dairy company, that brings all those who are lost. Can you change your situation if you change your name and give you another one? Today, the main problem in rural areas, which directly affects their ability to have a future, we deal with the sector we are dealing with, is the calculation of reference production costs and their application from markets. And who are the markets? For all those agents who put that primary product in the consumer shopping basket. They are those agents, the processing industry and the distribution, the multinationals of food, who mark prices and order the supply, demand and prices and more each other's profits. And who regulates markets? Well, according to the holy neoliberal bible, they may regulate themselves, and they only watch for freedom -- they would miss more! -- everyone receives their fair payment for their activity and the product they generate. The bad thing is that those who bear the greatest weight, the hard part of the process, is always the bottom part; and if this process opens up a lot, that part below, today raised by the beginning of the others to the category of entrepreneurs, to those, the owners, when the market extends its arms with special affection, it ends up suffocating them and converting those who were entrepreneurs and supply the distribution of excellent food. And so the distribution gets its own brand, white mark, instead of extorting the first link in the chain. And who comes from negotiable goods to distribution? For the transformation, and this is responsible for tightening the ties to producers and producers refusing to consider the rise of costs in contracts that "offer them". I know, I'm very poetic today with this that I'm saying, speaking as coldly of something as buccolic as the happy entrepreneurs of the field, milk, cheese, meat, onions, potatoes, eggs, the countryside, the traditional caps of fattening... now that comes to the caps fair of Vilalba for Christmas. They are the Marxist negationist materialism of the Christmas spirit. And there's the contract, it's got a confidentiality clause that you're protesting, "And that's gonna cover my production costs, it's gonna be a joke, isn't it?" "Oh, no ho! You know, it's something politicians put there to figure it out, but I can't pay you any more, huh? You know, if you don't get the price, change the factory, you're free." Give it to another, give it to him, yes, give it to him. This is mafia. Sorry, it's the market, the free competition, the earthly paradise. First pre-contracted: Lactalis is always the first to mark the milk package; collect about 20% of Galician milk, dated December 1, 2021 until February 2023. First clause, heading the contract: the supplier acknowledges that the agreed price covers the actual cost of production of its operation — in rigorous Spanish, of course —. Of every 1,000 liters, 75% goes to 30 cents, and 25% goes according to the average price of milk in powder published weekly, as long as it is kept between 27.5 cents and 32.5 cents. Oh, surprise! Here it can be rejected by an objective reference price, published weekly by the European Commission in its report — and they do not laugh, please — EU prices of Dairy products!, which is being "prices of dairy products in the European internal market". I don't talk about it, but why am I going to lie? In the family, at home, we practiced it. But, returning to the matter of what we were talking about, then to set up tops that blind the industry to possible losses if there are binding and mandatory reference prices. There's a...! All this we're debating, that you can't set reference prices, that it's not legal, to circumvent free competition, everything is lies, lordships; a burda and dirty lie, an imposition of the multinationals of industry and the distribution that you treat with a "yes, bunk" of service acceptance. The Bipartite fell in 2009, with its approved contracts, with the farm management groups, with the Milky Way Observatory and the Milk Table, and the oligopolies came to their offices and ordered them to stop, and prices began to fall in 2009. Curious, coincidence. And in these, to conceal, they made a law of the food chain, you people of the PP, with Mr. Rajoy; a joke. It comes into force on 3 January 2013, it undergoes eight changes: in May 2014, and in July 2014 — something that should not work well and have given it a touch — another change in May 2015 and again in July 2015, and in July 2017, in December 2018, in February 2020 and in December 2020 as well. Anything else? Well, yes, we have to add the last one, this one that excitedly passed through the two chambers of the state and there was no political value; the two main parties hid their ears and didn't want to see, they didn't want to contemplate the farmers and producers of the countryside, the peasants and the peasants, in their problem and in their despair. Then all Gods will do poetry uncompromisingly about the empty and deep Galician loneliness, and even will break it if some of us show the crusader reality. They'll say, as usual, that the Greek countryside is modern, dynamic and that we're barbarians. But the blind who refuse to see are you; because reality creates itself in every word at work, at the departure of mass, at the tavern, at the Magisterium or at rest; because the bottom of the problem that we bring to the debate can be synthesized in a few words: farmers and farmers are in the absolute indefension in front of these oligopolies that are the processing industry and rather the marketing or distribution. Because you guys don't have politics to provide this law so shaky of the tool you need to avoid committing this injustice that we denounce. They weren't able to give articles 9 and 12.3 an amendment that provided what producers were demanding for a while ago. They are, therefore, accomplices of this disguised and responsible situation through the sector, because they have allowed and allowed milk to be a product claim in hyper, super, commercial areas and markets in general and sold for losses. Ladies and gentlemen, if we allow this abuse to continue, if we do not exercise as representatives of the people who work and claim in justice reasonable prices for their products, we will not deserve this consideration and respect that we still have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u80	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u81	Thank you, President. The BNG presents a motion for the situation that is living the dairy farms of our country, a situation — as I said before — derived from the structural problems generated during thirty-three of the 40 years of right-wing government since the adoption of the Autonomy Statute; a right that once again tries to transfer its responsibilities to Madrid, with a prison law that had to be modified by the current Government in the face of the inoperation of the People's Party a few years ago; a People's Party that seems to have nothing to do with this situation now, but in the full past has brought an initiative that was an amendment to the entire politics of its party for decades. From the PSdeG we will support the motion presented today by the BNG asking the Government of Greece to stop looking for excuses and take measures within the competences of the Government of Greece to address the problems of our owners. We ask them to assume that they are Government and to assist in the development of our rural primary activities. You, and the whole society, know that the Government of Mariano Rajoy has approved a Food Chain Act that has not served absolutely anything, a law that has been positively modified by the current Government of the State in Royal Decree 5/2020, which establishes that the prices agreed on in contracts must cover at least the costs of production; and now it has done a legislative reform of the law that agricultural organizations have qualified as positive, and from now on it has become demanding and that mechanisms are used to comply with that law, and we all know that they are competent over both the AICA and the competent authorities of the autonomous communities, who also have the obligation to develop these mechanisms. From the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food must be hard and responsible, so we ask them to make the law enforce. In that line, they reinforced the operation of AICA in the budgets of 2021 and 2022; and in the meantime, the Greek Government is once again left without doing anything to claim, as always, solutions from Sánchez. The reality is that in Galicia the prices that our milk farmers receive are up to 3 cents below autonomous communities like Asturias, so we should look a little at our home to reverse a situation that makes the Greeks who dedicate themselves to livestock be the least paid by Spain and Europe for the milk of their cattle. As I said in the past, the People's Party had the opportunity to make it clear that they wanted to take action on this issue when it was the People's Party itself, which presented an initiative that called on the Galician Union to take the measures that were appropriate to promote investment by dairy industries in products of greater added value. Our group, sharing with the People's Party in this case that this is one of the serious problems that our sector has on this day, presented an amendment to addendum to demand that all industry support measures be conditional upon which they guarantee fair contracts for producers. But even though the People's Party is asking other administrations to enforce the Prison Law, it turns out that when they have the opportunity to take the initiative they don't accept our amendment, right at a time when we all knew what was becoming part of the dairy industry in the negotiation of contracts that offered our producers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, on the one hand, they ask that the Prison Law be observed, but, yes, others do. Why link the aid that our administration offers to industries to comply with the Prison Law and pay the producers above production costs? What a strange thing these socialists have! Are they credible, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Or are they just looking for ways to blame others for their inability to support the fair claims of our producers and while continuing with their complicity with some of the dairy industry, who is mistreating our livestock today? In the People's Party, they try to confuse public opinion when they say, arrogant, that there is an increase in the profitability of our 7% livestock and livestock; some assertions that I want to make clear here that they are not true, because these data are not derived from the fact that dairy farms have a higher yield in their production; they are unique and exclusively because they produce more milk, and, the higher production, higher invoicing, but not because of that greater profit by litre of milk produced. As I said on other occasions, what is needed is an active policy of land management structures that supports the increase in the territorial base of farms with regard to land abandonment and the limitation of eucalyptus planting on agricultural land. After decades of the People's Party Government, more than two-thirds of our territory is in a state of abandonment; we have less than 25% of our land of useful land while Spain has twice as much, and every year in Galicia, about six hundred farms are closed. We have whole regions dismantled and, in the meantime, millions of euros are invested in unnecessary constructions and there is no real commitment or a definite goal to promote political measures that make Galicia occupy its rightful place in this sector. We have received vast amounts of money from the European Union — you have managed around €6 billion of European RDP funds over the past 12 years, being of the five regions of Spain that receive the most funds — but the dismantling of the instruments of support for the productive agricultural sectors has been absolute, from centres of recognized international prestige such as the Mabegondo's ICAM or the Lourizán's CIF, through the agricultural training centres or the extensive network that we had of agricultural extension offices. Galicia has a weight in the dairy industry that is not equal to its weight in the producer sector, we all know. Of the ten main dairy groups in Spain, there are only four in Galicia: Lactalis, Capsa, TGT and Lactogal. Other large groups of Spain lack factories in Galicia. To find the first German capital industry, you have to go to the 16th position of the ranking, where milk river is located. And I don't want to forget the bad behavior that two of these big international companies have with our owners and that they are denounced day by day by agricultural organizations. That stage of weakness in the dairy industry is reflected in data, in the fact that more than 48% of the milk produced in Galicia moves out unprocessed. The milk processed in Galicia, moreover, is dedicated to its packaging as liquid milk, which usually brings less value added than its transformation into other dairy products. In Galicia the two dairy factories are dedicated exclusively to the milk packaging, when the same group in Spain devotes 50% of the milk packaged to drinks and the other 50% to dairy products of the highest added value, such as cheeses, yogurts or butter. In global figures, only 32% of Spain is packed — here I remember it almost all — while the other same percentage of 32% goes for complaints. The German percentage for cheese is only 15% of the milk we produced. If we analyze, in addition, the milk destined in our community to the designations of cheese origin, which means, here we only have 1.8%, with evolution, in addition, that goes in a negative sense. As they now want to do with meat, the German Government on its day has presented this famous 2020-2025 Strategic Plan with 125 measures; they say they want to turn that 51% of milk to 75% in the coming years, and they say that in order to succeed they will support the industrial projects they want to develop in Galicia. They also say they want to bet on support for research, training and advice on agriculture, but the reality is what they said earlier: they've been leaving education and public research for 12 years, as researchers themselves report. They're trying to strengthen the service they give to the 68 comarcial agricultural offices, which they say, in addition, that they're now going to complete with a mobile office, but the reality is that until today they've been dismantled. The papers bear everything, but the strategic plan for the dairy sector that presented the Government of Greece will only be credible if the measures it envisages are accompanied by determination in its development and contain the budgetary tools necessary to carry them out. In these days, an agricultural organization warned that the German livestock lost between 2020 and 2021 11.45% of their income by up to production costs, which have reached almost 17% in recent months, while industries such as Capsa and Lactalis will treasure an 18% and 24% invoicing increase in the same period, respectively, thanks to the re-evaluation of liquid milk in the lines, distribution and unstoppable up of industrial derivatives, such as fat. With this data, it is essential that administrations enforce the law with companies that have a privileged position to condition their original milk quotes, since they represent 18% in one case, with 1,200 payers, and the other 15%, with a total of 1,000 payers, which are -- that's -- 18% and 15% of 6,500 payers from all over Galicia. The so-called companies in the period from February to October 2021 improved revenues only in Galicia about 22 million euros, which would allow more than 4 cents/litre to growers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I ask your Government to, apart from asking others to do their job so that they can cover the costs of production, put in place measures to really improve the territorial base of the farms, do their work to ensure that the owners cover above the costs of production, push for partial mergers, training and public research, enhance cooperativeism, make industries transform their raw material into higher-cost products... i.e., make politics in their competences. If they do, I'm sure our owners will stop being the least paid out of Europe for their milk. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u82	Thank you, Mr. Seco García. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Candia López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u83	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. I do not hide that the possibility of being able to analyze the difficult situation that many dairy farms are experiencing - not only from Galicia but from Spain - seems very interesting to me. And I have to say that I thank the Galician Nationalist Bloc for giving me once again the opportunity to convince him of the five important points we have defended — that they have gone forward, of course, as they will remember — at the last plenary session. I don't hide that it must be the marked localist character that there's nothing that motivates me more than talking about people's real problems. And, of course, we don't laugh when you spoke in English, you know that we... It's better for you to study it, it's bad for you to study it at home and study it at school. Having said that — and allowing me to play that game — I wonder how your group has not supported any of the five points that we discussed in the last plenary session. And I would also be surprised — probably by the intense work this weekend to Mr. Seco, I would not give him time to read the initiative properly — because he focused all his debate on the attack and even looking at the Group of the People's Party, when the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block also places duties on the Government of the State. But, in the end, that's what the counselor said this morning, it's enough that at any initiative he puts on the People's Party logo, each one puts on the boxing gloves and exits here, with or without her, more or less always saying the same arguments. And I, being really consistent, but also doing justice to the owners and the governors... it's indisputable -- it seems that this data bothers them, but it's a reality and the reality is there to check -- there are fewer exploitations, but it's true that they're a bigger dimension, they're more invoiced and they charge more for milk. That's math. And it's not the People's Party's merit, I told you at the last plenary session, it's the merit of some gainful, self-sustaining, professional, genetic improvement, as they said this morning... that they want to do their job better and better. And allow me also without any pride, with all humility, to tell you that you will not teach them lessons, because you still think that the Greeks still report to the church. You still think we're in that Galicia. Then, with all affection, I invite you to visit municipalities in my province, to know them well, and to see the reality. [[Applause]] I will again take advantage of the opportunity to ask why you have not supported the Ministry in urging it to have mechanisms to strengthen the negotiating position of our farms. In the diagnosis we agreed, we also coincided a lot in the solution, just listen to it. Why don't you support him? Why did the People's Party start it? Well, it's okay, maybe at the end of this intervention we can come to an agreement. I do not understand why they did not support the establishment of appropriate dairy producers' organisations that oversized and also strengthen the possibility of negotiation. That the Food Chain Act adopted in 2013, signed by Mr. Rajoy — ill that weighs him, although he had been further improved on repeated occasions; let us give him the merit he has, without pride, but with realism — that if he complies with that law, it is not a request from the People's Party, this is heard in all concentrations or demonstrations of gain, which are not only in Galicia, Mr. Rivas, Mr. Seco. Precisely the communication they just signed in León a few days ago was from all over Galicia threatening to stop making deliveries. It's a national reality. That's how you interpret it, and you recognize it, it's not to throw balloons out. Everyone, from their responsibilities, has to build and be part of the solution; but if we focus on this is a Greek problem, because I think we're wrong. I also do not understand why they did not support raising awareness campaigns to raise awareness of the essential role of the primary sector in the provision of quality food. Look, this morning I was listening to the minister, the Socialist Party, in an interview on a radio, and he gave me a data that left me deeply concerned: in the year that Spain entered the European Union, a family devoted 30% of its budget to food and said that this year that percentage was halved. Spain's priorities — she spoke in national terms — changed, and moved it as a deep concern, because it's more than ever indispensable; and they're percentages that the minister gave, the People's Party didn't give them. Why does it not support and reinforce the positioning of the brand "Gaga 100%" or "Paper's Milk"? Why, instead of talking about situations, catastrophes or poetry—that, believe me, at this moment, is the least they want to listen to the sheep, although they will surely like poetry, like all the Greeks, but we are at a time of giving solutions—not concrete and why do they not support when the positioning of a brand like "Glaga 100%" or "Bed milk" is to give value and be able to raise the price of milk? Why can't we vote in favour of increasing the territorial base of our holdings? It was a point of our initiative. Why didn't you support it when you in your diagnosis, apart from the generational relief, at the next point you talk about the size of the farms? Why don't you support him? Why don't you support the constitution of the Galego Milky Way Observatory? Which, of course, knows that we had to propose because it's within our strategy, but it's a key tool, precisely, for you to put in your own initiative, in point 2: "to achieve a better sectoral structure, to analyze and advance on issues that affect the productive environment, to improve the interlocution and transparency between the different links in the chain..." Why didn't you support all this? Why does point 3 of his initiative "ask the Government of the State, in the development of the Food Chain Act, which provides the productive sectors with an objective public tool that sets production costs?" Isn't that the definition of the Milky Account? Why don't you back him up? Why did the People's Party set him up? Well, I told you -- and so I finished the speech at last plenary session -- that this is a very serious debate, let's talk in any language, but of course, thinking about what matters. And, as I reminded Mr. Seco a minute ago, "the milk cattle..." — I say in Spanish because they took it -- "...no longer stand and decide to make a delivery strike. And they meet in Valencia by Don Juan, León, on December 3rd." We are in a national reality, and the minister himself, when asked the interlocutor, the journalist, if he had planned to give direct help, answered that we were on an absolutely European stage. He asked the question, and his answer was that he didn't rule out anything, but that he was going to go to Brussels and see how he could focus on it because undoubtedly a penny was millions, millions and millions of euros and that he had to give with the right system. It's a national reality. The German Government has made its roadmap, approved the strategy of the dairy sector and is in agreement with the sector. Surely you may have come, and today again — because, I insist, the situation is worrisome — what our farmers and farmers want is that positive proposals are coming out of here. I mean, if you're more sympathetic or less sympathetic, it doesn't matter, what they care about is the solutions, which use more convincing arguments or less. And I'm telling you, if you're worth it, at this point 3, and we're including as an objective public tool mechanism to set production costs and, therefore, to strengthen the negotiating position, the Milky Account, this group has no problem in supporting that point, and even the 2, but, if not, I invite you to try to reach an agreement. It is true that you do not deserve it, because it is certainly inexplicable that in the five points that I have explained to you again in this plenary session, which gather the reality with proposals for solution and with specific data, you abstained; because it was not against either, but it is the fact that "I do not support it because the People's Party presents it." But we're different, it's unquestionable; therefore, precisely, the gainees, essentially the Greeks, from the countryside, continue to opt for the People's Party when they have to choose who will rule the Union of Galicia. That's why we're different and we're not going to do the same thing as you because you present it. If there's anything we can agree on with your hand. And I'm telling you more, believe me, that's really what the Greeks and the Greeks are expecting from us. The Socialist Party, as I pointed out, has not read the initiative because it only criticized and said what they ask the People's Party but has not mentioned anything they decide in the Government of Spain. And if I'm going to give a data -- and I'm done now -- it seems very important to me. Many times this group - and I do it too, because I am convinced that I must do it, because it is a responsibility - the Galician Nationalist Block - that, in addition, I remind the Greeks and the Greeks -, no matter how much he criticizes sometimes or so, he is undoubtedly a necessary and complicit co-operative and dances absolutely to the music that marks the Socialist Party, especially in Galicia, but also in Spain. I reread and reread that pact for what they did to Pedro Sánchez president and I can't find a single line that picks up a proposal for a solution or defense from our farmers and livestock. So I call things by their name and be the most faithful to the truth that obliges us to the enormous trust they have placed in us the Greeks, I beg you to look at this with affection, the same as I try to profess to you when I have occasion, and let us get out of here a positive message, because we are not proposing anything new that would not take this group to the last plenary session. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the author of the motion, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Go ahead, this subscriber, who doesn't usually go to Mass yesterday, for example, attended the exit of my parish church — a parish that still keeps 14 dairy farms, some of them very pushy — at a meeting for parish affairs. Therefore, the departure of the Mass is still, even for those who are not going to the Mass, a meeting point. [[Applause]] Second, let's see, we... I don't know what you want to think about Mr. Tellado there. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Comes nice today. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you know why... You know perfectly well, because you're also a smart person, why don't we support yours. Because it contained inaccuracies and lies. First, the Milky Way Observatory isn't going to mount it, in any case, they're going to "recompose" it because it was already mounted and it worked. That's an inaccuracy or a lie. [[Applause]] Second, the Milky Account. There were the AXEs. Do you know what the Business Management Groupes were? Do you know what they were? Search and look for them to serve and how they worked. There was - obviously there was - a table of milk that worked, there were approved contracts. And that's all before 2009, because in 2009 you guys came in and they made a straight table of everything and started again. Now they've fallen into account. Of course, we have to abstain because we don't trust, really; we distrust you like fire. Actually, we don't have another one left, we don't have another one left. [[Murmurs.]] Good. You also heard the moneywinners out with these same claims in 2015, and you didn't only ignore them, but they blew them up. And that showed you the other day and they weren't able to break up the theory, which is not theory, but it's reality, they were exposed to it. But, well, it's all for the sake of the sector. We are willing to dialogue, of course, we are willing. And we're talking about those two points. What about the first one, huh? Why? Do you not have, then, reincarnations like to set up a meeting between distribution, between industry and producers to see their faces? Have they no power, or do they not leave their distribution and transformation? Or doesn't the big capital let them work? Of course, montetena, montetena, they have no problem. [[Applause]] Sit down, invite us to some "cafese" and some "partages" and dialogue, just dialogue -- yes, it was like it was said in my time; I'm old, what I'm going to do! -- Look, the debate is very serious. Our honourable Member agrees, the Food Chain Act can be changed and must be amended. I tell you, our only Member who has clicked and voted against all this is willing. Move it, move it, you and me. Move, move, move, move! [[Mr. Rivas Cruz marks with his hand the seats of G. P. Popular and G. P. of Galician Socialists.]] The sector is waiting! I mean, not just the dairy sector, the whole sector, all the sectors that produce in this our rural blessing. Movan checks and we'll agree. Look, to finish, because I want -- I'm really, you know, I'm not angry or much less, which, in addition, is bad for the stress -- On August 3, 2013 to the Law of the Food Chain of the People's Party of Mr. Rajoy — who we now know who he is — in Article 12, third, which deals with the destruction of value in the chain, says: "In order to avoid the destruction of value in the food chain, each operator of the People's Party must pay the operator immediately before a price equal to or greater than the actual cost of production of such a product in which the operator has actually incurred or assumed it". [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] That's clear. You've already coined it, and since then they haven't been able to shape it. What's wrong? Who's tight? How much, how tight? Why don't you move? Move. I'm telling you, our legitimate Member in Madrid is willing... He's here! Man, of course, as bad as you care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, it's worth more than one or half of our fellow Members than all of you here and in Brussels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u86	The debate on this motion has ended. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want to trade? Yes, that's important yes. Above all. [[Pause.]] There's already a deal about that. Well, then we start the vote and then they'll tell us. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u87	We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government on the beef sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u88	We now vote on the motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the initiative of Mr Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral. There are no amendments. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, on the policy of the Italian Government in relation to the situation of the Greek language in teaching. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u89	And finally, we voted for the motion of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr. Xoese Luís Rivas Cruz. There seems to be an agreement and, as there are no amendments, Mr. Rivas should read it, so that Mr. Seco may have knowledge of the... and then decide what the vote is like. Give Mr. Rivas a voice. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u90	Yes, thank you very much, President. In fact, it is a point vote, in which there is a transaction in point 3, which would be demanded by the Government of the State that in the development of the Food Chain Act if it provides the productive sectors of an objective public tool that sets binding and mandatory reference production costs or that if it is allowed to use for its determination sources of the Ministry of Agriculture — such as Rengrati, the so-called Milky Account, the studies published by the different observatories of the Autonomous Community or those carried out by universities or public bodies. Is that so, Mrs. Candia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u91	Give a voice to Mrs. Candia's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u92	Yes. That it remains expressly, giving validity to the Milky Account.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u93	That's right. Okay. Mr. Seco has already found out. So now we have to split the dots, right? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote first point number one. We vote. Point 1 vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xose Luís Rivas Cruz, on the economic situation of the dairy sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u94	We now vote points 2 and 3 of the motion. Vote for points 2 and 3 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xose Luís Rivas Cruz, on the economic situation of the dairy sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. Points 2 and 3 of this motion were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u95	The votes have been finished here and we continue with agenda item 4, which is non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and D. Paulo Ríos Santôme, on the actions to be carried out in the Union of Galicia for the creation of the German railway body
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u96	There is a self-amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, an amendment of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group and one of the Galician Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u97	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u98	Good afternoon. I would like to begin with an initial clarification of this proposal, which is not a generic initiative on the improvement of the railway services which have been abolished because of the pandemic, nor is it an initiative for the improvement of the railway infrastructures that Galicia needs, which are, as we know, many, because on these matters there have already been unanimous agreements in this Parliament, some of them very recent; and I am referring, for example, to an agreement from the 2nd committee last November and also to an agreement in plenary in the debate on the state of the nation, where there has also been a unanimous agreement on these issues. And it's not a non-legislative proposal about the time changes caused by the new services of AVE, which, as we know, is a very serious matter, which will cause major changes in hours and will harm people who use the railway in the cities of Greece to benefit the users of the train to Madrid. This, of course, is a scandal to us, and the BNG has already put forward initiatives in both the state Parliament and in this Parliament which we will be debating in the near future, where we will have the opportunity to stand on this aggravation, as well as on prices. What we want today is to focus the issue on another area. We want to give a substantive debate on infrastructure and mobility competences and to pay attention to what seems to us to be a great anomaly, which, in addition, does not correspond to what you say is the most decentralized state in Europe. This anomaly is that Galicia has no competence in most of the infrastructures and mobility systems: we have no competence in the large ports called general interest of the State, airports, roads and highways and neither on the railway. This is what we mean when we talk about thinking about Galicia in a small way, thinking about Galicia as a kind of MP who manages roads and public transport in front of the idea of thinking Galicia in great terms, spreading all the potential and exercising all the competences in infrastructure and mobility. And that's exactly what the People's Party doesn't want -- according to you -- not to break Spain and also not to disturb their bosses in Madrid, who have the command at a distance and press it when you have to press the button. We therefore want to give a substantive debate on rail as a mode of mobility for the future, of the twenty-first century, thought, in addition to the interests of the country, both for people and for commodities, and fulfilling three priority functions: a mode of sustainable mobility, fundamental now, in addition to the debate on environmental emergency and climate change; a means of fast and secure connectivity between the main urban areas and the villages of the country; and, thirdly, an element of vertebration and territorial cohesion. In this sense, to give this debate, we have a big problem, which is that neither the Central Government nor the Union - and this is serious, in addition to the case of the Greek Government - they have strategies, no plans, no political priorities in relation to the German railway. And one thing happens, that by the absence and incomparency, in this case, of the Government of the United States, who has to act as the Government of the United States, making strategies and plans is the Atlantic axis. This is so, and I have many documents here that believe it: Documents from the Atlantic Axis: "Report on the dry port of Monforte de Lemos", of the year 2015, "Report on the railway in the province of Lugo", with all the demands concerning the communications of Lugo with the rest of the territory of Galicia and with the rest of the state and with Portugal, "Elements for the drafting of a plan director of the Atlantic corridor", a document that should be made by the Central Government or, in its case, by the Unity of Galicia, and that had to do the Atlantic axis. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows various documents to the members of the House.]] Or what we can consider is a genuine White Paper of all the needs that Galicia currently has in rail matters, which is the Railway Map of Galicia, a map of the actions proposed by the Atlantic axis for the modernisation of Galicia's wide rail network for both people and commodities. This is reality, and who is doing the role the Government should play is an entity like the Atlantic Axis. This is a lot to think about, and they should worry about not exercising their powers. [[Applause]] These reports, these studies, are fundamental for us to have a model of our own German train for the 21st century, which is already being started, with two decades; a model that enables you to overcome that which you defend -- or at least it looks like -- which is the radial model of the AVE, which the one that benefits -- is very clear -- is in the center and Madrid. It's the model of "madricentrism." In front of that, we need a model of our own: a German railway with improvements in infrastructures, some of them that have to be necessarily new construction, and better services as compared to times and frequencies. And that's why we bring here two strategic proposals for mobility for both people and commodities. We're going to focus on people, even though commodities, with the debate in the state, too, with the priorities in the state, would give rise to a monographic debate of great interest. But today, we are going to focus on people's mobility, and we have two concrete proposals: the first is the creation of the proximity railway service and the transfer of this service and these infrastructure to Galicia, and the second is the creation of the German railway body, which we also name, we call it "Galtrén." If they don't like you, we can discuss another, but at least we'll name it. With regard to the first question, the proximity train must be a priority in internal mobility in urban areas for labour, education, services or leisure reasons, which is why most people move all the time during the week, not because of going to Madrid, that too; of course, it is a right that we have to go by train, but it is not the priority need of the day-to-day population in their mobility. This is, in particular, a priority that you have recently shown and made Portugal public when you talked about making a mesh throughout the territory to connect the towns of over 20,000 inhabitants with proximity services. It's urgent to end this anomaly, which is another real anomaly that Galicia is one of the few communities in the Spanish State that has no nearby railway service. I have here the map of the vicinity in the state. They have nearby Asturias, Cantabria, Euskadi, Catalonia, Valencian Community, Murcia, Andalusia and Madrid. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a map to House members.]] Galicia is off the map of proximity and this is not normal. If we compare ourselves to Asturias, which is next door and has much less population density, it has nearby services; it has 500 trains a day, which are four times more than the trains that Galicia has. And we could compare, for example, the railway services between Oviedo and Avilés, which are 32 a week, and those that are, for example, between Ferrol and La Coruña, which have no comparison point, with 4 a day. To this you must add, in addition to higher frequencies, the advantages of prices, which are, of course, much lower in the case of the proximity train, or the single ticket, which means that one can move in Asturias with a single ticket in all means of transport. That's the real intermodality, and don't do two train and bus stations, one side to the other. That's not for intermodality at all. And secondly, there's the proposal of the German railway force, which is neither new nor new, because you've defended it here repeatedly. It has already reached an agreement in September 2009 in this Parliament to create this railway body, announced in November 2009 at a meeting of the so-called councillor, who spoke of the creation of the railway public for the railway management of the vicinity in Galicia or when the board contracted the contract for the creation of the German railway body in 2010, which later remained in nothing, remained on wet paper, because you did not really wager by this system, because you would tell him in Madrid that there was no need to go there, and we have already seen where they were after Madrid. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a document.]] It was, from 2012, with a genuine dismantling and with an annihilation of much of the German internal railway system, that we will then discuss in more detail. And with regard to this proposal, we introduced a self-amendment, because it contained a deadline in the initial wording of 2021 which does not seem to us to be assumed at this time of year. That's why we included a deadline of the first half of the year 2022 to bid this project for the creation of the German railway force. I'm finishing by saying what are the fundamental objectives of this initiative, which is the impulse of a German train for the 21st century to improve infrastructure, services, more often, better times and cheaper prices, so that we have the railway management from Galicia, as provided for in the Statute in its article 27, and so that we actually make a strategic bet by the train so that this is the decade of the German train. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u99	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u100	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. As Mr Bará said at the beginning of his intervention and focusing a little on the subject, it does not correspond to our group's position, of course, by the amendment made by the People's Party. It seems that the People's Party does not want to talk about what the Galego Nationalist Block Group really brings up today, because what we are talking about on this initiative is about the railway fence service, and of course from the German railway public. And the People's Party does what it does in its amendment is to talk about these necessary improvements in the Greek railway services, which we share, as demonstrated when both the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Party brought initiatives, in that sense, to this House, which, of course, were supported by the PSdEG Parliamentary Group. Or also speak of that recovery of railway schedules, of those precarious schedules, which was also transferred from the Ministry to the Galician Union, which was the will of the Central Government, to restore the services suspended during the pandemic in the coming months. We, of course, believe that it is shocking, that it must be re-established, and so we also transfer it to the Ministry itself, and in this House we support the initiatives brought by the other parliamentary groups. I just want to do one point. There was also talk about the arrival of AVE, but it's not incompatible with re-establishing other services that were suspended by the arrival of the pandemic, such as the restoration of one hundred percent of the services Avant de Ourense, Santiago and La Coruña, and the train also half-distance The Coruña-Saintiago-Vigo, which are fully compatible with the arrival of high speed to our autonomous community. By the way, the People's Party continues to question that date of December 21 as it arrived in Galicia or as the first service of the high-speed route between Madrid and Ourense. But by focusing on the subject, we, of course, share the sense in which the initiative of the Nationalist Block Galego is presented. Already the president for that time of the Galician Union, Mr. Touriño, in 2008, was betting and saying that it was the will of the Greek Government to create this German railway. Touriño had already moved that bet from the German Government for having a railway body that managed the railways in Galicia to create a nearby service that he thought was strategic work. It also marked a clear position before the Government of the State and, in particular, before the Minister of Development — it was a ministry led at that time by a socialist — but President Touriño made a bet that we, from Galicia, wanted a transfer in conditions and that we were not worth any kind of transfer. We socialists continue in the same position, we do not change, and we continue to bet on nearby trains or neighborhoods in urban and semi-urban areas, for which it is necessary to achieve the transfer of assets and competences by creating that entity of the Greek railways that Mr Bará was talking about. We then understood, in 2008, that a first step was needed, that it would be the creation of the Transport Consortium which coordinated all collective communications services with the aim of having a German railway body to manage all these infrastructures. It would be a public law entity which would enable the promotion of intermodality and coordination between land transport and rail passenger transport. By the way, this public entity of what we are talking about here today on this initiative to manage the railway is already provided for in the Transport Act. So we've always held the same position in relation to the creation of the German railway. It must be remembered — as Mr Bará has said here — that what changed position was the People's Party itself, because in June 2009, the little bit of reaching the Government of Galicia, the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, said that the Galician Union would create the German railway force to manage the transport of vicinity. He said the Environment, Territory and Infrastructure Adviser — at that time Mr Agustín Hernández — that the first step would be to negotiate with the central government the transfer of the network from the Greek railway and that it did not affect other autonomous communities. But, unfortunately, these are announcements by Mr Agustín Hernández, of the ones we have talked about so much in Commission 2a, that remain in paint; even in last week's commission we were talking about commitments and announcements made by this advisor, such as the burial, in particular, of Beiramar Street, in Vigo, or the arrangement and improvement of the road in Baralla, which unites her with A-6, but they were announcements that never came true. In September 2009 it was unanimously approved in this House the creation of the German railway force also with the aim of promoting a network of proximity transports. It was then requested in 2009 to approve the corresponding budget shares in order to be able to create it in 2010. But we're already finishing this year 2021 and the Galician Union has definitely abandoned this project, as we've seen by the way we proceed to the Galician Union itself. We see it again today with the amendment tabled by the Group of the People's Party, which does not speak of this German railway body, because they have never had the political will to bet on proximity, and now, with their facts, they are proving it. No step has been taken in this direction. We've also seen in this legislation and in other debates that the Galego Nationalist Block has brought an initiative in which, at one of these points, we were talking about the creation of this German railway. It's true that later he did deal with the People's Party, and the People's Party removed that paragraph in which we were talking about the German railway. Today we see, with this typical amendment of the People's Party, that everything is to throw balloons out, kicked up, oblivious to their competences and only putting duties on the central government. But we, again, continue to believe that Galicia must count on one of its own railways, and we see how the will of the People's Party and the Union of Galicia is not to bet on proximity in our autonomous community. We shared — as I said — the feeling of the initiative that today brings the debate to the Nationalist Block Galego, but we tabled an amendment which we understand would be to start a little home by the foundations. We do not create that German railway body; therefore, we understand that the first would be to conquer the transfer of railway services to Galicia, as is the case in Catalonia, because how are we going to transfer these railway powers to an entity that is not created? In this sense, our amendment goes, not because we do not share — I repeat — the need expressed by the Galician Nationalist Block to transfer Galicia the management of the internal railway network, but because we understand that, as we have not created that entity itself, it would first be, and more quickly, to negotiate that transfer of railway services, as if they have in other autonomous communities. On the other hand, as Mr Bará has already referred and they have tabled a self-amendment, the second part of our amendment is in this sense, since we are ending the year 2021, and we were saying to put as horizon the first half of the year 2022 so that this service contract would be bided for the preparation of a study and a preliminary draft of law for the purpose of the creation of the German railway. So we share what the Galego Nationalist Block brings to debate today, and we believe that with our amendment it would be a little bit faster, first, to bring these railway services here and then to create this German railway body. The truth is that, as I said, it is not up to me to speak of the amendment, but it is powerfully calling attention to the amendment of the People's Party because, after years of abandonment of the railway by the popular governments in Madrid - by the support of the People's Party of Galicia and the Council of Galicia -. Of course, there is a pressing need for improvements in the modernisation and reform of the railway in our autonomous community, of course, and we are also demanding them. We've also brought initiatives to this House to improve the German railway, but it's not very logical that you, after undergoing a tremendous abandonment of the German railway, today, which we're trying to focus on and talk about the German railway, talk about improving and recovering services. And in order to finish, logically, we have to keep working in this direction and make the railway as attractive as possible for travellers. Because it is important to remember that one of the pillars of the European Union's transport policy is to strengthen rail as a sustainable means of transport against other more polluting ones. The Ministry of Transport is sensitive to this need and is working in this direction, and of course, it would be a good thing to thank the German Government for working in this direction as well and not only for confronting the Government of the State or for making amends that nothing comes to talk about, of course, speaking of the Nationalist Block of Wales. We thank you for bringing this issue to debate, because we have to say that, of course, we are in the same position as we were when we were in the presidency of the Galician Union. We think it's necessary to create...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u102	...this is an audience of German railways. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me tell you how few times I think I put in such a right amendment because, to avoid interest, you've spent more time talking about the amendment you put in, in this case, the People's Group talking about what the collation was bringing in this sense. [[Laughter]] And he draws attention — I suppose it is because of the ignorance of the province of Lugo — that Mr Bará talks about two reports of the Atlantic axis. I suppose the first one, on the dry port of Monforte, will tell you that the only one who invested invested was one hundred percent to the Galician Union, which is over twenty-two million euros. Whoever stopped the dry port of Monforte for not connecting to 120 is the Government of Spain for a couple of years, I suppose so. [[Laughter]] And in this sense, I have to say that you also talked about a report they made in the province of Lugo on the train. I don't know if the People's Party has the reports or not. The People's Party, when it was in the Government of Spain, what it left was the projects designed to bring high speed to the province of Lugo, and what the Socialist Party did, the Government that supported the Galego Nationalist Block, was cut them off; in this case, the Canaval-The Pearls variants and the Rubian variants. That's right, and you supported that government. But it turns out that we in the People's Party are not going to talk about what interests the Galician Nationalist Block or what interests the Socialist Party, we're going to talk about what interests the Greeks and the Greeks, most of the Greeks and the Greeks. And it turns out that the partners of Greek nationalism in Madrid — that is, socialists — are directly responsible for dismantling public railway services in Galicia. You, Mrs Otero, took advantage of the pandemic to eliminate schedules, frequencies, cropping investments and all contrary to what they promised in that Investment Pact Socialist Party-Nationalist Block Galego. And the solution — ladies and gentlemen, to this, which is happening to Mr Bará, that is, the solution to the nationalists, the Nationalist Block of Wales, is: instead of asking Moncloa to put an end to this dismantling of our railway, they ask the Council of Galicia to do what the Government of Spain does not want to do, in this case. They ask the Union to assume with resources of all the Greeks the works and services it is responsible for paying the Government of Spain with resources of all Spaniards. Mr. Bará, allow me to tell you that this is cookie of pie, in addition to a terrible lack of courage. [[Murmurs.]] But I'm going to make it easier for them, which I've seen they liked, so they talked so much about it: they approve our amendment. You have the courage to ask the Government of Spain for something so simple that we sum up in three points: that it does the necessary works to ensure the competitiveness of the railway network in Galicia, that it restores all existing railway services prior to the health pandemic and that it extends the number of frequencies and services that will allow to meet the demand for mobility from inside Galicia. Our amendment summarizes the most immediate challenges in rail transport. On the one hand, all pre- pandemic train services are recovered. On the other hand, look for the maximum possible adaptation of Renfe schedules to suit the mobility needs of the Greeks, which is also compatible with the arrival of the AVE. Renfe is obliged to try to coordinate connections that allow citizens throughout Galicia to be able to connect with the train schedules of the AVE from Ourense to Madrid, in this case, but also taking into account internal traffic, and to offer a competitive train service with schedules that can meet the demand of most users. Because, Mr Bará, first with the excuse of the pandemic and now with the adequacy of the schedules, there are hundreds and hundreds of neighboring Galicians who, at this time, have lost schedules and frequencies that existed before and now cannot travel between the cities, between Ourense and Santiago or between Vigo and La Coruña. And I no longer tell you in rural areas, where the railway service, in many cases, does not exist or is totally deficient, as is the case with the narrow-track railway in the regions of the Navy, Ortegal and Ferroterra — which knows Mrs Otero well — or which directly suppresses stops, as is the case with Vilagaría, when there are mandates in this House demanding that they be restituted and you do not comply with them. Mr Bará, we are able to share the diagnosis with you. Galicia has a railway network full of deficiencies, with urgent needs to reform and modernize and to replenish and strengthen services. However, from the majority group in this House, from the People's Group, we can only disagree in the proposed solution. According to the Galego Nationalist Block, to solve the problem that, in this case, is a state responsibility, such as having an obsolete, inefficient and unable to respond to Galicia's needs, what we have to do is assume the problem from Galicia. The creation of the German railway body is now assuming a disastrous railway network and an incomplete set of services. Therefore, the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block is that Galicia solve the state problem and also do it with money from all the Greeks, when anyone has to do it is the Government of Spain with money from all the Spaniards. However, for us, for the Government of Galicia and for the majority group of this House, the path is another. It is the obligation of the Government of Spain to solve the problems of the German railway network, restore services and strengthen them according to the needs of the Greeks. Our duty as public representatives of the Greeks is not to release the Moncloa from that responsibility, but to ask the Moncloa to assume her powers as soon as possible. The Galician Nationalist Block is not moving forward. You guys don't move, man! That's why nationalism is not moving forward! They continue to insist on the same and without keeping in mind fundamental aspects such as that the State railway network is connected with other sections of neighbouring communities, supporting interregional services, which is why it is of State competence. You also forget, Mr Bará, that when one administration transfers one competition to another, as in this case it may be from railway services, the applicant always requires the transfer of the infrastructure in optimal condition, as well as the budget allocation sufficient for the operation of the service, which includes the transfer of the rolling stock and the resources for the maintenance of that material and the infrastructure. Nor has the Galego Nationalist Block just understood that everyone, absolutely all — I repeat — the Galician railway services are deficient and that in order to keep them paid with public service obligations, with obligations of all Spaniards, what you want to pay with obligations of all Greeks. They are asking us implicitly to assume the deficit that is supposed to maintain those services and to pay for it, in this case, by the Greeks. But, Your Honor, if I may, you have just made explicit the certificate of death of the investment pact between the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, that farce from what will happen to history the picture between the leader of your party, Mrs. Anne Pontón, and the defensive spokesman of the Socialists, Adriana Lastra; a pact in which the Nationalist Block of Galicia made Peter Sánchez quarrel for everything in exchange for nothing—we know it well—. For which, that was a farce. They promised to save Alcoa and a statute for electrointensive companies. You ask your colleagues at the Coruña and ask their colleagues at the Marine de Lugo what the situation is with those companies you wanted to save in exchange for Sánchez's investment. They promised to transfer AP-9. Do you remember that? And last week we learned that Moncloa will not meet the demand of the Union nor the unanimous request of all the parties of this Parliament. When the time comes for the truth, you're not here. We have seen an inexplicable change of opinion within the Socialist Government, which is against the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia which is being dealt with at the Congress of Deputies, and, in addition, by taking the hair of the Greeks, with an excuse which is absurd. The AP-9 bonuses can't be an obstacle to moving forward in the transfer of the highway to our community. You know, and your group too, that it's perfectly possible to transfer the infrastructure with a financing agreement that includes government-compromising bonuses; but the reality is that they had no desire or interest in meeting the pact because you in the signing of the pacts are a danger.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u105	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u106	Unless they have a super MP who can travel — with all due respect — on skateboard for all the representation that you have from Pedrafita there. He's actually very hardworking. [[Laughter]] He walks a lot across the province and walks a lot in Galicia, but I say: what does the representative who has the Galician Nationalist Block in Madrid see? [[Murmurs.]] Because, yes, we're going to save Alcoa, ah!, but in the assumptions we're going to vote against. No, we're going to abstain to save Alcoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u108	We're going to abstain. Why didn't you vote against it? Why don't you save Alcoa or the German railway?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u109	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u110	...the conditioner to break all pacts that have three of the four deputies and the municipalities of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u111	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u112	...so that you're starting to be a little crazier?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u113	He's here for today, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u114	It's just, if not, you in Galicia don't believe them anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u115	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u116	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u117	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Murmurs.]] Calm down! A little quiet! [[Murmurs.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u118	"Don't get angry, Balsairo, have fun!" This phrase told her a great deal of the Welsh emigration in Bos Aires, Paco Lores, the Quadrade Arturo, which was so very vehemently and was very tense and nervous: "Don't get angry, Arturo, "Balseiro -, have fun!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Laughter]] So much so that he "nodded" that he even lost his papers on the way. [[Applause]] What he said about Néstor Rego's patent reminded me of Mr. Tellado's historic premonition — that he is not here today — reminded me of Mr. Tellado's ineffable premonition — that he is not now at the plenary session — when he said that the BNGs had to walk in a stage. Well, the BNG people are now on a bus, and soon we're going to need a train to move around the country, because at this rate of growth we're not going to fit in on a bus. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] You have a bad memory, and you have a bad conscience. They have the bad conscience of the converts and the traitors. That's what happens to you; and they're bad manipulators, besides, very bad manipulators, because I have to remind you -- and make some history -- that the ultimate responsibility for the rail abandonment and rail dismantling of Galicia is the People's Party, Mr. Rajoy and Mrs. Ana Pastor. It's yours! [[Applause]] You're talking about the dry port of Monforte as if they were going through here now, as if they had nothing to do with it. Were you not ruling for six years in the Union and the Central Government? So what? What's the balance? How's the dry port of Monforte? Dry! It's a dry port, in dry saying, it has no connection, it has no trains, it has no merchandise, it has nothing. That's a responsibility of the People's Party, basically. Don't come here to find excuses and blame others because you're the main ones responsible. Look at what you said in 2010: "The PP calls on the State to give a boost to the nearby Galicians. The Union reiterates its interest in having a proximity train." This is the year 2010. "The Union expects the proximity train to reach Galicia before the end of the legislate." [[Mr. Bará Torres reads a document to the members of the House.]] This is from 2012. Who were these people saying this? Were they yours or what happened? They're converts and they have a bad conscience about it, because they've given up defending the interests of the country and the German train, and so they've been to us all these years. [[Applause]] But not only this, they gave up defending those interests, but what they approved in 2013 was something they called "The Plan of Rationalization of Rail Transport." Do you know what this rationalization plan was directed by Ana Pastor? At the suppression of 1,800 stops and 20 stations, and 40 stations were left with only one train a day. That's the merit of the People's Party. And do you know what you said then in this Parliament by the mouth of the Transport Spokesman -- I told you other times, but you have to repeat it to them again and again so that they may be burned there -- Mr. Román Rodríguez, when this real escabachina and this train is done? [[Applause]] Do you know what you said in this Parliament? I want to remind him because they have a bad memory: "The cuts have all the logic for budgetary reasons, for reasons of social demand and for reasons of service interests." [[Mr. Bará Torres reads another document to the members of the House.]] You said this to justify not a temporary deletion of services, as you are doing now, that we hope they will recover, but to eliminate hundreds of services. That's the merit of the People's Party. And so is the situation of the middle villages of the country: the situation of Ribadavia, Monforte, Carballiño, Lugo, the railway isolation of Lugo, or Feb. You have a lot of responsibility in this, which is mainly the responsibility of the People's Party governments. And you gave it to me. The reality is that Lugo has fewer railway services today than Sarria. That's the reality. And, of course, we're going to report where we need it; we're reporting it on the streets, we're going to report it in this Parliament and also in Congress. And the reality is that in his day you defended the idea of creating the German railway force and then they gave up because they were given orders in Madrid, as always happens, and sent them to shut up, enchant, obey and say that the railway body does not. Don't come here to manipulate by saying that we ask for the transfer without the corresponding funding, because this is the "abc" of the transfer negotiation; the services are transferred, as has been done with other communities, and with the corresponding funding, of course, because we are not fools, and you're not supposed to. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And finally, I mean one thing. We have no problem accepting those proposals — I say, many of them are repetitive and that we have already approved here many times — as it adds to our proposal. They accept that we have a nearby railway service and they accept that we study it, because we don't even ask for a study to be done to draft a bill, as you already tried to do in 2009-2010 and they didn't. They approve these two proposals and we have no problem - I would miss it more! - to accept the amendments as complementary to our initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u119	What about the PSOE? Do you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u120	That of the PSOE, as we shall vote tomorrow and there are many similarities, we will have time to talk about that issue. We'll figure it out, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u121	All right. Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the control of the residences of the elderly of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u122	No amendments were made to this non-law proposal. Mr. Iago Tabares has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u123	Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. President. I think we'll all agree that neither old age nor Alzheimer's deprive people of their dignity, and that's what this initiative is about. From the Galician Nationalist Block, what we want is for measures to be taken from this House to ensure compliance with the law and contracts, and respect for the fundamental rights of people. This initiative aims to put people's lives, dignity and rights above the commercial interests and the greed of some, something that is not currently being done by the Galician Union because it is allowing older people's lives to be seen more as a business than a public service. Today there is a total climate of impunity and tolerance in the face of non-compliances - as serious as they may be - some companies that manage senior residences. For years now, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we have been condemning the lack of resources in the inspection of social services of the Galician Union. Only 11 inspectors and inspectors to be able to control residences of older, disabled, minors and families; 11 persons to control approximately one thousand eight hundred centres that exist throughout the country, which prevents effective control of residential centres, in this case of older ones. This has been in demand for the Nationalist Block Galego for a long time and, in particular, I think in this legislation, companion Olalla Rodil. In 2017 it was no longer the Galego Nationalist Block, but the Board of Auditors, who, through a review report, went to the Galician Board to tell him that the Inspection Service, the 11 inspectors that existed were not enough to control all senior residences; that, as the residences and public or private squares were growing, he also had to grow that service, something that didn't happen, that he still had the same structure and that he still had the same staff. This 2017 Board of Auditors report has been repeated just two months ago in 2021, in which the Board of Auditors itself says that it remains without staff to be able to control what is happening in senior homes. Since then, the media of the Union, consciously, with full awareness of the Galician Union, are insufficient to control what is happening in the homes of older people. This situation of shortage of means by the Galician Administration is not compensated by other institutions. For example, if you would like to consult, a page — I think — 406 of the memoir of the Prosecutor's Office, the Provincial Office of Lugo is saying that it lacks sufficient means to carry out a regular inspection of what is happening in the homes of older people. Therefore, neither the Galician Union nor the State, through the Prosecutor's Office, can know, can prevent abuses that may occur in the homes of older persons. There is also no record, according to the Board of Auditors, in both 2017 and 2021, nothing, absolutely nothing to control the performance of contracts. With these residences, with these companies, these companies are paying millions of euros annually and it is not known, there is nothing in the structure of the Galician Union to control whether they are fulfilling. [[Applause]] You don't know if you're counting on the minimum staff hired. We're talking about administrative contracts, public resources. It is not known whether they have the minimum staff engaged, whether they provide the services offered: physiotherapy and occupational therapy or even medical services. It is not known — or yes — whether you are being provided with food contracted under the conditions and whether you are paying attention to what the Union pays with public resources to these companies. That is, there are no means to control the legality of behaviour in the centers, which at best are inspected once every three years, and also not to demand the fulfilment of contracts by private companies, foundations charge millions of euros each year. I mean, there's a total and absolute context of absolute impunity, because both we and the Board of Auditors and companies know there's no means to control it. But what is more serious, in this climate of lack of control, in this climate of impunity, is that, when there are any of these inspections and irregularities are detected, what happens? Absolutely nothing, neither when legal infringements are found nor when contractual infringements are found for those who are receiving income, nor when fundamental rights are being violated by the people who reside. It doesn't happen at all, it doesn't control them, and when they're caught, it doesn't punish them either. [[Applause]] And it's not said by the Galician Nationalist Block, it's also said by the Board of Auditors. The Board of Auditors warns that, when irregularities were detected and they were not corrected in time, no sanctioning proceedings were initiated. When there was a failure to comply with personnel ratios, personal categories or a lack of rigour in the registers, and there was no record of the passing of a person — i.e. he kept billing as if he were providing the service — nothing happened at all. This is 2017. And what happened later? Because they draw their own conclusions: 446 complaints and claims in 2019 resulted in 23 sanctioning cases, 446 versus 23; 379 complaints gave rise in 2018 to 9 sanctioning cases; 16 in 2017, as a result of 321 complaints and claims. We're talking about the initiation of sanctioning procedures, not sanctions. Because many of these sanctioning procedures later become archived, waiting for their expiry in a drawer. Illustrative of the whole above was the event in September 2019, where an Act of the Inspection Service reflects more residents than authorized squares, less personal direct attention than the legally enforceable, of course as well as the contractually enforceable. General service staff performing direct care functions, which means more or less that an administrator or a cook was computing as health care personnel or as general care personnel. Six residents were applying mechanical restraint measures without medical authorization or consent of the patient or his representative. This is contained in an act of one of the 11 Inspectors of the Galician Union. Six residents were applying mechanical tender without medical authorization or consent. Surely this, as the Board of Auditors implies, has to do with the absence of staff. If we have no staff, if we don't have those ratios of direct attention personnel that the law requires us, it's much more comfortable — I say — to have tied up that person, to have held them, or to limit their ability to move them to comply, than to pay those direct care personnel. These measures of mechanical subjection, which, in spite of the name, consist simply of attributing or restricting the mobility of a person, in the opinion of the Spanish Society of Hieriatrics and Xerontology, paying attention to the fundamental rights of a person, because they deprive people of freedom, reach people's dignity and self-esteem. That, as we said at the beginning, does not disappear into a person by his age, by his age, or by his age, nor yet because he is ill of Alzheimer's, he still has the same dignity, and we must have the same self-esteem and consideration with him, while paying attention to his fundamental rights, that they achieve his dignity and pose risks to his physical and psychic integrity. [[Applause]] Therefore, we understand that all these objective data that this person was attached to and the consequences of such action must be communicated immediately to the Prosecutor's Office or for its assessment and to instruct whether or not to initiate criminal proceedings or for the disability of the person. What you can't do is silence those kinds of behaviors and don't do anything. In any case, the Galician Union which should start is a sanctioning procedure. By the way, do you imagine you did Galician Union? Absolutely nothing. It has not notified the Prosecutor's Office or imposed penalties for contractual defaults — they are managing public resources millionaires — or the initiation of a sanctioning proceeding. Better said, the sanctioning procedure for this September 2019 inspection record began a year later. And what did he do during that year that it took him to initiate a sanctioning procedure? To withdraw the invitation to renew that contract, and, of course, granted new millionaire contracts to that same company that was failing to comply with those basic measures for the protection of fundamental rights. And another question: what would happen if the Galician Board had done what it should have done? That is to say, immediately initiate a sanctioning procedure, immediately, so soon it had knowledge of this inspection service act, which, by the way, has a presumption of truth, that is, what is said there should be considered true. Well, probably that company that was assisted couldn't legally sue him, because he'd be in charge of being disabled to hire the Administration. But the Galician Union, instead of doing so, had heard deaf ears, had given it millionaire contracts to that same society, and here peace and then glory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u125	In short, Mr President, what we are asking is that they put the welfare of older people ahead of the profits and business of businesses, who regard the attention of older people as a fundamental right, as a public service to be provided and not as a business for businesses or societies more or less related. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u126	Thank you, Mr. Iago Tabares. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u127	Thank you, President. In December 2020, exactly one year ago, we learned this information: The Prosecutor's Office points out that the Board has not conducted inspections in La Esperanza since 2015, in the residence most cases in my province, Ourense. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] This case, of course, is not isolated, but quite the opposite: it has highlighted a systematic dynamics of the German Government, of the People's Party in Galicia. Inevitably, in view of this kind of information, we will be led by the report of the Board of Auditors and we are starting to put together cables. The Social Policy Council itself went off badly. And it went wrong to stop because you have an obligation to supervise residences to ensure that all regulations are scrupulously complied with for the benefit of older people. And the crusader reality showed us, through the so-called report of the supervisory body, that since the Government of Alberto Núñez, since he came into power, the number of inspections has narrowly decreased by 100% of the total expected residences for the 2010 Inspection Plan to 39% in 2016, a fall that is totally exaggerated. But if we add to all of this that we are from the autonomous communities that have the most percentage of private squares — and Ourense significantly — the fact of decreasing inspections takes a clear dimension of danger to the well-being of older people, because it gives rise to a vacuum in which some interests can dominate above compliance with their own regulations or even the very care of older people. And why have there been few inspections over the last few years? Yes, indeed, because as the number of residential squares increased, the number of inspections was lower because there are no inspection technicians, because we are the second autonomous community that we have less inspection technicians. And in addition, it was published so; here is the painting and here is Galicia. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a document.]] We are the second autonomous community in the whole country that we have less inspection technicians. In addition, we must bear in mind that we are an autonomous community that we have significant aging and that we should have a positive discrimination in resources in this regard. And all of this becomes a molotov cocktail, it's obvious. When in Galicia the People's Party, with an absolute fourth and more than twelve years of management and government, configures the following formula: Galician residences equal to the highest percentage of private squares, less inspection, as well as the well-being of the elderly in danger. And for all that, in the part of the explanatory statement of this initiative is the point of the matter, where it says, textually, "The aforementioned law expressly establishes the obligation of the Galician Board to transfer to the competent authority the offences of which it may be aware in the exercise of its function as an inspector, in respect of which the content of the acts raised by the inspectors of the Autonomous Administration shall be of evidentiary value." For all this, it is urgent, as we repeatedly request from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that human resources and inspection already be significantly increased. Because a week ago, in addition, the Association of Residential Workers in Galicia received — they could surely see it in the media — a recognition of the state-of-the-art scope of a media. They, the workers, fought for many years, long before the pandemic, by the way, so that this government, which enjoys its fourth most absolute, opened its eyes and moved the walls of residential care centers, to see the repeated non-compliances of the regulations, systematically in some cases. They warned that the professional ratios, as well as the Board of Auditors, for each user had been failing for a long time; as well as the lack of staff, which had an impact on the residents' own care, that on many occasions, as I have already said many times, were raised at 6 a.m. or laid down at 7 p.m. for lack of relief and human resources, due to lack of relief from companions, but also other issues that do not have to be written in the regulations at times but that compromise their own professional ethics, such as, for example, they commented, denounced their own residents in a residence in particular, but happened in many other places, responsible for cleaning that read what is called the notebook of notes, where the collections are put, for example, for cleaning, had the following order in writing: scraping the ground, and in particular the places where they had to scrape the ground. And because, in addition, they also specified a general cleaning of doors, windows, etc., they wondered why this unusual note and recommendation — order, better said — and really after a few hours they noticed, because the reason was a visit by the delegate of DomusVi, the current one, what happened to Josefina Fernández, and the same with his brother and other responsible ones — and, of course, pioneers also on receiving the vaccine, as you know. These kinds of issues are serious, but when we go through one step further, the red line, when the health of older people is compromised to the cause of a poor diet, a diet that is not prepared or planned for these people, which, in addition, is a residence that costs more than 2,000 euros a month in many cases, is extremely serious, and we have to pay attention to this issue, in addition to measures, in which, by the way, they also appoint those of subjection, which are very serious and, by the way, many, as they see, without medical prescription. There are cases of this style, which have to start the commitment of all and all, the commitment above all of this Greek Government to establish comprehensive control mechanisms to allow proper supervision of the care that our society is offering to older people. Because thanks to the older people, thanks to them, we've reached here today. The older people today are the ones who worked from children to bring money to their parents and then to take money to their children, and they are the people who today also help the reconciliation, by taking care of their grandchildren and grandchildren, as we have fortunately many and many, to do our work and be able to reconcile working and family life. We cannot allow their well-being or even their own physical or mental health to be compromised by the lack of resources and supervision of the Administration, because it is our obligation. The perception of the passing of time for older people changes, it's faster, and every year counts. Speaking to a partner a few days ago, about 80 years ago, he told me that within three or four years, because he didn't know how he would be healthy and what his future would be, if he were in full faculty, for example, cognitive or physical. So every year that we don't solve the question is a lost year; the minutes pass at the same speed, but the perception that we have of the passage of time is different according to the age we are. We will, of course, support this initiative, because control and supervision must be shielded to optimize care and prevent the violation of the rights of older people, because it is fair. But even more so when we're talking about possible violations of rights or even ill-treatment, as we could see in many situations, which logically is a very sensitive issue that has to affect all of us, regardless of the political color. We have to shield the older people in this sense, because many of those who reside in centers have limited their own cognitive capabilities. And, therefore, the whole of society, and in particular the administration, has the moral duty and responsibility and the obligation to find the formula to protect them, because today they are but tomorrow we will all be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u128	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Party has the floor Mr. Peace Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u129	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. So a new edition of a classic of the Galego Nationalist Block: the demonization of companies and foundations that manage public residences, always and when the conception of these residences, of course, does not correspond to administrations governed by the BNG and the PSOE. I see myself again in the obligation to criticize the use of the opposition of its parliamentary status, using the prerogative of parliamentary immunity to defame public servants. It's a regrettable attitude when the goal is to attack public office, but I think it's intolerable when it's directed against public officials, whose professionalism and good name it questions itself with the sole aim of exhausting the Government. And yes, I agree with Mrs. Rodil: it's a barbarity. It's legitimate to question whether inspection services are sufficient, because the entire public service is improved, it's an opinable question, which, by the way, I want to facilitate some data. There are currently 29 professionals in the Inspection Service, plus the interim support staff for the processing of sanctions files, which have been hired over the past few years; this is why you have to add a new edition of the training course held at the EGAP to create a contract scholarship to cover vacancies, plus the social services inspection course carried out by the EGAP to update inspectors' knowledge. But look, in spite of these actions, we agreed on the need to strengthen the Inspection Service, and that is why we have reached agreements in that sense. Tell me from the Reactivation Commission: the Commission believes that the Union should step up inspections of residential centres to ensure the quality of the services it provides to users. Or in the last debate of the state of Autonomy, where we agreed to strengthen the inspection teams dependent on the Social Policy Council to increase the supervision of older centres. That is why we could fully support that third point of his initiative. But in the same way, I can say that it is also legitimate to request reports from the Legal Counsel, although it is obvious that he has previously monitored all the adjudication processes of the Galician Council. But the opposition isn't enough for all these criticisms, legitimate ones, and it has to take one more step. Look, we can remember the many occasions on which the left of Galicia made here at parliamentary headquarters grave accusations against public workers. Yes, they won't remember a single apology or a single correction when these charges are proved false. Here we remember how public officials accused themselves of falsifying documents in a work on Nature Network, of course, not a word. We also recall how in this chamber some officials from the Board, specifically from Ourense, were accused of having a mafia-like attitude, which is actually a mafia, for harassing a joint tenant, a procedure that was also filed; with no excuse on the part of anyone. We even got to the point where people, here, public officials, were accused of murdering patients who didn't receive certain hepatitis C treatments, if they were also filed, so, of course, those people are still waiting for excuses. And once again you take advantage of your condition as a fugitive to carry out, cowardly, false accusations, in this two case. The first, by charging a residence for the commission of a crime; and the second, by accusing another official, of concealing that offence. It's not the first time. Comparatives who came to this chamber on his proposal accused the Chief of the Inspection Service that he was giving roofs to residences warning previously of inspection dates. I've asked him — someone who still ratifies him and asserts with his head — we've been asking you for months to get rid of these very serious and false accusations. Today we have the answer to our proposals: they insist, they admit and still presume to accuse people without any proof — I repeat — not to do the job right or wrong, not to have or have no more or less means to do their work; you accuse them of delinquenting, and in addition, Mr Rivas says that it is common practice. To be proud, they have to be very proud. Of course, this is done in your capacity as Members, because this, as citizens in the street, is not dare to do so. It's cowardice, it's absolute cowardice. [[Applause]] I have to say it. Sorry, sorry. Look, the Popular Parliamentary Group has the absolute conviction that the officials of the Galician Joint Inspection Service do their work with absolute honesty. Every irregularity detected or reported is investigated, processed and, where appropriate, sanctioned, because of course, Mr Tabares says that there are residences that are visited once every three years, and another four or five in a year if there are complaints; of course, that doesn't matter. And, in fact, of each inspection, if there are any indications of crime, and only if there are any indications of crime, is transferred to the Prosecutor's Office, to the courthouse or to the competent authority, because sometimes we find ourselves in default of a social nature but also health, work or criminal nature. You say the board covers this. I'm going to give you an example: Burón residences; it's last year, we're not going to prehistory. The Board states that, following the transfer of all resident persons, Burón I and II live in the Fosgrada, it shall inform the Prosecutor's Office of the facts found in these centres by the inspection of social services. Irregularities are detected, caution is issued, a transfer is made to the Prosecutor's Office and a motion for a penalty is made — as long as you consider it to be minimal — of EUR 195, which is suspended because the file is pending judicial settlement. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what we can agree with is that the application of tendering measures is in any case a bad precaution, a bad precaution with which the Board wants to end, if it is possible to radically minimize in the new model of residences. But it's the circumstances that determine whether an administrative sanction or a criminal sanction deserves. This is because administrative actions are clearly defined in the Galician Social Services Act and, among them, this one we are talking about, the subjection and deprivation of movement of older people. It's there, by the way, because I have to remember that Galician Social Services Act 13/2008 is a law that was driven and approved when you were in the Government, that we didn't criticize it because we assumed it and kept it that way. But, man, you say that there is no possibility of administrative punishment when you included that administrative sanction in a legal text is at least curious. So, Your Honor, what you have to be clear is that, indeed, depending on the type of infringement or the type of irregularity that it detects, one is transferred to one or another authority, not by the whim of the Galician Union nor, as you will understand, by the whim of the Galician Nationalist Block, but by the loyal knowledge and understanding of the officials of the Galician Union. Because I think you should be aware of the seriousness of the accusations you make here, so -- if you allow me -- very light. It is very hard to say here that you have checked a record, that in that record you have the conviction that there is a crime and that an official does not transfer it, because it is who has an obligation to do so. Article 408 of the Criminal Code: "The authority or official who, failing the obligation of his office, has intentionally ceased to promote the prosecution of the crimes of those who have the news or the errors responsible shall incur the penalty of special disability for employment and office." That's what you're saying. I think it's a very serious fact. But I must remind you, Your Honor, that in any case, in the same way that officials have an obligation to denounce those crimes of those who have knowledge, the same obligation we have citizens with regard to public offences, as this is the case, because this would be a public offence whenever it is committed with particularly vulnerable persons, and therefore, pursuing crimes of their own accord. You registered this initiative in March. Did you bring these facts to the prosecutor's office? Because you have stated here that you are aware of the existence of a crime, not — rectification — of two offences: one, residence, and another, of the Inspection Service. I ask you — and I hope you will answer in your closing — that since March you have transferred these facts to the Prosecutor's Office, what is your obligation? Because, Your Honor, if they did, your initiative is absolutely unnecessary, because the Prosecutor's Office would already have known these facts; and, if they did not, Your Honor, we are in the presence of an intolerable exercise of cynicism. I -- and I'm done now -- the only thing I ask you to do is to be respectful of the public workers, with all of them, that if you fill them up here to defend the public workers and then, with absolute impunity, they are determined to take their good name, their good doing on the ground, without having even heard an apology or a correction, not with the Government, not with this party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u130	You have to finish, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u131	...not with this parliamentary group, but with the officials you've been slandering for a long time. And I hope you're going up here now and tell us you've transferred these facts to the prosecutor's office, because, Mr. Tabares, otherwise, the only one who's not doing his legal duty, and probably committing a cover-up crime, is you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u132	Thank you, Mr. Pazos Couñago. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's go in order. First, about the situation of the real estate harassment I was talking about, that was a prosecution's complaint. I think the Attorney General of Ourense was disabled by that. Everything else... [[Applause]] Well, second, they follow their strategy, very gross, about the matter we're talking about, about criminalizing officials. First, in no case did I speak of the function of the inspectors. Inspectors are limited to finding the few good professionals and very honest ones that they are, a reality. All we said here was either from the Board of Auditors or from inspection records consulted. By the way, consult those inspection records that are in the administrative records that took us to work. One point: I don't know if you realize that I didn't ever say the name of the company, the name of the foundation. Why? First of all, when we asked for the documentation, we were denied; we resorted to the services of the House and finally we were able to consult it on March 1, under strict security measures, with a person in front of us for photographing, and prior to signing a confidentiality document. That's why I'm not here putting the name, even though I'm told that there are those who know it, of no society, no foundation, that could fail. But, look, I read what comes in a Galician board resolution, by the way, saying that you're inspecting a center in 2017, none; in 2018, none; in 2019, one. [[Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro shows a document.]] And another: 2017, una; 2018, none; 2019, none. And the main centers: 2017, none — I'm talking to someone else — 2018, one; 2019, none. These are the inspections. But this same resolution says: "This way, on 1 March, the Members of the BNG..."—the name, well, Olalla and I—...have access to the said documentation, ensuring the security and confidentiality of information." So now, if we're being denied the power to disclose information, we have to be with absolute care, and now we have to say that if we don't denounce the Prosecutor's Office, that... no, no, no, the records have you and not the officials... you're criminalizing... apart from having no idea what the function of the Inspection Service is, of the 11 greatest professionals who leave their lives, they have neither the work nor the competence to initiate sanctioning procedure. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It's not up to them to initiate the sanctioning procedure, they don't have the competence to file...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u134	Quiet. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Pazos, you've already taken your turn. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u135	I hope that, after that right lesson, you'll address a complaint against the counsellor, because the advisor is the one who has the competence to pass this on to the prosecutor's office. You don't listen to officials, you don't get behind the officials for this grave, grave situation of non-compliance. [[Applause]] Because they're violating people's rights, they're infringing or allowing the violation of people's fundamental rights, which they don't lose because they're bigger or because they have alzeimer. [[Applause]] Don't lose, they're still holders of that right that you cover and silence. And they don't hide in the staff. [[Applause]] They're paying millions of euros of public resources to those who know they're failing. And it's in inspection records that a particular center kept the expired foods, it wasn't facilitated by the prescribed food, it didn't have direct attention in the required number. That's what they were tolerating and they have knowledge through inspection records. And, on the other hand, look, we didn't argue that the adjudication process was correct. We don't discuss the reports of the Juridical Counsel prior to adjudication. What we have discussed is that, if the proper steps are taken, that is to say, the infringements which were being committed — the alleged infringements or the alleged offences — if they come to know the Prosecutor's office, if a sanctioning procedure is in place, it may result in the application, of course, of the Contracts Act at that time, and then, within the grounds of the prohibition of hiring such a company — which I will not mention and I will not say the name, but it may be that it was incurable to engage in failure to have breached the essential clauses in the contract. Therefore, if this process were to be followed, if the infringement was detected, an administrative sanctioning procedure would be initiated and even within the legally established deadlines to impose the penalty, that company might not have been sued by that millionaire contract. But, in any case, after that defense, I would say, even inappropriate of you, what we're asking is that they take it seriously. There are records of the Inspection Service. These acts contain facts — the Inspection Service is presumed to be true — supposedly delicious. The only thing we're asking the Galician Board — not you — is that these inspection papers, those very large professional records, few in number, are placed in the knowledge of the Prosecutor's Office; it's the only thing we're asking them. We can't do it. I, if I don't — believe me — would do it tomorrow. No, to allow me to join Galicia... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u136	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u137	...and I swear to God that tomorrow they have the complaint.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u138	Thank you, Mr. Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u139	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u140	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u141	Now there's a change in the agenda, which has already been reported. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Da Paloma Castro Rey, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to protect the indigenous forest
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u142	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u143	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. For an important part of the problems that accumulate to humanity today — which are not few or paint too well — are derived from the fact that we are part of an almost completely denaturalized civilization that lives in its majority in urban spaces deprived of any contact with nature; a nature that is alien to us, when not hostile, even though we are part of it, because we are nature as much as we are culture. More specifically, naturalist Joaquín Araújo says — a very graphic expression — "that we are a forest that has walked." A forest that has walked means that the apes we descended from and with which we are closely related have developed much of their skills and abilities raised in the trees that served them as shelter against predators, in close relation to those forests in which they lived. But it also refers to the importance of forests as the livelihood of which we are part, because without forests there would be no life. That's why it's hard to overstate the importance, the enormous importance that forests have for our survival in a world of accelerated ecological collapse. In close connection with all of the above, one of the agreements adopted at the recent COP26 — in fact, the first major agreement reached at that conference — was to curb deforestation, at least to try to curb the deforestation of the planet, on the basis of the consensus that forests are the most important, cheap and effective instrument that humanity has to fight against the climate crisis, which represents the greatest ecological threat, but also existential, economic and social threats that humanity has never faced, questioning and questioning all and every aspect of our lives, as well as our civilization as a whole. Because forests are part of or form one of the sinks, the largest carbon sinks on the planet. And on the other hand, the destruction of forests produced by climate change implies the release into the atmosphere of an ingenious amount of CO2, not to mention the CO2 that emits the destruction of forests directly caused by human activity. There will be those who say what problem we have in Galicia with the forests, if trees are left, there are many trees, we produce half the wood that is cut down in Spain. But for ecological purposes, we have to distinguish clearly, because there is a huge, abysmal difference between the concept of forest and the concept of forest planting. As the Ministry for Ecological Transition points out in its report Forests and biodiversity in the face of climate change, monospecific forest masses of alloctone species, such as eucalyptus, increase forest vulnerability in the face of global warming, while the most biodiversity-based structures of native species are shown to be much more resilient. Ecosystem services provided by forests are enormous and, compared to any other ecosystem. In addition to absorbing CO2, they fix and stabilize the ground, they are the largest terrestrial refuge in biodiversity because they host and feed all kinds of living organisms — such as animals, plants and fungi of all kinds — through ecosystems that generate around them, contribute to creating a climate more conducive to life and humanity by their ability to attract rain, and a very long, very long -- I would say, etc. We must also highlight the landscape benefits of the native forest, which adorn the landscape, especially by the variety of colors that occur in autumn and, to a lesser extent, in spring, with a landscape quality that obviously do not have eucalyptus plantations. Then there are social benefits too, because forests allow us to come into contact with a natural environment or simply disconnect from the stress of our everyday lives. It plays here, here comes the concept of biophila, which implies that, as animals that evolve our genetic baggage in close contact with nature, we need that contact -- although we don't realize it -- because that contact improves our physical and soul well-being, and its absence makes us worse. One of the countries with the largest forest surface and forest tradition and culture in the world as Japan officially recognizes and promotes in recent decades a practice called shinrin yoku, which means "absorbing the atmosphere of the forest"—literally—, moving to our country in the concept of "forest washrooms," a practice supported by studies that demonstrate that these forest baths have distinctly positive physical and psychological effects. For all of the above, and much more, the native forest, as a more biodiverse terrestrial ecosystem, which provides a greater amount of ecosystem services, quantity and variety, should be weighed on the public policies of a civilized country in the 21st century, in line with the constitutional right to a suitable environment for human development, because there can be no suitable environment if there is no forest, to the point that it would not be exaggerated to speak as a correlation of that right to the environment of a hypothetical right to forest, from which much of the European citizenship — which lives on the coast and particularly in large urban areas — is being deprived of the difficulty of finding a forest in a minimally suitable conservation state in its immediate surroundings, which goes against not only the Constitution but also the European Green Pact, of the European Forest Strategy for the year 2030, adopted in July 2030. Because Galicia, despite having a large forest surface, is losing its forests in a much accelerated way in much of its territory; a fact that does not adequately reflect the ups and downs — much more partial — official statistics, but perfectly visible to anyone who goes around so many areas on the roadside the remains of the last strawberries converted into logs of cut trunks parallel to the growth of uncontrolled eucalyptus nitens plantations, which proliferate more and more towards inside Galicia. Because the nitens, as we know, breaks the geographic barrier that the eucalyptus globulus had and therefore allows colonization of the rest of Galician territory that was not yet colonized by the eucalyptus. Little remains of that enticing universe that Wenceslao Fernández Flórez told, that lively forest, where animals, men, legends coexisted, and, in short, an ancestral culture rooted in the land that was the traditional culture of Galicia. Sadly, those who take a turn around Cecebre can verify that the animated forest no longer exists in reality, out of some libraries in the form of novel—new it, by the way, highly recommended. But today the forest sector accounts for more than 3% of Galicia's GDP and one of the main economic activities, which takes up tens of thousands of people in an unemployment-stricken country; that's a reality. By itself Galicia is the ninth European forest power, it produces half of the wood that is cut down in Spain. Those magnitudes have come to an end despite the public's desire that one third of the Galician mountain is unproductive, much higher than other places with forest tradition, which gives an idea of the great or enormous unsavory potential. And the 1992 Forest Plan intended to invest in the sector 3% of the autonomous budget and in practice that budget fell in half, spending more on extinguishing fires than rationalizing the mountain, which would involve diversifying forest species and also the uses of the mountain, distinguishing between economic, social and environmental, and, by course, diversifying economics as well. In summary, the only forest policy that the successive popular governments practiced was that of "you going to plant", basically eucalyptus, so that the goal of the 1992 Plan for 2032, 245,000 hectares of eucalyptus, is estimated more than doubled today, not by official statistics but by the most exact ones that are not so official, with a minimum of 500,000 hectares. But the rule of law, like democracy itself, is a good measure to practice balance. They are balanced both the rule of law and democracy: to balance values, rights and interests often opposed. And that's why the economic value of eucalyptus must inevitably be compatible with the environmental and social value of the indigenous forest, protected by the constitutional right to an adequate environment. This can only be done by a determined public intervention, which is not taking place today. [[Applause]] And in that sense, in addition to the change in forestry policy that the Socialist Group has so often claimed, the creation of a public network of native forests would help improve our landscape, create spaces for sprawling and enjoy nature and produce a great environmental and social benefit with very little investment of public resources. Because planting trees or preserving existing ones is much cheaper than creating cement-based infrastructures. The native forest can also serve as a school forest or a school of nature, as is done in many countries of the world, to a lesser extent in Spain. To create a public network of native forests would therefore be a public initiative of maximum effectiveness, efficiency and effectiveness. So if you will vote against it, I hope you will give some reasonable explanation that this initiative is not part of the Socialist Group. And by the way, I am sure that this initiative would count on the support and collaboration of all socialist councils and deputies, in which most of Galicians live. Nothing else, and we're going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u145	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u146	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. The truth is, I have listened very carefully to Mr. Aranguena's statement and I have also read very carefully the proposal for an agreement, which I think should centre on the meaning of our pronouncement. They bring the debate that the German Government designs, pushes and implements a plan with the corresponding budget so that in five years, in collaboration with local administrations -- in writing puts it this way: collaboration, really better later in writing it seems that more than collaboration is certainly almost an obligation or an imposition -- and that it provides itself with an autochthonous public forest, at least; that is, there may be some council that can opt for two. Well, apparently... I read it very carefully and I pray you also that all I shall say next to the interpreter in the sensitivity — and here comes my local advertising sister— that I come from Mondoñedo, where the first Feast of the Tree of Europe was celebrated, in 1569. By then the mayor, Luis de Luaces, under fines, forced the Mendonians to plant trees, and we even found for the 16th century ordinances that prohibit the logging of oaks. That sensitivity marked my character, and understand me well. Now it's also true that you started your exhibition by analyzing mankind's problems. I thought it would obviously refer to what tomorrow to put the washing machine cost twice as much as today and costs five times as much as last year. Or if in the rural environment, which is basically where our forest land is, because if we now ask our landowners an inquiry or people who are living in a rural nucleus, they would move the concern that animals are being attacked even as a companion of a species like the wolf, to which their Government wants to increase its protection. Or, of course, the high cost of gas oil or, as mentioned in the previous initiative, of raw materials. Well, ultimately, to those concerns -- and I repeat, I understand -- the solution Mr. Arunguena gives us is to recommend that we read a novel or also invite us to embrace a tree. If, indeed, it has these therapeutic functions, it moves us to Japan; and it does not surprise me, because, of course, if we have the environmental circumstances, which are among the ten most polluting countries in the world, it is likely that within the essential and urgent strategies they must adopt public administrations because they are equipped with species, sprawling places and evidently giving those forest baths. I ask you a question, Mr. Aranguena: are you able to list me ten municipalities in Galicia that don't have an autochthonous forest? I don't think so. And I also tell you something else, because I think it's a negative message: I think talking about deforestation in Galicia doesn't make justice with our reality, it doesn't make justice with our landscapes. And there we can also find lots of literature, which often writes the pages of our history — since we feel very proud — and here I will also quote another Mindonian who said that "the ideal image of Galicia makes me see with her great old troupe." I mean, the native forests are a sign of identity of our Galicia, without having to learn anything, with all due respect, of Japanese society, that at best in many things we really have to learn. [[Applause]] Well, having said this, I insist that all this is an exposition with the sensitivity that we should send messages about the environment — undoubtedly — that we must encourage that we continue to protect the leafy masses, that we must encourage, because there is also a fact that in Galicia is key: 97% of the forest land is of a private nature, and, of course, well, I do not know if you are proposing that in 313 municipalities in Galicia should arrive — I do not know — expropriate land to promote the implementation of an indigenous forest. Well, I think the idea itself has beneficial aspects. And I think that, in addition, in a pedagogical way, in the exhibition of motives, well, there are things I agree with, and the messages that are launched from this parliament must be respectful of the principles that you seem to allow to see in that exhibition of motives. Besides, I'm also going to tell you one thing: you here have spoken — I don't know if you can speak on behalf of the three presidents of the deputies, probably yes, it is true that since this weekend, because let me contrast it — but I, in local politics, am seeing that the Vilalba Council — in which, as you know, governs the Socialist Party minority — has had quite a lot of protests precisely by the many species that you here could perfectly identify itself from an indigenous forest. Or, without going further, in Lugo's Town Hall, I don't know if you know that in terms of the fellows of the Nationalist Block Galego we can define as a knife to the Town Hall of Lugo, which is the bike lane, because to put that green thing — that I go to Place practically every day and yet a bicycle I've never seen pass there — because they don't hurt him to cut the tree frame that he picks up when he passes by the bike. So I have that sensitivity, because I don't see the truth either in the Socialist Party, at least in my province. Well, without deviation from the proposal of agreement, the People's Party has registered an amendment, as well as announced by the president. It doesn't say anything beyond what's approved in the forest plan. Because, well, we have insisted a lot on planning and, of course, on the orderly distribution of resources and on trying to be predictable, because I think that in environmental planning you can't either wander around or slip around. And I refer to that mountain model described in the Forest Plan, on page 33 et seq., which -- I insist -- in many things coincides with you and coincides with that we have to continue to support and be able to increase the grassy masses. And the proposal that we have moved to you in the text of the amendment says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to encourage the active forest management of native leafy masses, as well as to establish measures to determine priority in the granting of public aid, and the dissemination of the usefulness of these masses, as well as the development of tax advantages for their owners, through the consolidated Register of indigenous leafy masses." This is what the Forest Plan obviously collects in a very short way. And I'm telling you, besides, I don't think it's positive that ideas like this reflect or want to reflect what Galicia is doing with its forests. I'm not going to get into the subject of the eucalyptus, because there too, depending on the socialist to whom you are asked, you also have an opinion in one way or another, because, if we asked the mayor of Castroverde and you listen to him here today, he probably wouldn't agree with you. But, well, like everything, for, hey!, in discrepancy it also enriches. But, well, there are, of course, professionals of recognized prestige. I found a very interesting article on October 28, 2019, which carried the title of Ten proposals for a forest bath in Galicia, an author who specializes in creating these experiences, also consultant Edgar Tarrés, who identified Galicia as an ideal place, without that proposal to have an obligation in each municipality, to be able to practice this forest bath. I always like to name things and place them. I quote ten, and literally says, "that ten, but I could quote a lot more." He had a very interesting experience in the Sacred Ribeira, he gave even a few days, and the valuation of all of them was very positive. He quoted the frigate of Catasós, in Lalín; the tescidal of Casaio, in Valdeorras; the forest of Fervenza, in the Corgo; the strawberries of the Eume... well, thus ten possibilities—I insist—, highlighting that they could be many more, and that Galicia, no doubt, was a wonderful place to practice these forest baths. So, in summary, if you agree to continue to foster that responsible forest management, without criminalizing any species -- I said: I come from the Navy and I put in value the entire industry that generates that species as well; you depend on who is asked, but in many cases they also defend it -- if they want to encourage those principles that are, in a fairly clear, consensual and well-known way, gathered in the Forest Plan, because of course we will support, because I have already told you — I would like you to understand me well — that we agree with many of the pronouncements, but really allocate budget in a mandatory way to establish 313 native forests, in every municipality of Galicia, as it is explained, I would certainly not be convinced. It seems to me that our proposal is much more respectful of local autonomy, much more respectful of what is the forest wealth of our Galicia, which is not the merit of the People's Party — not to be frightened — it is the merit of the Greeks — I say it many times, and I think it is the right line to continue encouraging the forests of leafland to be looked after, protected and still proud of them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u148	Thank you again, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Candia, in order to say that we never agreed with our ideas, I think we're going to have quite similar arguments today, so I heard. The first thing I have to say is that since BNG we are quite surprised at this initiative. In fact, I thought they were going to self-amend. I was surprised that they didn't self-amend. When we reviewed the documentation on this initiative, we saw that with a week of difference you had another initiative very similar to this one, very similar one, a week later. We understood that by correcting some of the various evidences that in our view has this initiative that brings up on foot in our understanding had a better body of argumentative and had much more meaning for us — I repeat — in the exposition of motives and, above all, in the proposals as it did. And they chose to bring this one, and we don't understand -- I repeat -- very well why, but what we have is what there is, and we're going to talk about it. I don't even know where to start. This initiative I read several times, I had to read and read it because I didn't just get the point of what they wanted with this initiative. In my perception there's a revolutionary whole of different ideas, different arguments. Some -- I don't know -- refer to the forest sector, then refer to the forests, mix terms even though they differ very well; on other occasions -- in fact, he just did it in his own exhibition here in the gallery -- mix the terms of eucalyptus plantations, relating them to the forests. I don't know, it's just a little complicated to analyze this initiative. By sneezing — I repeat — what is said here, we are asking ourselves a question: aren't there enough trees in Galicia? We don't have enough trees in our country? Galicia has never had as many trees on the plantation, nor any spontaneous forests, as it has today. It's, therefore, a matter of more quality than quantity than we had to be talking about. It's not about... It's not about planting trees in all the municipalities, as they say here, which, however, in the second initiative that they registered, they no longer said it in this way, had much more meaning — I repeat —. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Without going further and if we look, for example, at the last fifty years in the evolution of tree trees in our country and following the data from the successive forest inventories published by the State, the conclusion of this follow-up reveals the increase in the treeland surface in just over 50 years of more than 45%. We went from about one million acres in 1966 to 1,416,000 in the last published forest inventory from 2009; now, when the new one appears, it's going to be much more; a very sharp forest increase in the last decade, at a rate of about 30,000 acres per year, which is an area -- we understand -- very large. At the same time it was produced, as you have pointed out at some point, a clear specialization on the part of the territory in the production of wood, whereas in the rest of the Galician mountain, particularly within the country, where I come from, for example, it remained with little management and very little economic use. This was mainly due to economic development associated with depopulation, abandonment of agricultural activities, and so in the interior regions of the country, spontaneous re-connection processes, with newly emerging masses composed mainly of leafy caducifolia, which is what appears when forest spaces are generated spontaneously. So there are oaks, there are raisins, there are birch trees; there are, therefore, native forests. Going a little further back, in Galicia, along with what happened also in most of the more or less industrialized countries, there was a generalized expansion of the treery that put an end to what was a characteristic deforestation of the previous centuries. That forest transition — which is known as a forest transition — is also clear, as I have pointed out, in those figures that I have given you from successive forest inventories. It's more: already in the Ensenada Catastro, in the eighteenth century, reference was made to the scarce forestry that Galicia had, which was also given by various factors, by generalized agriculture and gain, but also, for example, by the extraction of raw material for its marine or railway use. Another factor that needs to be taken into account in our country is what it has to do with forestry, which is not reforestation, with afforestation made by state and European policies linked to the restructuring or destructuring of the agricultural sector. During the dictatorship, with the de facto seizure of the mountains in common, and in recent years especially the most significant influence in the last decade of the last century following the entry of the Spanish State into the European Union, and also coincided with a subject that was discussed earlier, with the application of milk quotas, they carried out policies of both productive limitation and subsidy of the early cessation of agricultural activity and helped to forest what were agricultural land, involving a brutal explosion of forestry throughout the Community. Finally, this forest transition in Galicia was clearly associated with the dismantling of the agricultural sector. Since the 1960s, Galicia, we have been "specialized" in two products in the state context: one was milk and the other was wood. Today we produce 38% of the milk in the whole state, with prices that don't fit, as we saw before, at the cost of production, by the 18% that we produced in 1960, and today we cut more than half in sawdust every year in the state context. With this picture, therefore, some of the issues he says in the explanatory statement — said with all regard to the world, really — can only be said, some of the issues that are raised here, from those who live in the city and who see rural as a theme park. Indeed — and in this I fully agree with what the spokesperson for the People's Party said — there are forests in most of this country. [[Applause]] Moreover, we are in Santiago, in the capital of our country, and in this city there are native forests. We don't have to go any further, we don't have to go inside Ourense. With the excuse of foresting in this country we lost wetlands, lost useful agricultural surface, lost rivers, lost biodiversity. The spontaneous-generation forests are very good. Watch out for the forests generated by the human hand! What we have to do — I repeat — as I said at the outset, is order and protect the existing one. Galicia is a country that for various reasons does not have a forest culture as the Central European countries do. We arrived, as I said, in the 20th century almost without forests, with a very fragmented property, and therefore for a long time in this country, many centuries we haven't had original forests, as we say here. The forests we have today in Galicia are almost entirely fruit of planting or omission. And today, as the spokesperson for the People's Party also said, most of the leafy natives are in private or communal hands, 97%, as she pointed out, very few in public. That, at the entrance, gives you a very short walk to this initiative. By going to the proposal of agreement and noting, with some work, some issues that you said, you talked about biophila, about the right to the forest. The right to the environment is not the right to the forest, there are places where the right to the forest will be and elsewhere the right to the environment will be the right to have clean waters, rivers that are sanitized, a biological space, not necessarily forest. There's no right to the forest. Because it looks like we're talking about adopting a forest at the end. You spoke to the lively forest, which is -- I don't know -- the culmination of urbanism on this issue. I understand, by going to the proposal for an agreement and by finishing up, that we are not getting rid of these issues, that not all the municipalities — I repeat — of this country can and should not have a forest, not all have to have it, it is not necessary for all the municipalities of this country to have a forest. I don't know what you're going to do with the amendment of the People's Party. It seems reasonable to us. And as I repeat, at the initiative that you registered just a week after this, I believe it is possible to arrive at a transaction with these points according to which you propose in this second version of this initiative — I repeat — that included issues such as encouraging the planting of native forest species, preserving and improving coastal forests, carrying out actions of awareness and education in the value of our forests, creating a network of native forests. He doesn't speak in any case of the 313 municipalities in this country. Well, I think it was a much more assumable and meaningful proposal of agreement. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u149	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. As for the amendment of the People's Party, because Mrs Candia spoke of consensus, we have no problem in consensus if they do it as an amendment of addition; if they do it as an amendment of addition, we accept it without further delay. Apart from that, you spoke as the problem of humanity's price of light and also of the wolf's attacks. I would like to point out to you that the likelihood that any Member of this House will be attacked by a wolf is very rare and that, in any case, the Central Government has put a strategy on the table, which will be accepted or not accepted, but also includes funding, also includes funding, just as it does not give the Council of Galicia to compensate for the wolf's attacks on the gain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's for your knowledge when you want to analyze that proposal. In any case, neither did I invite her to embrace a tree, at any time. In fact, I invite you not to embrace any tree, because the trees are not to be embraced, not by you, but in general. [[Laughter]] Yes, you told me you had told him ten municipalities in Galicia that they don't have an autochthonous forest. Well, I can tell you a lot more than ten -- an autochthonous forest in minimally appropriate conservation conditions. I put it by chance — in my area, indeed, more urban, because I know the Ourense forests very well — The Coruña, Culleredo, Arteixo, Cambre, Oleiros or Bergondo. Go get an autochthonous forest out there. In the northern part of Galicia it is frankly difficult, increasingly difficult, to find an autochthonous forest. Obviously, when you go to Ourense, there's a lot of autochthonous forest still; but throughout Galicia they are in frank retreat. You told me about Cunqueiro, about the native forests. The problem is that he died in the year 81, that is, four decades ago, exactly four decades ago, that was exactly the period in which the retreat of the native forest in Galicia occurred, which may be in the forest statistics as increased, as it happens around the world. But one question is that the mountain spontaneously recedes and another question is that there are native forests — as far as I'm concerned — in a proper state of conservation. And in Galicia, as much as you say to a gentleman who can take a walk through ten forests — you quoted three, and I could quote you to ten, indeed — what I propose is one for every municipality of Galicia and in appropriate conservation conditions. It doesn't have to be the strawberries of the Eume, of course, it can be a forest of a hectare, of two hectares or more, of the surface it is considered. As a proposal, it is also of public interest, it can be done in collaboration with local entities of all kinds and can have multiple purposes, and it is perfectly compatible with another proposal in which a broader strategy is proposed. This is a more specific issue, but we have made a broader proposal for the conservation of the indigenous forest. And you said if we talked about expropriating. This is not a communist state. You can buy land; that is, you know that a county can buy land; Junta can buy land; Deputies; or all administrations together. Mrs. González Albert told me that in Ourense there is no such problem. Indeed, it is the only province of Galicia, or practically the only province of Galicia, in which there is no extreme situation I am describing. But it's just that I'm talking about all of Galicia, every county in Galicia. I set as an example the council of Castro Caldelas, in which, for example, an initiative was made of a forest that is called "evitable mouth", which goes in line with what we are proposing. If that's what all the municipalities in Galicia do, because we understand that it would be appropriate, that it would have a functionality of many types and a social, economic, landscape, cultural, even educational, and of all kinds. From there there there are communities like Catalonia, which created a network of untouchable forests with more than 150 in all Catalonia. The European States protect an average of 5% of their territory as woodland areas that cannot be touched. It's not the case of what we propose, but it's by giving some brushes of what goes on a similar line. And if you do, you have to do it in a sustainable and respectful way with biodiversity. Instead, in Galicia there is a large forest area — we all know — but very little officially protected forest and, much less, well preserved. This goes against — I insist — the constitutional right to an appropriate environment, which is of course much broader — I cannot explain what is the right to the environment, which is indeed much broader. I'm talking about a realization of the right to the environment. But it also goes against the sense of the world and the well-being of citizenship. And one of the most important forests of Galicia, for setting one example, as are the forests of the Eume — natural park and protected theory — is besieged and invaded by the eucalyptus. And in the native forest, only 32 percent, when in the year in which it was created, in 1997, it was 40%. We also have the Debt of Anllares, in the case of the Coruña. If we go all the way to the coast of Death, there's practically no forest left. The Debt of Anllares is practically fading overrun by the eucalyptus. The complaint, the information, which Adega recently presented, is that since the eucalyptus moratorium was implanted, the equivalent to more than 200 football fields and that more than 100 complaints were filed, and so on. We insist — and finished — that every citizen of Galicia, not only those of Ourense, who can already enjoy in his vast majority of many native forests but which is not incompatible with the initiative that we are defending and considering, should be able to take a walk through an indigenous forest without needing to take a car and get out of their municipality, in the same way that every child or child of Galicia should be able to do its own. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u151	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the defence by the Galician Union of the interests of the maritime-fishing sector and its sea-industry chain in the face of the actions of the Central Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u152	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u153	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u154	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I'll begin by briefly exposing some points that are aggravating since the decisions of the Government of Spain, of the Central Government, to the sea-fishing sector and its sea-industry chain. The truth is, since Sánchez arrived in the Government, since that coalition of PSOE and Podemos, with the support of the Galician Nationalist Block, the decisions they are making from Madrid with regard to the fisheries sector are all quite negative. We begin with the change of the Law from back to back, after attempting it with the Back Regulation, to close the concessional deadlines and increase the discretion of the concession holders' continuity — first point —. We've warned you. We've been accused here of alarmists and now they're in a problem of very worrying legal insecurity for the whole sector. Secondly, the ban on the marketing of maracco. Whereas the quota is granted to be able to fish for this kind of species, on the other hand, the possibility of its sale is denied. So you can't market and affect the fleet of an autonomous community, which is the autonomous community of Galicia, and this is also a very big aggravation for the longline fleet in Galicia. Thirdly, it is proposed by the Spanish Plan 2050: Foundations and proposals for a long-term national strategy. In this proposal the only reference to fishing and seafood comes on page 199 — more than 600 pages — and points out in a paragraph or the following: "To tackle the transformation of sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport and tourism with a view to reducing their high environmental impact and achieving greater sustainability in them". The sector is already shaking because it doesn't know what this is all about, but the truth is it seems to be a re-examination of everything that is being done and how it works in Galicia. Another point is the proposal to limit the fishing of eagles. The Ministry of Ecological Transition seeks to include this species in the list of wild species in a special protection regime, against the criteria of autonomous communities of Cantabrian and the Ministry of Agriculture Fisheries and Food. On the one hand, a minister — a minister — and on the other hand, another minister. Another point: the vaccination of sailors. There's also a conflict at this point. They signaled that we should vaccinate directly, that we had the competences in the autonomous communities — especially in Galicia — that nothing prevented us. And the minister himself then disallowed what Members of Parliament said here, pointing out the following — words from the minister — "Whenever it touches them, in turn it touches them and with the vaccine that touches them". Therefore, the minister once again disallowed decisions that were made here by the Socialist Party of Galicia concerning the fishing sector and the mariners. Another point: Community Reference Laboratory in Marine Biotoxins. We still remember when the Galician Socialist Party pointed out that it was a failure at Galicia's request to host the tasks of the British CEFAS. And Minister Cercedo, who no longer knows where he is, came to stress the importance of the laboratory in assuming these competences, as they come to strengthen the dimension of the centre and the research carried out jointly with the University of Vigo, or further disauthorization by the Ministry and the Government of Spain to the Socialist Party of Galicia and its Members in this Parliament. The control regulation. The Socialist Party votes against this regulation here, but then votes in favour in Brussels. So, there, as I say, the doubt is always settled. Then in the budgets there is also a game to comply with this regulation; therefore, an alert and a danger, in a way, for the bass fleet. Then he says there'll be an exception for the Galician rivers. Try to fix it. But there's also some concern because we don't know how the Government of Spain will act at this point in the control regulation, which is very aggressive for the bass fleet here in Galicia. Another point is the amendment of the Law of Back to the Law of Climate Change. I used to talk about it at the first point, but they had to amend it when they realized — as Galicia said, as the sector said here — that it was unconstitutional and had negative retroactive effects. As I say — I insist — they're still in legal insecurity on the table and they still don't know what's going to happen. Finally, the use of the Maritime Exploitation Plan. Then I'll talk a little more about the kid, but in twenty-nine years he'd never done this. I mean, the truth is, it's very striking how it acted, aggressiveness in the way it acts, little knowledge and the direct aggravating of the fishing sector. So you see the number of decisions, the amount of intentions, the Government of Spain that are going against the fishing sector. Never do your decisions prioritize fishing, never! Their decisions attack the sector, and — I insist — we present individual initiatives to the Commission and this plenary with some of these points. But today we make a set, because we're at the end of the year, to give a touch of attention. Because the fact is that it is serious that all of this goes on without the Government of Spain making any decision and that the fishing sector is now, because a lot of problems might arise in the immediate future. As I say, the Law on Climate Change and Energy Transition that the Ministry of Ecological Transition has promoted is causing great concern in our country's marine industry. We're in December 2021 and we still don't know anything. It's more, it's been around, since the end of November 2021, the proposal for a back regulation, which is even more serious. So, let's hope that in this case they make a decision that can breathe and give some assurance to these companies, to these cocoders and all the canteens on the coast, to those who are affecting that Climate Change Act. It's a stick on the wheel of the Welsh industry. And it's true that you always say that in Galicia we have competence, but it's very difficult to exercise competence in industry when the changes in sectoral regulations are in this line, because, really, this is completely torpedoing the work that needs to be done. There is no doubt that we must act against climate change and in favour of an energy transition, but this is, as I say, an energy betrayal at the expense of fishing, at the expense of the fishing sector. And this list of aggravations I read at first are just the tip, because the truth is that decisions are made without prior dialogue, without attending the sector, without talking to them and, of course, without responding to requests or requests made from the Fisheries Council and from the Council of Galicia. Since 2009, the German Government has been claiming a number of transfers to the State Government. One of them is coastal management and management of the maritime-terrestrial public domain. And we believe that it is now more necessary than ever before, as I say, in the face of this legislation that seems to be being done without regard for anything as is the Greek fishing sector. They try to change the criteria of temporary extension of concessions, try to change the criteria of settlement of the structures of companies or administrations, try to interfere in the areas of management of other administrations. I mean, they really are very aggressive and very harmful decisions for the fishing industry. On the subject of the brown — which I had commented on before — the dientus brown is fundamental for the long-lived fleet of Galicia, it is fundamental. Suppose about 10% of your annual captures, and even if it looks like a low percentage, it can be a point in your billing that's no profit in your activity. In April 2020 — we are talking about April 2020 — the main long-range fisheries organisations — Burela, Lugo, Vigo, Marín and La Guarda — have already launched a call for aid to the Central Government due to the problems that have been taking place. They thought it was something on time — i.e. maybe an intrusion of a ministry over another — but it's just that we're now in December 2021 — I insist — and it's still not solved that problem. And the longline fleet of Galicia is suffering and is completely drowned by a decision of the Ministry of Ecological Transition, which, as I say, is a betrayal of the fishing sector. I don't have time to talk about everything, and I would also like to talk about, for example, the subject of the regulation, the theme of the General Plan of Maritime Exploitation, that is, the resource that has been established. In twenty-nine years of self-government, always having the same criterion, the same way of working, never had such serious interference, such serious intrusion by the Government of Spain. The German Government, as I say, has been working on and approving plans for marine exploitation for twenty-nine years without the fact that there has been no problem or request from any of the governments, of any of the ministries, in which preliminary reports have been requested. Nor has reference been made or action taken by the Central Government against the different rules, against the laws, decrees and orders governing the formulation of these plans. But, after December 31, 2020, when the CEO published the Order of December 21, by which the Maritime Exploitation Plan was approved for the triennium 2021-2023, what happened? It has happened that the Council of the Sea has been aware of the referral by the General Technical Secretariat of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge of a prior requirement against the Order of 21 December 2020 for the approval of this plan of exploitation. And according to article 44.3 of the law, assuming that, within the month following the receipt of the previous requirement, this autonomous administration did not answer in accordance with the indicated procedure, it would be brought before the corresponding litigation-administrative remedy to urge the judicial annulment of the given order; that is, a threat in every rule. Therefore, no requests for clarifications or allegations of interaction. Only: Take this aside and give me the reason. So today we wanted to put together several points in a non-law proposition at the end of this year, at the end of the legislation, because, as I say here, I am talking about April 2020, and I am talking about decisions that have been made with the Back Law, with the Climate Change Act, a long time ago, and nothing has yet been resolved. I mean, the year is over, and the fishing sector is still holding its neck by the Government of Spain. So, I hope that we can reach an agreement, since two amendments have been tabled — the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block — so that they really stop making a mistake, stop martyrdom and flogging directly the Greek fishing sector, which is suffering a lot from the decisions of the Government of Spain of Sánchez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u156	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Mr Egerique said, at the end of his speech, that his intention was to bring together several points from various initiatives that have already been debated and were voted in this House, both in plenary and in Commission 8th, and that have already been adopted unanimously. The intention is therefore to bring these various points to an agreement and to consensualise and support the sector. But we see that all they did was take advantage of, put all these points together, why? To throw balloons out and to, of course, criticize and lie about the central government. It is just that you have been very little strict, because it is supposed that when a Member or a Member is in this House and is acting on an initiative, at least it will have a bit of rigour. You've come to say, "they're going around," "I said there," "they're saying around there," but what rigor is that for a Member, to come here today to say, "that they're telling me," "no, I don't want to shut up, but fulanito says that..."? I'm sorry, but that's the truth, I don't know, it has no name. [[Applause]] Look, you've come up here to criticize the central government. Look, he said that, of course, from the Central Government they had also disauthorised Members and Members of the PSdeG of this House. He came to say it on the subject of seafarers' vaccination. Look, no Member or Member of this House has been disallowed. Why has Cantabria vaccinated his sailors before? Why has Euskadi vaccinated his sailors before? Could you or couldn't you? So, look, what he did to Cantabria and Euskadi with his sailors at the time of vaccination proved that what they were saying from the Government of Galicia was a lie. [[Applause]] But, look, in that whole revolution that you brought here today, you started talking about a minister named Cercedo, and asked where was Minister Cercedo. I don't know if there was any minister Cercedo and I don't know where he is. I do know where Minister Carcedo is. He's in the Congress of Deputies and, among other things, he's been pushing, working and approving the Euthanasia Law, which you voted against. [[Applause]] And, look, we can share the requests referred to in the non-law proposal that brings the People's Parliamentary Group to debate today. We agree at the heart of today's initiatives brought by the People's Parliamentary Group, which basically call for – leaving all literature this aggravating, insecurity – legal security in the reform of the Coastal Law and the Climate Change Act, coordination between fishing and the marketing of maraccia and the withdrawal of the State's appeal against the Maritime Exploitation Plan 2021-2023. As I said, we share these requests, as we have already shown in this House on numerous occasions, either through our own initiatives or by supporting the initiatives put forward by other parliamentary groups. But they will understand that we cannot share the ways in which this initiative is being presented. Because no, it's not true that you present this non-law proposal to win the consensus of this House in order to defend the interests of the marine-fishing sector and its sea-industry chain. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's not your will. The real will is to criticize and seek confrontation with the central government. It was thus demonstrated by Mrs Egerique's intervention and by her own drafting that gave this proposal not of law, with constant affirmations such as that fishing, seafood, aquaculture and Galician transformation chain were and are the object of attacks and unjustified obstacles by the Government of the State, actions that cause anxiety and economic downturn, instability, lack of legal certainty, incoherence and incoherence — and they speak out against self-government, it is incredible that this comes from the People's Party. [[Applause]] But of all that is what you speak of in your explanatory statement and in your resolvative part. I repeat that the only thing they're looking for is not to work for and benefit of the interests of the marine-fishing sector and its marine-industry chain, but rather that what they're looking for — in which they're experts — is to twist reality, search for headlines and confront the central government. That's why we tabled a substitution amendment which is a defense of the sector, a amendment in which the same requests as those referred to in the non-legislative proposal of the People's Party are collected. Only by removing those attacks from the central government but also by asking the central government to do the same. So we don't see any problems in accepting our amendment to win that unanimity of support for the sector. Because, in our amendment, we ask the same thing: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to defend the interests of the maritime-fishing sector and its marine-industry chain by developing how many actions are necessary to gain the greatest legal certainty in changing the Coastal Law and the Climate Change Act" — do you agree or not? — "the greatest coordination in fishing and marketing of the marrakese" — do you doubt something about this?, do you agree? — "and also the strict compliance with management procedures in order to be able to excite and conquer the withdrawal of the State's remedy against the Maritime Exploitation Plan 2021-2023". So we're asking for the same three claims you're considering in your not-law proposal. But I want to do some punctuations. With regard to the amendment of the Law on the Back and the Law on Climate Change — employed by the People's Party to deceive and twist reality by saying that under this law concessions and extensions of occupation of the maritime-terrestrial public domain were being attacked — I want to need a little thing. The only extension of the occupation of the public maritime-terrestrial domain which has been denied by whom has been denied? For the Galician Union, not for the Central Government. On the other hand, the central government has been able to find solutions for concessions of some extensions that presented difficulties. That, you, Mrs. Egerique, you know that well. But look at the level of hypocrisy at which the People's Party comes: on the one hand they demanded greater legal certainty from the previous article 18.3 of this law—then, according to the Popular Parliamentary Group and also the Fisheries Adviser, there was bad faith in this article 18 of the Climate Change Act—and, when the PSOE brought an amendment to the Senate to change the expression "acts dictated" by "acts to be said", following the line suggested by the State Council and eliminating any doubts about the retroactivity of the concessions of activity on the coast—what were you asking for—what did they do? They didn't support this amendment. So one thing is what they say they do and another thing they do. After that campaign of fear, of pressure exerted by the German Government with that previous article 18.3 of the Climate Change Act, they go and do not support the amendment. And now you do seem to go on a line other than that of the German Government, because now the People's Parliamentary Group is still looking for controversy with this law, and also with the future amendment of the Law of Back, and the president of the Government and the minister of the Ecological Transition himself agreed to open lines of dialogue about this Law of Climate Change. On the one hand and on the other. As far as the marketing of maracco is concerned, the position of the PSdeG group is known, which does not, of course, share the ban on the marketing of lawfully fished species, and we have shown it on many occasions. With regard to the third point, the PP is again trying to trick the State's resource into the Maritime Exploitation Plan, which for the first time has a duration of three years rather than one year, as it had so far. It is an artificial subject, as I said earlier with the Climate Change Act, that they — I repeat — ended up voting against what they said they were asking — but so is it in so many other things. Here, in this case, in the case of the appeal, they did the same. They said they were against it, and when the PSdeG agreed with the Nationalist Block Galego in this Parliament to ask if the procedure — i.e. if things were done right — was done well — and to ask the State to withdraw the appeal, what did the People's Party do? To vote against. By the way, that transaction also called for the transfer of competition from the public maritime-terrestrial domain to Galicia. And what did the People's Party do? He voted against it. And today Mrs. Egerique came to ask for her here and said they were supporting her. So, as always, the People's Party is gunning for those who really care only for conflict and confrontation. The reality is that he then votes against the things he says he defends; probably because the Socialist Party is in the solution of things and the People's Party is not interested in solving them but in dealing with them. They live on it. And we think it's better to make politics that solves problems, not conflicts. Everyone to their own, we solve the problems and others to create them. It seems that today Mrs. Egerique also wanted to wash her conscience a little by talking about this appeal against the Plan of Maritime Exploitation 2021-2023, she seemed to want to clear her conscience by voting against it. Our amendment is the same as its non-law proposal by removing all those unnecessary attacks that distort reality against the central government. We ask for the same, we call for those three points of legal certainty in the reform of the Coastal Law and the Climate Change Act, coordination between fishing and the marketing of marrakese, and withdrawing the State's appeal against the Maritime Exploitation Plan 2021-2023. If you have that urge, these desires to achieve consensus in this House to support the sector, I understand that you will have no problem with accepting our amendment. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mrs. Egerigue, before we started, we really wanted to thank you for explaining to us exactly why you bring this initiative here today. And you say they wanted to put together several points, make a set, because we're at the end of the year. Of course, you're so excited about this Christmas you have in your city and I don't know if you're so totally blind that you now move this initiative here. [[Murmurs.]] We, before knowing that this was his real reason for presenting this initiative, what we thought was that you were going beyond even that very deep thesis of Mr. "M point Rajoy": "Sometimes the most urgent thing is not to do anything." We really thought with this initiative you were overcoming it. Mr. "M point Rajoy" said that to refer to the absolute inaction of his government in the face of the Catalan process. You do it when you don't have or don't want to deal seriously with the problems of the Welsh fishing sector, which are many, very serious and that you are unable to solve. They present us with a proposal in which the famous article 18 — which is now Article 20 of the Climate Change Act — the problems of the marketing of marrakesh and the resource that the State has presented to the Plan of Maritime Exploitation 2021-2023 — that is, the three great blankets of the People's Party in the year and half that we have carried on legislation — appear together — as you said — in a mix, right?, of what you use to make a more partisan policy than ever. The truth is, I thought we couldn't be surprised, but we're even surprised. You, Mrs. Egerique, want to continue to do from here, from the German Parliament, opposition policy. When it's not a policy of opposition to the Galician Nationalist Block, it's a policy of opposition to the State Government. And now they propose to urge the Union — not just textually — "to defend the interests of the sector in the face of the attacks and obstacles arising from the actions of the central government, and to develop how many actions are necessary". Of course, we, in the face of this proposal agreement, would have to ask them the first thing you've done this past year and a half. Because these three mantras, these three hits that you bring here, it turns out that we've already treated them in full, in commission, we're dealing with them again — now I'm going to tell you — and we've made a series of agreements, agreements in which Galicia's board was urged to do certain actions. So, as we see they're coming back with the same agreements at all, we'd like to know if they're going back to claim it because we're looking at Galicia's board. Because until now the truth is he hasn't done anything. [[Applause]] Look, first of all, at the Climate Change Act. On 15 December 2020 — i.e. one year ago — Mrs Egerique, the Committee on Fisheries approves textually "invoking the State to request the abolition of Article 18 of the draft law's office, as well as to give consent to any amendments to the Law on the coast as regards the validity of the administrative concessions on the shores of the sea". He was introduced by the BNG and the People's Party voted in favour. It must not have seemed good to you, Mrs Egerique, that it was the BNG that brought this issue to Parliament — this was in December 2020 — because in February 2021 — two months later — they literally copied our initiative and presented it to plenary. The position of the BNG was always the same in December and February: voting in favour of its initiative, which was the one they copied from ours. In that same month of February, and after twelve years, the councillors, the sea and the environment — not only the sea, that was little — give a press round and announce after twelve years that evil is so much that they will claim the competences over the public domain of the sea-terrestrial. [[Applause]] Hallelujah! Hallelujah! But it wasn't enough anyway. [[Applause]] That was in February, and in March came to attend the Fisheries Counsellor himself. Theoretically he came up to explain Brexit's. I mean, three months after Brexit came to explain to us Brexit, but he took advantage of his appearance to say here in this House, in this gallery, publicly, that BNG had voted in favour of article 18 in the presentation, when BNG was not even part of the presentation. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, they tried, Mrs. Egerique, to manipulate and deceive. And, of course, what they didn't say that day was what happened to the Welsh Members and Members in Madrid who voted against our amendment to delete Article 18. The scene that they set up here that day... of course, as it can be no less, was broadcast such that on their television, on the "tele PP." Well, in March -- we were in February and we're going to make a timeline, because since you said you were going to make a set, we're going to do it neatly -- the PP -- as soon as it hasn't all come to you -- presents motions in the councils, where curiously -- that's very interesting and very important -- in these motions he was talking about the thousands -- you were talking about -- of jobs in the sea-industrial chain that you were going to defend, which would defend you. [[Applause]] But, curiously, in those motions they only appointed a company. Do you know which one, Mrs. Egerique? [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, indeed, to Ence. Well, also in March, our deputy in Madrid transfers to PP, PSOE and the United Nations We can make a compromise proposal in Article 18 to exclude the sustainable activities linked to the complex sea industry. And, in contrast, on the same dates, the dynamic duo, the sea and environment advisors, announce that they send a report to the minister, a report!, prepared by the Juridical Counsellor of the Board, where it is claimed that the rule — of PSOE, of course, and of the United We can — is unconstitutional. And in that same month -- you guys worked a lot -- they even made a video, they posted a video! [[Laughter]] It was an anonymous video from the Popular Party of Pontevedra, but anonymous. [[Laughter]] And they accused us textually of " burying the entire industry of the Greek Sea." [[Applause]] It was a video — some Members and Members will remember it perfectly — in the style they did when the Bipartite wanted to push the Land Bank. [[Laughter]] Remember the one about "PSOE and BNG want to stay with your lands"? [[Murmurs.]] Some lands, by the way, which over the years have been used to form a bank of lands — in their own way, of course — that you put in motion. For in that video, anonymously, it turns out that they textually said, "PSOE and BNG are selling the Greeks in Madrid" — in the anonymous video that came from the PP of Pontevedra. By the way, out of the 4,000 companies in all of Galicia that you said would affect Article 18 only name one in the video. [[Murmurs.]] You know, don't you? Get on. [[Laughter]] Well, this was all in March. And it's just that after Christmas they came with a lot of energy. And in April 2021, the Sea Councillor redoubles the bet and announces that the Board will appeal to the Constitutional Court. It announces it on the same day that the law was voted in Congress, a vote in which the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the United Nations We can vote against the transaction proposed by the Nationalist Block of Wales, making clear what you were defending. [[Applause]] And after all this noise they've made all these months, the law is overturned, and -- guess what? -- the PP abstained. [[Applause]] Anyway! [[Murmurs.]] Secondly, the marketing of marrax. Let's order the facts. In October 2020... I don't know, Mrs. Candia... I mean? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] In October 2020 a PNL of the People's Party was approved in this plenary session to request the Government of the State and the European Commission to examine measures to protect the landfill which did not lead to the economic disruption of the fleet. BNG votes in favour. This is October 2020. The same initiative, absolutely identical...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u160	...with commas and points, the People's Party returns to take her to the Committee on Fisheries in April 2021 — finished, Mr President. The main problem was that the Spanish Government banned the marketing of a maracco which in turn the Spanish Government itself had let fish. Anyway, we didn't share it, but in November of this same year, Mrs. Egerique — I remember because I just want to ask Mrs. Egerique a question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u161	Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u162	...in November of this same year the ICCAT, right, Mrs. Egerique?, has just fixed a 200-ton cup of brownish and has just recommended — textually — "that it be forbidden...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u164	...retain on board, tranship or land, totally or partially, the brownie."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u166	I mean, it's -- it's over, it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u167	You got it. You understand perfectly well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u168	...just like the Spanish Government. Will they also present an unconstitutional remedy against ICCAT, Mrs. Egerich?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u170	Are you still going to absolve at ICCAT?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u172	I mean, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u173	I'm sorry. Now it's up to me to order something, too. Thank you. That's it. [[Applause]] I have to order time; if not, it's a mess. [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's it! That's it! [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, it's over now. Please! [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, you don't have the use of the word anymore. Please! Man, please! Time's up. Please! [[Mr Pérez Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Man, it's up to me to order something here too; if not, I don't order anything. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closing turn of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u174	Well, thank you, President. Mrs. Pérez, I don't know why you're so angry. He's already explained his story. [[Murmurs.]] He didn't get the ten minutes to say everything the PP does, everything the People's Party does. And what does the Block do? He's been ten minutes explaining everything the People's Party has done and he hasn't been here for ten minutes yet. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] See, the committee on which more initiatives are approved unanimously is the 8th Commission. I didn't tell you to vote or stop voting. I'm saying we approved a lot of initiatives that we sent to Madrid directly to ask the Central Government for a lot of things that are not being done today in December 2021. And I have a very calm conscience, because all I'm doing here is defending the fishing sector. You were here very upset and saying that I have no rigour, that I lack rigor, that I do not know the minister's name well. But they have not been able to deny that this is what is happening in Madrid, that this is what they are proposing from the Government of Spain, that this will directly affect the fishing sector. And, look, I can be at best very "lighted" but I'm from a city where most people live in fishing. And the Socialist Party, which rules in that city, looks elsewhere. And this is going to affect directly. All the terms of the legislation I'm talking about will deeply affect the Welsh fisheries sector. What happens is that you don't care, because, of course, they come here, they make four jokes, they laugh, they applaud and they name the Ence. Because the only one who appointed the Cence in this debate was you, Mrs Pérez, and on several occasions, with that obsession you have with the Cence. Look, they weren't able — as I say — to deny anything I said. It has been noted that all the initiatives, all the initiatives that we have approved, are still unfulfilled today. Because here you, Mrs. Otero, are the true hypocrites. I say they are disallowed by ministers because they disallow them in every proposal they make and in every vote they make, legislate and with statements. Because whoever said the sailors would be vaccinated "when I touch them, where I touch them and the vaccine that I touch them" was the minister, it wasn't me. He was a socialist minister. Then you can find excuses in the debates on how we do or stop doing, but I insist that the fishing sector is very thirsty. And he says, Mrs. Otero, that we came here looking for controversy. Look, when I say that something is going around here, it's because the Members of Madrid know there's a new coastal regulation that came out in November, because they were able to read in November a draft of the coastal regulation that will affect the fisheries sector even more. And when we already warned, two or three years ago, of the amendment of the Law of Back, you told us that we just wanted to scare, that there were few affected facilities, that we were exaggerating, that we were just looking for controversy. But the legislation today is on the table. And, for example, Thenaisie Provote, who is a Conservative whom we are debating in this Parliament, is directly affected by that law. It's directly affected. And, therefore, what hypocrisy practises is the Socialist Party. Absolutely. And I say you weren't able either Mrs Pérez or Mrs Otero to say that all the points I talked about were lies, or that they weren't true or reality. And I will point out, I will read them again: the change in the Law of Back, the ban on the marketing of marrax, the proposal of the Plan of Spain 2050: foundations and proposals for a long-term national strategy, in which it is said that we need to rethink the way of fishing, the proposal to limit fishing for anguy, the vaccination of sailors, the Community reference laboratory in marine biotoxins, the regulation of control, the amendment of the Law of Back Under the Law of Climate Change, the use of the Maritime Exploitation Plan — a resource for a maritime exploitation plan with which we have worked for twenty-nine years without having one problem. Not a single problem! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And don't talk about voting or not voting, because what you're legislating and what you put the laws on the table is a government of Sánchez, the Socialist Party and We can with the Galego Nationalist Block supporting. As I say, I have the hard rib, they can call me what they want as a Member, but the fishing sector is what will suffer all the consequences of their legislations and decisions in Madrid. So I'll bring all the bat burrillo. Maybe within six months I have to add even more measures to non-law proposals. I won't get tired of bringing them, at the end of the year, half a year or so, whenever they're going to defend the fishing sector, which is what we're here for today. As for the amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block, we could agree on the first point. They're little nuances in writing, and if we agree. But let's see, at the second point, all the matters pointed out go far beyond the competences of the Galician Union, you know it perfectly well; therefore, we couldn't accept it. We have approved a CNP for transparency and for the transfer of powers, we have already approved a CNP for the transfer of competences — in addition by unanimity — in this Parliament in Galicia. Today we are dealing with specific points that we have raised on this initiative; therefore, we will accept the first point. And then the amendment by the Socialist Party of Galicia, as I have already told Mrs Otero, is absolute hypocrisy. Absolute, Mrs. Otero! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know perfectly well that everything I talked about and what we're talking about here depends on decisions of the central government, everything, Mrs. Otero! [[Murmurs.]] And, therefore, we will not accept his amendment. Look, I'm going to finish with a few sentences of this situation of aggravating where the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries says one thing and then the Minister of Ecological Transition says another. You say you disagree with some things the minister says and therefore yes with Planes. Even the Socialist Party does not agree with all its government team. Teresa Ribera doesn't stop to get into gardens, tanks, Galicia. Mr. Planas disappears, because he comes around saying something but then, as I say, at the Council of Ministers, there are other decisions. There is another lack of coordination between the two ministries, which, I insist, is totally attacking the fisheries sector. And, therefore, it's particularly serious that since the Central Executive, ruled in coalition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u175	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u176	...by PSOE and United Nations We can — as finished, President — question a management system that is consensual to professionals in the sector. I am referring here to the Plan of Maritime Exploitation, which, for the first time, was intervened and directly attacked by the Government of Spain. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The truth is, in this proposal we spend a lot of time all groups, all of them. We have to fix something like this, we have to fix it because if we don't, we're going on schedule. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's go last afternoon. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in order to budget and execute freeness in children's schools from 0 to 3 years since January 2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u178	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u179	To formulate this non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u180	Thank you, President. A few weeks ago, the German president, Alberto Núñez, announced that the children's schools would be free. On the basis of the premise that the Socialist Parliamentary Group supports, as we have seen in our own programme, that the universalization of phase 0 to 3 is a key issue in the reactivation of Galicia, it is also important to deepen how to implement this measure and do things right, strictly, by optimizing resources in an orderly and efficient way. And, of course, we have to internalize the idea that working through conciliation should be paired up, yes or yes, with specific resources of co-responsibility and not do the opposite, as the Government is doing, which has lowered the specific game in this sense in co-responsibility. [[Applause]] What can't be said is that the Greek president throws headlines in all the media with the news when it's not even even defined the procedure. And it's not the first time that happens. In fact, it's a brand in the house Feijóo announcing something without knowing how they're going to do it. But they don't really realize that, in this sense, it's totally irresponsible to announce something without really defining how they're going to do it. Another mark of the Feijóo house is to appropriate and be the absolute architect of an idea or proposal through funds from other administrations—see the SAF, the Home Help Service, which gave for so many and so many headlines of the type "Junta increases hours in the Town Hall..."—. They do it as if they were given away, when actually who was spending most of the cost in recent years were the Town Councils themselves. It's the method I baptized as "I invite and you pay." And by the way, we expect it to materialize as soon as possible the update of the contribution of the Group that we proposed from the Socialist Group. You can then say that the modus operandi of the Feijóo era is based on four fundamental methods: first, the method "I invite and you pay"; second, the method "I release the exclusive and then we'll see how"; third, the method "Swallow", which is about the modality of the Government when in this case asks the opposition for certain information that it is not appropriate for you to transfer to citizenship, then whistle and respond with irregular administrative silence; and finally, the star method, which is the method "Good is thanks to me and the evil is thanks to you." [[Applause]] Above all, it is the method used to blame the Central Government — yes, when the Socialist Party governs —. These are problems that emerged here in Galicia by not exercising their own powers. In this matter, we weren't going to get rid of one of the quality stamps of the house. Because the fact is, before the end of 2022, Galicia will receive more than 17 million euros specific for child education squares, more than 2 million euros for textbooks, more than 133 million for scholarships and more than 113 million for vocational training actions — among many other items —. Yes, children's schools are obliged to send a letter to parents' and mothers' homes every month where they specify the details of the daycare bill that they don't pay and then put "100 percent subsidized by the Galician Board." Do you intend to use public funds to campaign using children's schools as advertising agencies of the German Government, lords of the People's Party? [[Applause]] That's one of the dangers of having so many years in power, that the boldness to confuse public opinion is such that the achievements are met when they are shared and blame themselves for their incompetence. Because, as announced by the Delegation of the Government of Spain itself here in Galicia, of the creation of 3,417 public squares in Galicia, the Government of Spain will invest 34.8 million of the Recovery Plan. And in the meantime, the German president uses the board institution to send children's schools a monthly letter to parents and mothers where the grant is 100 percent of the board. This has a name. And let's make it clear, it's called manipulation of citizenship. And we expect them to rectify from the People's Party. The measure, of course, is well welcomed and beneficial to people, but it is an achievement of the efforts of all administrations. They don't play the whitening of budget executions in their favor, because it would spoil the good intentions of the measure itself and the institutional loyalty that is needed today more than ever to meet the circumstances. It's an urgent matter to face children's own schools and citizens who can benefit from this measure; and of course, to provide information rigorously. Because there are issues that urgently need to be defined from the German Government, like knowing, for example, whether they prefer to grant grants directly to children's schools and not directly to beneficiary families. In this sense, how will it be regulated? Did they talk to the children's schools themselves? These kinds of issues are the ones that have to be addressed at this time, in collaboration, that is, of course, with the agents involved — children's schools, workers in the sector, parents and mothers — and that from this management there is a consensus that benefits in a measure that, first of all, is positive. But let's not play giving the exclusive and then run away. Now it is time to define how the process will be executed, and start it, of course, as soon as possible. At this point, it's more important than ever. Because one cannot announce such an important issue for the day-to-day life of one's own families — especially if not, mention must be made for the day-to-day life of women, who carry most of the burden of family reconciliation, and at a time when the crisis has affected them significantly more than men — and now disappear until September 2022. Therefore, from the Socialist Group we propose that this measure materialize as of this new year, of 2022, which was announced for that purpose. If not, why do you announce it and then you prefer to wait almost a year to execute it? Don't be that soon they'll be accused of selling smoke. Let us make it possible in coordination, yes, with the agents involved and, of course, with the cooperation of this Socialist Parliamentary Group to address and debate how to implement it in the best way through dialogue — which is very important to establish a dialogue with the actors involved —. And, of course, they have to practice more actively listening to citizenship, active listening to citizenship and the social agents involved, because they're worried about what the procedure is going to be like. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u181	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] It's now the turn for the amendment's group, the Galician Nationalist Block. And you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u182	Thank you, I'll try to be as agile as possible. We are going to support the initiative that the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings today so that that freeness of the announced children's schools has had economic effects since January 2022. In view of the fact that school courses do not correspond, therefore, to natural years, it would apply to the course currently in force, 2021-2022. We are based, in fact, on the basis that children's schools are a conciliation service for working families, but also — and I think this is important — is a fundamental right for children and children of any country — of ours too — because it constitutes an educational stage which, not being compulsory, is essential in the development and learning of children, which, in addition to these years, make up their personality and acquire their own language. Today, in our country, free children are already conceived. And what is now intended is to extend it to the first children — or to the only children, in case there is only one child or a child. We want to address another element with the addition amendment that we have tabled since the BNG. In line with this, we intend to address another element which is essential to us and which also needs due attention, which is the need to expand the public network of children's schools that currently exists in our country, focusing on or giving special priority to those municipalities where there is currently no such service, those who, above all because of the demand that exists, do not count on the number of squares or the offer necessary to meet that demand. And we also need to prioritize a space that is essential to guarantee precisely that right of reconciliation of working families, such as the business polygons or industrial polygons. This is also something that appears collected in the Galician Union's Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, and curiously the small game that existed in the Union's budgets for that purpose, or for that purpose, disappears in the 2022 budget project. Today in our country, the Galician network of children's schools consists of those that depend on the Galician Social Services Agency, those who are dependent on the Consortium — the so-called "blue galinas" — and on the network of municipally owned children's centres. With this amendment, what we want is, as I said, to expand that public network to guarantee the service where there is now no service, and also where more is needed for the demand that exists. Because, with data from the Galician Board itself of the course currently in force, 2021-2022, in our country there were 1,600 girls and children from 0-3 years of age on the list waiting for insufficient squares in the public network dependent on the Galician board. They were less than in the previous course, but we have to consider what is the birth rate that exists in our country; therefore, fewer applications have also been submitted in this call. We tabled a amendment — I insist — with the aim that it should be presented here and by means of this House, in accordance with Parliament's own Rules of Procedure, a duly planned and duly scheduled plan to expand and strengthen that network. And I have brought three examples — especially in the urban sphere but also in the middle city headquarter — to express or describe, in the time we have, what is the current reality of that absence of sufficient squares in the public network to guarantee the right of children to a child school and the right to reconcile working families. The first one, as I said, is business polygons and industrial polygons. There's a very clear example, which is the polygon — or polygons — although that's all a continuum — of the Porriño. He's one of the biggest in Galicia. The number of working people moving up to those polygons of the Town Hall of Porriño every day is huge. There are currently no children's school services in this business area, or in these industrial politicians. And I insist that in the budget project for 2022 until Galician Union suppresses the line of aid to create these infantry schools in business polygons or industrial polygons, which I emphasize are actions included in the Union's own Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan. It's fulfilling what you yourselves have done, drafted and approved. Another example is the city of Vigo, the most populous city in our country, the largest city in population volume in Galicia. It only has six childish schools of title of the board of Galicia, which are very far away, but very, very far away!, to meet the existing demand from the Vigo municipality's vigueous children. With the data — I insist — of the Galician board on course 2021-2022, there are a total of 524 squares belonging to the network of autonomic ownership of children's schools, and they cause 668 children who requested a place on that school network to stay on the waiting list and out of this service. It's six out of every ten requests in the city -- I insist -- more populous in the country, with neighborhoods like The Crosses, or like the Navia neighborhood, which have a very big pressure because they're also populated these areas, these neighborhoods, by very young people, at age, besides having daughters and children. And finally, another example is that of a county head — this case of the south of Lugo, of the province I come from, which is the municipality of Monforte. Monforte has been in office for years, but for years and years, demanding that this council be given a public child's school of autonomy, as have most of the surrounding municipalities and the dimensions of the municipality of Monforte. The Galician Union does not recognize the possibility of counting on this service to the municipality of Monforte, and this causes many children to end up having to go to the private network because there are no squares — not even in this case, service — in the autonomous public network. What we propose — and this concludes — is that, in addition to ensuring that, as of January, and therefore with effect from the beginning of 2022, this freeness is guaranteed in children's schools for the whole of Galician children and children, and that what is done is also strategic planning — not a year or two but it can be four years old — of expansion and reinforcement of that network of public children's schools to guarantee, I insist, a fundamental right, which is, in the first instance, the right of girls and children to receive education from a public service at this educational stage, which is not mandatory, if it is fundamental to human development itself. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Party, you have the floor Mr. Peace Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u184	Thank you, President. I think it must be the hours, because the things that were heard in this gallery... at last... "I invite you and you pay" — said the representative of a government who, as I know, continues without putting the part that corresponds to the Government of the State in matters of dependence. He accused of manipulation—for sending a letter of information—the representative of a government dedicated to putting stickers in the vaccines. And he accused us of misusing public resources the party that just appointed Mrs. Silva as president, after a judgment that believed that they spent 120,000 euros of the era would come to hire her sister-in-law. Note, note! Look, this is a curious initiative that consists, more or less, of telling us, "Hey, like you're pioneers, you have to be more pioneers." It is basically the foundation of the initiative, which I thank you very much. I'm surprised, because every time I come here to announce a pioneering initiative of the Union in the field of conciliation, you say, you're always pointing out that you are the pioneers and so on... and now you ask us to deepen in that condition as pioneers. Look, I think it's obvious to everyone that Galicia has become a national referee in recent years in conciliation policies, adopting a good number of these pioneering initiatives both on urban and rural borders; measures, all of them, that have been focused on improving two of the political priorities of the government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo: equality and demography. Look, since 2016 we've been pushing for the creation of 90 children's homes in the Brazilian countryside, these rural mini-schools that serve up to a maximum of five children and we're going to devote to the next year's 2.4 million so that they can already exceed 100 in the entire territory — that is, 500 squares. In 2020 we were the first — and so far the only — autonomous community to declare the freeness of children's schools for seconds and successive children, already benefiting more than 10,000 families of public, private, social-initiative schools, and also all the municipalities of those councils that are up-to-date in the Consortium; that is, almost all but the Vigo Council, which still cares about this subject despite the large number of judicial resolutions it received against, thereby thereby depriving the vigue families of a fundamental resource. And in addition to all this, we have granted more than 1,550 peace-bonds to families who need this resource but who did not actually reach a square in a public school. I believe that these are concrete measures. Look, in the last debate of the state of autonomy, as you have said, the president announced that in the next course we will fulfil the commitment contained in the electoral programme of the People's Party of Galicia. And Galicia, therefore, will become Spain's first and only autonomous community that will provide completely free educational attention in all the children's Greek schools. By the way, you said you were on your show. I looked for him and I didn't find him. I know you're on the Galician People's Party program. Right under "We'll approve the first law of demographic impulse" comes the universalization of child education. As you can see, we did our programs. And I was also in the BNG program. I didn't find him at the PSOE. Tell you what he is. And it will be. In any case, each and every one of these advances that I have just reported has been approved, financed and implemented without the support of socialists or nationalists, with one exception. Look, you denied them support for children's homes. Those 500 squares have never had the support of either nationalists or socialists. There was a socialist Member who, in this House, qualified them as an exercise of professional intrusion. They also denied him support for the freeness of children's schools for seconds and successive children. I have here the forty-fourth resolution of the debate on the state of autonomy of 2019: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to ensure the free education of children from 0-3 years for all families from the second child and to negotiate with the Central Government a co-financing proposal to achieve this freedom from the first child." Votes in favour: the 41 that then had this group. See, the Galician Demographic Impulse Act, which collected the 100 per cent of the childcare facilities in its article 49, did not support it either — and that is what they accepted 80% of the amendments they presented. Nor, of course, have they supported the 2020 and 2021 budgets, which have financed the freeness of these markets for the second and subsequent children. And I'm very afraid that the 2022 budget, right? Because it'll unfortunately follow the same fate. By the way, their partial amendments to the 2022 budget do not contain any share for the free of the children's squares. It is true that it contains one in the whole amendment. And if they want to fund all Galician infantry squares with 8 million euros, they just don't know what they're talking about. It can't even start. Fortunately, there's a government that takes it seriously and will equip it with the game it deserves, which is of course very far away from what you proposed. But, as I told you, every rule has its exception, and the exception came in that debate of the state of Autonomy of what you were talking about. Motion for a resolution 29: "The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Council to continue to move forward in the conciliation and support measures for families under the Demographic impulse Act and to demand from the Government of Spain which contributes to the financing of the total free childhood education of 0 to 3 years in Galicia, which will start from the next course". And who supported this initiative? The People's Party and the PSdEG. It turns out that today the Socialists break the only consensus we have reached in this matter, which consisted of two things, one is that we call upon the Government of Spain to finance that freeness – which you have supported – and that it will be implemented from the next course – which you have supported. I ask you: how much does the Government of the State contribute to these gratuities of day care facilities at this moment? —It's rhetorical, I'll tell you — Euro Zero, Euro! I know they're very thin today. Don't worry that I'll explain all your space. You were talking about a commitment from all administrations. Which one is not Galician? Can you explain? Can you tell me a departure from an administration other than the Galician Union that is dedicated to financing the freeness of children's schools in our territory? Can you tell me a single euro of a single departure from one of the public administrations other than the Galician Union? You say you consider this matter of vital importance. Well, to consider it vitally important, there is only one autonomous community ruled by the socialists in which it is being implemented following the star of what is being done in Galicia. Yes, it's done for 2-year-olds, not for all pupils, as in Galicia, only for 2-year-olds. By the way, we know, neither is Valencia receiving a single euro from the state on that issue. It's certainly a curious question. But in spite of this lack of funding, today the branch in Sánchez in Galicia immediately demands that the Government of Greece remain silent on this issue that they do not put a single euro. Home!, yesterday there was here in Galicia the top gun of the presidents of government, right?, the president with more hours of flight from the history of Spain; that, hey!, again used Falcon to come to Galicia because he had to visit a company. The interesting thing is to visit companies on holidays. [[Murmurs.]] We all know that's the logic. [[Laughter]] It's the logic in the country of Sanchez. [[Murmurs.]] And I said, "Let us know something." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, he's working. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He works half an hour before the PSOE acts every time he needs Falcon to move. [[Murmurs.]] That's right, he works, he works. [[Applause]] He works a lot. No, he didn't bring any news of funding for free, sky! [[Applause]] And if you slip here that there's a game for day care, it's true, but for the creation of new squares; new squares, by the way, which then have to finance autonomous communities. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, with or without consensus, what I'm telling you is that the Government of Galicia will continue to work to remain among the communities of Spain with greater commitment to conciliation. There are 25,000 children's squares, a school enrolment rate of 42.9 % — seven points in relation to the Spanish average — and broadly exceeding the 33% claiming the European Union. Rates are frozen for the fourth consecutive year. And, look, I think there's a few doubts. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a chart from the stage.]] This is the net rate of children's schooling from 0 to 3 years in Spain. Half is in yellow. Galicia is the fourth community. We don't need the creation of more squares, they're all welcome, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u185	You have to go through with it, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u186	...the priority is freeness. And you don't put a single euro for this. Finished now, but just two bubbles: don't say you reduce the game for conciliation, it's fake. A program is slowed down. The match increases and reaches 16 million euros, which is what the Galician Union devotes to this matter. And to finish, I just want to reassure them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u187	Mr. Pazos, see if we listen to the president and we'll recover...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u188	Yes, with or without the help of the government of Sánchez, without the help of the BNG, without the help of the PSdeG, Galicia will become in course 2022 in Spain's first and only community with 100 percent of the free childhood schools. These are the facts, the demagogy we've already left to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u189	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The author of the non-law motion, Mrs Ortega, has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u190	Thank you, President. Mr. Representative of the People's Party, Mr. Pazos, I don't know how dare you speak of dependency when the German Government of the People's Party is what you least invest in dependent resources per resident of all Spain. Unbelievable! But then, he goes on with the bat, when he also knows that those cuts come from "M dot Rajoy" -- which came out today very much. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, we accept Mrs Rodil's amendment, as it enriches the proposal. And expanding the offer of children's schools to reach all families is a way that we also support. Another question: if you can't do it now, why announce it a year before you execute it? Do you want to sell exclusively for fascics? We don't understand. They announce when they haven't even defined the procedure, a year before, to give headlines and headlines. It's how the Government of the People's Party likes it. They put the car in front of the woods. That's what they're specialists on. The case is to give the holder. The thing is to give it to the press. We're also talking about Vigo. And by the way, you also have to talk about the fact that since 2012 there have been five childhood schools on the part of the Town Hall -- in total, nine. This didn't say it, and it's also important that you remember it. By the way, they talk about resources. And, if you talk about resources, all respect also to the municipalities, to the local administration, which has been spending a lot of time dealing with resources in competences — the children's schools — which are from the Union. It's fair to name the local administrations. [[Applause]] And, in addition, with the aggravating of the vault, they put a lot more resources, which I would have to put together. Respect for the local administration! [[Applause]] And if you want to talk about resources, I repeat to you — because it seems you haven't heard — that more than 17 million euros specific to children's education squares, more than 2 million euros for textbooks, 133 million euros for scholarships and 113 million for vocational training actions — among other things — were by the Government of Spain. And in the 3,417 public squares in Galicia, the Government of Spain will invest 34.8 million in the Recovery Plan. He doesn't seem to have heard it, but I repeat it. It's okay. We all know that if there is any political will, we can materialise this proposal at the beginning of 2022. I don't know why they come to announce it a year earlier and they don't. Because everything is to say: We are the first, we are the first... but the first, what? if the measure is not yet executed. Given the context in which we find ourselves, conciliation and co-responsibility are key to the reconstruction of Galicia. And my province, for example, Ourense, has become the first province four years ago, where there are more pensioners than taxpayers — moreover, with lower wages and pensions. And after the beginning of the cowardice, women, along with youth and childhood, were also the ones most affected by the crisis. And by this fact, it's why a positive measure like this is not done in time. Because this is important to do it in time, given that we're in reconstruction. And, of course — I repeat — it has to be matched to co-responsibility, because if not, it would lose the efficiency on the benefits it can have on citizenship. So our proposal is that the Greek Government materializes the freeness of the children's schools at the beginning of 2022 — which they announced for that — and it coincides with an increase in resources in co-responsibility, which is completely logical and fair, which nourishes this initiative of sense and coherence with equality. And, of course, to do it in constant and coordinated dialogue — which you didn't talk about — with the children's schools — which you are asking — and with the social agents involved. Make it possible! We agree. Why don't you do it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-12-09-DSPG060.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. At the end of the debate on this non-law proposal, we will suspend the session until tomorrow at ten o'clock. Very good night.
