ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u1	The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. It has justified this plenary session by Mrs Carmen Aira. Two delegations were asked to vote: in particular, that of Mrs. María Monserrat Prado Cores and that of Mrs. Alexandra Fernández Gómez, who do so in Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. The Bureau authorized these delegations. We went into the agenda with point one. Election of the six vowels of the social councils of the universities of Santiago de Compostela, La Coruña and Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u2	The procedure was agreed through the Bureau of Parliament at its meeting on 19 October 2020, in which it was informed of the writing of the Council of Galicia, which communicated the vacancies of members of the social councils of the universities of Santiago de Compostela, La Coruña and Vigo, (document number 3530) by expiry of its term of office, and then on 16 February 2021, after the hearing of the Board of Spokesperson, agreed to be included in the agenda of the plenary, as well as the opening of the deadline for the submission of candidacy proposals until last Friday, 19 February at 1330. In accordance with Article 79 of Law 6/2013 of 13 July 2013 of the Galician University System, the members of these councils shall be elected. After the deadline, the Bureau, at its meeting on 23 February 2021, after qualifying the proposals submitted, agreed to draw up a single closed list for each of the social councils, in which the names of the candidates and the candidates proposed and the parliamentary groups proposed are alphabetically listed. The election, in accordance with Article 91(1) and (2) of the Galician Parliament's Regulation, shall be secreted by form and by alphabetical order and surname. The vote shall be taken by inserting into the corresponding ballot box the ballot boxes previously delivered by the services of the House, in which the names of the candidates and the candidates proposed are shown, marking the corresponding boxes with a stamp, up to a maximum of six, for each social council. The papers of the different councils in colour, which is white for the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela, blue for the Social Council of the University of Coruña and green for the Social Council of the University of Vigo, which corresponds to the badge in the ballot box in which they are to be deposited. Empty votes will be considered if no boxes are marked. No vote shall be considered when the names of other persons or other signs are written. The ballot will be declared elected or elected if most of them get simple. I suppose the paperwork is already distributed, if there's someone who doesn't have it, please let him bring it to us. Do you all have it? I ask the vice president first and the vice-secretary to sit in the ballot box for the collection of papers, and that the secretary lady begin with the alphabetical vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u3	It's quiet to see if we get this from the House's services, because you don't have a voice on the secretary's microphone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u4	No one left without a vote? [[Pause]] We proceed to the scrutiny. [[Proceeding to scrutiny.]] [[Pause.]] We already have the result of the scrutiny. Votes issued: 72. I will now read the members of the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela, who received all 72 votes: Don Manuel Lolo Aira, Don Francisco Xesús Anxo Louzao Rodríguez, Don Manuel Francisco Martín García, Don Ramon Medina González Redondo, Don María del Carmen Quintas Cruceira and Don Rosa Blanca Rodríguez Gutiérrez. Social Council of the University of Coruña, also with 72 votes issued: Don Maria del Mar Barcón Sánchez, Don Natalia Barreiro Mata, Don María Xosé Bravo Sanjosé, Don Jaime Fernández-Obanza Caro, Don Manuel Ángel Jove Santos and Don Immaculada Rodríguez Cuervo. Social Council of the University of Vigo, also with 72 votes: Don Xosé Manuel Atanes Limia, Don Julius Calvin Rodríguez, Don María de los Angeles García Míguez, Don Jesús Graña Nogueiras, Don María Elvira Larriba Leira and Don Yolanda López Fernández. So, having reached the majority, all the representatives that I have just read now are designated as members of the social councils of the universities of Santiago de Compostela, the Coruña and Vigo. Finish this choice here. We continue with the agenda, legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u5	This bill maintains the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. For the presentation of the Commission's dictation, Mrs Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u6	Good morning. I am presenting the Ditome on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for Galicia's Economic Reactivation. The bill, tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 19 November 2020. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 9 December 2020, admitted to its proceedings and issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. And this bill was taken into consideration at the plenary session on 22 December 2020. The People's Parliamentary Group made forty-five amendments, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego one hundred twenty-eight amendments and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia eighty amendments, which were qualified on January 27, 2021. Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, at its meeting on 19 January 2021, appointed the following rapporteurs: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Fr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, as holder, and Ms. María Elena Candia López as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, Ms. Nora Presas Bergantiños, as holder, and Don. Xosé Luís Bará Torres as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Ms. Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo as holder, and Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera as alternate. At the meetings of 4 and 8 February 2021, the Parliament studied the joint text of the bill together with the amendments tabled and completed the report, which contains the recommendations it made to the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the Popular Parliamentary Group. It also suggested accepting Amendments Nos 2, 5, 12, 71, 72 and 79 from the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and six compromise amendments drawn up by Amendments Nos 11, 39, 40, 46, 49 and 54 from this same parliamentary group. For the most part, it recommended the rejection of the remaining proposals submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and of all those formulated by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. The Commission, meeting on 15 February 2021, adopted by a majority the rapporteur's report. The text of the speech before the debate and the vote at this plenary meeting contains a explanatory statement, followed by sixty-four articles, six additional provisions, four transitional provisions, a derogation provision and fifteen last provisions. The articulate thickens in five titles. Title I collects general provisions concerning business initiatives. Title II regulates administrative support systems for the implementation of business initiatives. Title III regulates administrative simplification for the processing of business initiatives. Title IV is the case for urban and financial measures aimed at economic reactivation. And Title V sets out a series of governance instruments for planning, managing and controlling economic resources financed by the European Recovery and Derivatives Instrument of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The final part deals with specific aspects of administrative simplification and business support, and provides tax benefits for the implementation of business initiatives in sparsely populated areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now begin the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. Firstly, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Parliamentary Group of the People's Party brings to this House a proposal for a law on administrative simplification and support for the economic reactivation of Galicia which justifies as urgent. And, as we have already stated in the Commission, the Socialists do not question the legislative initiative capacity of any parliamentary group -- it would fail more!--; what we criticize and question are the forms. You process a bill that was announced by President Feijóo on November 2 as a bill -- and he also said it would be passed in the same month of November -- and then you change your mind, because the German Government brings the text closer to the parliamentary group that supports it and this is going to be a bill by the way of urgency. This is to avoid public exposure and pre-emptive reports, either from the Legal Counsel or the ESC. The role of the Galician Economic and Social Council as the consultative body of the Galician Union is once again denied. And I would like to remind you once again that the ESC, among its functions, has to draw up preliminary opinions on draft laws governing socio-economic matters directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development. And if you people of the People's Party believe that this law does not regulate socio-economic matters directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development, they should explain it, because neither this parliamentary group nor society as a whole share that vision. Or do you consider, the People's Party, that the economic and social agents who are part of the ESC have nothing to approach? [[Applause]] Do you think they have nothing to approach trade union and business organizations? Do they have nothing to approach the agricultural and fisheries sector?, the consumer sector, the three Greek universities and the social economy sector? Finally, the truth is that it is even more reconstructive that we have discussed the procedure for taking into consideration on December 22, when -- as they know -- immediately if the deadline for submitting amendments by parliamentary groups is open, and it turns out that the proposed group brings a bill with sixty-four articles and forty-six amendments, and then a correction of errors that amends two of these forty-six amendments to its bill. Amendments that even amend laws that were not modified in the original text, amendments that are incorporated into the Phoenician Constitution because you have sufficient votes, but to which opposition groups cannot bring any new wording. The fact is that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they bring a proposal for a "worked" law, a meticulous and rigorous work done by the majority group of the House, which has forty-two Members and Members. And then the spokesperson of the People's Party on some occasions, in an upheaval of contempt for the work of the opposition, makes us little worker. So look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: you, the group that supports the Government, having forty-two Members and Members, who have spent almost twelve months since the declaration of the global pandemic, with all the consultative bodies, as well as with that cabinet of experts about what you are talking about so often, bring us a proposal for a low-duty law, which eludes debates and the search for consensus and does not affect the structural problems of the Greek production system. Finally, they bring a text in which the German Government, in its own explanatory statement, already recognizes the failure of the economic policy of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] And I literally read: "Every crisis is an opportunity to change public policies that over the years have manifested an inertia of resistance to change and that in some cases has hindered economic growth." And indeed, the policy or the non-existent economic and industrial policy of the Galician Union for eleven years of Government Feijóo have been a brake on the growth of our country. The Government of the People's Party has passed two laws in the last seven years, which have also changed on seven occasions, and these laws were born with the aim of promoting entrepreneurship, supporting entrepreneurs as economic dynamizers, giving them legal certainty and addressing administrative simplification. These are unmet targets. Just look at the corporate trust data published by the INE for all autonomous communities, and we have Galicia -- and I'm going to refer to the fourth quarter of 2019 not to trap us -- was in position thirteen seventeen, or what's the same: fifth starting in line; 2.1 points below the national total. Once again, data shows us the wrong economic policy of the German Government to promote business implementation in our territory. And the more curious yet is that Mr. Tellado told us in the Commission that that was the line that the Government had and that with this law they promised to follow on the same line. Since then, the Government intends to continue in line with its own business failure. Well, we socialists present 80 amendments to this bill. We amend, first, the explanatory statement itself, since the People's Party Parliamentary Group presents an extemporaneous statement of reasons which at the moment of the taking into consideration was already present, since it alluded to circumstances that were already overcome and that we were at another time in the pandemic; therefore, with greater suffering for the economy and society as a whole. We socialists present amendments that would improve transparency, coordination and good regulation, where we introduced strategic planning, target management with measurable indicators, coordination of administrative units in information and support to businesses and entrepreneurs, as well as in the management of European funds; a more modern administration with a more flexible and efficient management, with results reporting that improve management. We introduced the evaluation of processes as a necessary step towards achieving the objectives of efficiency, efficiency and good regulation. We grant responsibility for planning processes, as well as evaluation, to the governing body of the Galician Union with competences in evaluation and administrative reform. We have introduced the Board of Auditors as an external body for the external control of the economic and financial management of the Greek Community. We set up more centralized information, updated through a single window, with an electronic portal available to economic operators. The Socialists tabled amendments that, respecting local autonomy, establish coordination and collaboration with the municipalities through a joint commission for better and more agile compliance with this law. We're looking for no guardianships or taxes, as the Galician Union has done in the past eleven years. We call for the removal of the content of the law that will replace technical and legal reports and certifications by certifications from external private bodies. And we also call for the removal of the functions granted by this rule to environmental collaborative entities, which are intended to replace the functions that correspond to public employees. [[Applause]] The Socialists tabled amendments in order to promote the maximum social dialogue that favours the co-governance of European funds and greater participation of all parliamentary groups represented in this House in the execution of this law. Since then, the Socialists cannot vote favourably on a rule that does not form the basis for a change in the Galician productive structure, does not take account of all the economic and social sectors of Galicia in its formulation, intends to decapitalize the public sector by granting public functions to the private sector, does not take into account the centres of knowledge and transfer, as are the universities of Galicia, does not count on the consultative bodies of the Galician Union itself, obviously the negotiations of obligations on the Public Employment Bureau of the autonomous community itself, does not seek consensus with the Greek councils in the pursuit of the purposes of this law, and does not take into account the parliamentary groups of the opposition represented in this chamber as legitimate representatives of a large part of the citizenry. Therefore, I anticipate that our vote will be against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales has the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all again. Since the Galego Nationalist Block, we have held our vote against this bill, which we consider to be disguised as administrative axillization is actually a Trojan horse so that the so-called "economic reactivation" is translated into an economic model basically consistent with the feudalism of large companies and the emptying of the public system; just contrary to what this country needs. [[Applause]] And the adoption of this law if we consider it to be the final embrace of the People's Party's Galician Union to the ultimate economic and industrial deregulation and that it sinks into a model of what the pandemic has already exposed its weaknesses. And far from correcting the course, the People's Party proposes, what it legalizes in this text, is the free bar to give our natural resources to large investment funds and leave the Galician society besides with increasingly fewer tools to have a margin of response to this predator model, which the only one who seeks to serve are the interests of the IBEX 35, which deepens in the climate crisis and does not generate added value or quality employment. [[Applause]] And the adoption of this law is also -- you have to say this with all your words -- a democratic scourge for its processing, which has used the parliamentary filibusterism of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group to prevent the social response. But the bad news we brought to the People's Party is that it didn't work. So this morning, civil society is going to be at the door of this parliament by answering this law, by answering the Forest Plan and also by answering its distribution of European reactivation funds. Because there is, in spite of these pandemic circumstances, a rebel Galician who knows that this law is one more step in a roadmap that goes against the interests of this country, that goes against a fair exit and galleas to the crisis and that does not put in place a new economic and social model that is fair, that is in favour of sustainability or the endogenous resources that we have as our country to get out of the way. [[Applause]] And the pandemic is an alibi in these circumstances; an alibi in the frame of other pieces that make up a puzzle whose result, of course, the Galician Nationalist Block will not go down. We've seen here the land management law being processed in the same sense, we'll soon see the approval of that bad land mobilization law, and this is a piece more than basically what it consists of is an exit to the crisis that repeats the same failed recipes as in 2009, with more neoliberalism, more deregulation and more empty of the public system. This country has memory. And since the Galician Nationalist Block, as much as they're angry -- we say high and clear and without complex -- we're not going to swallow this unilateral roadmap of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And what you did this month and peak processing is not that the text didn't improve, it was the worst. It seemed hard that a text which was already a legislative chapouza, which already mentioned articles of laws that no longer existed, could get worse, but you got it from the amendments of the Popular Parliamentary Group, with that great correction of errors of amendments of the Popular Parliamentary Group. They made ethical and moral questionable issues, such as making changes in the management of public employees in this country, preventing them from taking them to negotiating tables with union forces. They already show that they don't even have the slightest scruples, and they have raised the power of abuse of their majority and of parliamentary filibusterism. And can you do it? Yes, indeed, they can do it, they just prove it, but of course, it doesn't seem ethical or moral to us. And once we still have the democratic power to say it in this parliament, they're going to have to listen to it as much as they don't like it. [[Applause]] And another proof of the sovereignty and arrogance that we saw in this process is that of the one hundred and twenty-eight amendments presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galician told everyone that they did not. You're definitely the ones who didn't. They said not to public control, not to transparency, not to consensus, not to dialogue, not to bet on by companies that generate added value, not to close the productive cycles in Galicia, not to measures to transfer liquidity to medium and small enterprises, and a long list of nons. Because in this turn, what we're going to do is we're going to dismantle the fallacy of the People's Party in this legislative process, which is basically three: this law is urgent for the pandemic, it's a law that goes from administrative agileization and this law does not reduce even the slightest guarantee. That's the three big fallacies. First of all, it's urgent because of the pandemic situation. Once again we attended the pandemic as an alibi for everything. Look: it's only fifteen days from the start of the alarm state. You've been ruling for more than six months, and this could have been, if so urgent, the first law they've dealt with, and it wasn't. Because in this case the pandemic is exclusively an alibi, an alibi to deal with the urgency, to skip previous reports like that of the Economic and Social Council. Of course, refuse with your head, what are you going to do? The same week when the ESC does not support that private university in Abanca, it is clear that you have avoided passing this law through the ESC because you knew that you would not have a consensus and that you would not have the support of that body, that in addition you do what you do in this law is emptied of all functions. It's pretty good enough that in an unprecedented economic crisis, the Economic and Social Council is neither expected nor present. But it is that you still have functions and replace them with chiringuitos and creations of ad hoc organisms unique and exclusively because you, who have the majority actually parliamentary in this country and who rule, don't like to respect other union forces that have the majority in the union field. So what they do is draw the ESC because they don't like what they basically have to say. [[Applause]] And, of course, in the face of that, in our amendments, what we do from the Nationalist Block in Galicia is to bet on dialogue, to bet on transparency and also to bet on debates in another way, to drive the ESC and the participation of the social and economic agents of this country, which are many more than you invite to their press rounds. There are more people in this country and more collectives who deserve to be heard, who deserve democratic participation in the fate that this country has to have. We must also regret that this law advances in other lines that we do not share, for example, in the overload of the Greek municipalities. Once again, it's not only that they give more functions to the Greek municipalities, they follow in their wake not to cooperate economically with them, not to respect their competency framework. And the proof is that the Fegamp itself -- don't laugh, gentlemen counsellors -- refused this bill. Since you don't have most of the Greek municipalities, what they do is they try to draw with this law the role of the municipalities too, so they don't oppose the plans that you have for this country. [[Applause]] It's also the demonstration -- it's normal for them to laugh at because they laugh at this question -- that in this law, what you're doing is to make sure they have no interest in reaching any kind of agreement with this opposition, which we've been asking for transparency and dialogue on the issue of European funds. What you do in this law is legalize that chiringuito Next Generation commission, which basically what is the Galician Board of Governors and thus assign a number of functions so that it is the board of the board of directors exclusively who govern everything. If you don't want to be dark as seven cups, it could be the summary. Faced with that, in our amendments, we propose something as basic, as elementary and as democratic minimums as the approval of tractor projects goes through this parliament. In this parliament, you have the majority, you will be able to continue doing what you want, but at least a minimum of democracy, debate, transparency, dialogue and that you know by society what is that road map. The second big fallacy, as I said at the outset, is that this is about administrative axillization, right? when in fact this is the law of administrative dissolution, with patch measures, with privatization measures. You measure patch as is this 9th announcement of the Doing Business office building. Let's put the questions in context. We are in an unprecedented situation, economically and socially, by a health pandemic, and the People's Party is repeating the 2015 announcements. 2015 News: "Galice will have a Doing Business office to facilitate business creation." This is the portrait of your government: you are frozen in 2015 without offering anything new. [[Applause]] And it's also an administrative demolition law, because what they do is they replace administration with privatization measures. You're instead of betting on the line that the amendments presented by the BNG, the reinforcement of the public staff, their training, their organization, what you're doing is you're saying, no, we're replacing it with private entities that certify as important issues as environmental safeguards. I mean, the fox taking care of the chickens, literally. This is: we can go to a scenario where Ferrovial tax if Ferrovial meets, where Naturgy itself creates companies to decide whether to adapt the processing of an wind facility, for example, to regulation or not. That's the model you're formulating. Of course, we understand that in order to improve administration, what we need is more personal and better procedures, but not this. [[Applause]] And thirdly, I want to stop on a question that is that it's no longer a fallacy, that it's a fat lie, that it's not shortening deadlines, that it's not deprotection and that no guarantees are reduced. Of course they're reduced! To begin with, in a democratic society, reducing the guarantees of social participation is at least paternalism, for not calling it another issue, because you have procedures that directly exclude social participation. And in other plans they reduce the time of social participation. You are declaring Greek citizenship as minor and unable to participate in procedures and processes that directly affect you. And that, from a democratic point of view, is very serious. But it's just that environmental guarantees are also reduced, and it's fake when you try to hide this issue. And we have examples of leftover where they come from that in environmental assessment procedures, sectoral reports, if they are not issued in time, become positive. A very serious issue, such as Article 24 or Articles 43 to 49. And this is because in a context of wind powerlessness where there are many problems throughout our country, where Galicia is saying, "Eolique yes, but not like that." And you're doing what you're doing is a model of wind everywhere. You happen directly from a huge problem, which is to have a sectoral wind plan of the 97th. You do what you do, instead of taking this opportunity to initiate a sort of wind model in our country, it's quite the opposite; red carpet. There won't be a centimeter left in this country that won't be able to install wind power. You don't learn from the model that condemns recent judicial judgments, such as that of Sasdonigas or Iribio, and you bet on a production model, in which we can almost say that, in fact, 100 percent of the territory in Galicia is likely to have such facilities, because you're proving by the facts that you don't respect the 12% of the nature network we have. [[Applause]] But, in any case, this is one of the many issues that brings about this legislative project that we cannot but refuse. Because, moreover, we have to say, black on white, that this bill finds the failure of previous rules, the lack of planning and that in this pandemic you definitely don't want to move a coma of what you've done in previous years. But from the above we know the results: we saw a Greek economic fabric that faced an unprecedented pandemic with less resistance capacity than it would have had if it had a more innovation-based economy, for example, in quality employment and other issues that we introduced into our amendments. Today we have a weaker Galicia, with more relocations. And you don't take advantage of such a process to introduce measures that would correct this. Of course, she's very well dressed in press rounds of stagemaking. But this does not cover the previous failure of the People's Party, because basically what it presents is many words and few proposals in a model that should be profound economic transformations and the use of the resources that may come. For example, you cite the objective of closing productive cycles. We would embrace those targets without doubt if there were any measures to accompany them. But there are zero measures to close the productive cycles in this country. In our amendments we propose measures, and we also propose measures, for example, to curb relocations. Because it is unheard of that he is falling in this country with companies like Siemens Gamesa, with which he recently happened with Isobat, with Poligal, with so many other companies that had public funds and who took advantage of them, for example, in the automotive sector, to install their derivatives in Portugal. And you don't introduce a single measure, such as the Galician Nationalist Block, which is that these government-funded projects are being relocated because they will have to return to the last penny. [[Applause]] You also speak in the exhibition of reasons for innovation. The Government, which has us installed at 0.94% of the gross domestic product in innovation, is already far from the objectives of its two previous innovation plans, which both failed. Finally, I would like to remind Mr. Conde, since he is so attentive that they have even lowered their targets, we have increased from 2.5 % to 2 %. In any case, there are no measures to bet on innovation. We propose that these public aid be linked, too, and those economic incentives to companies that have a high value added component. And we also introduced measures to address the main problem of small and medium-sized enterprises, those that don't interest the Galician Union in our country, which gives access to liquidity. That is why we have formulated a Galego Institute of Credit and other measures in this regard. [[Applause]] In short, this country can sum up with what it's at a crossroads, where you have to choose between repeating past recipes or bet on a model change. What they do is they install us in the past, in the measures that have already failed, and guide all the extraordinary resources that may possibly have this country unique and exclusively for large companies instead of meeting the needs of the territory. Disgusting an administrative axillization, which is not another one, shows only the authoritarian drift that this government has, that it wants to decide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u12	...from the board of directors everything, without giving rise either to social participation or to the participation of social agents, or to the participation of economic agents other than those you choose to finger. So they won't count on the endorsement of the Galician Nationalist Block. And they know they'll have, not just on this bench, also out there in society, a strong answer because this is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u13	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u14	...the opposite of what this country needs. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u16	Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u17	Thank you, President. Mr. Second Vice-President, Mr. Councillor of Fairy, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. I have the feeling, after listening to the voices of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, that this is an opposition that does not go out into the street and does not listen to people. You must meet yourselves, only if you listen to yourself, live a similar reality, you are confined to yourself. And the reality is, if you think that slow administration is a guarantee of something, it's that you don't really live in that vast majority of the Greeks live in. You're probably very used to living in the public and the public, and you don't understand that civil society has on private initiative a great capital, which must be supported and created jobs. [[Murmurs.]] Today, when passing this law, you have to choose between agitating administration or being the precursors of "Come back tomorrow." And that's in the dynamics of the Galician Nationalist Block, which believes that a slow administration is a guarantee of something. I have to say that little democracy seems to listen to the opposition groups, the minority groups of this chamber, which do not recognize the legislative initiative of the majority group, as if in this chamber we have had the most to be less, which is what you want. The Government can push bills and parliamentary groups bills. Everyone, not just you; so do we. Why not? It is that way that he is given the Statute of Self-Government and the Rules of Procedure of this House. So, I don't think it's easy to understand how from the socialist ranks this group is criticized for bringing this bill, when you in the Spanish Government rule the coup of real decree. Don't take people's hair off. What exactly is wrong with you, that the People's Group should rely on the experience of management of the German Government, that the Parliamentary Group and the Government should understand us? Of course, this isn't a bipartite! We're a single government and a united government. With a parliamentary group that is also unique and united, which supports and supports that government. [[Applause]] It's just that we work hand in hand. I understand your surprise, because just a few months ago you wanted to be on the contrary: to draw out the Councillors of Galicia, to rule in the mornings and to oppose each other in the afternoons. So I can't make anything up. Because this has happened, we've already lived in Galicia between 2005 and 2009, which this party lacked a few votes to have the absolute majority and can continue to rule. They lost and you ruled. And that's exactly what happened. Therefore, Mrs Presas, indeed, this country has memory. However, that didn't happen now. On July 12th, the Greeks charged us all with the majority group, but so did you. We were charged with managing two pandemics: health and economics. That's what the Greeks decided on July 12, taking care of the management of two pandemics. And for that we bring to this full two legal and crucial tools to fight both: health and economic. You're going to vote against both of them, possibly because they haven't understood yet and they haven't taken up the ballot box. The Greeks sent them to the opposition, but not to beat them, but to loyally collaborate with the government, to make a constructive opposition, and you don't. They never did. So it seems and so we've seen they're not willing to do it now either. And as long as they do not understand the mandate of citizenship, they will remain in the ranks of the opposition for a long time and we will continue to see these new fronts, and they will all have the same destination, as Emilio Pérez Touriño, Abel Losada, Pachi Vázquez, José Ramón Besteiro, Méndez Romeu, Fernández Leicega and, now, Gonzalo Caballero in the ranks of the PSOE; Anxo Quintana, Xosé Manuel Beiras, Guillerme Vázquez, Xabier Vence, Carlos Aymerich, Francisco Jorquera and now Ana Ponton in the ranks of Galician nationalism. We win each and every one of them, and we win every one of them together. But now the important thing is to win the battle to the pandemic, to health and to the economy. You may continue against everything, against everything, not permanent, but we will continue with our task, with you or without you. [[Murmurs.]] And today it seems that once more nationalists and socialists have chosen to stay out of play. [[Applause]] And I can tell you, there you are! I'll talk about the law, because here no one wants to talk about the law in their speeches, and I'll talk about the law, we'll talk about the law. [[Laughter]] Today more than ever, it's essential that administrations be useful to citizenship, and we're at an exceptional moment that requires all the effort and commitment of the whole of citizenship, but also of the administrations. Administrations have to be the support for the work of professionals and companies, never a brake, as the Galician Nationalist Block aims, especially at the most complex moments like what we are living in. A moment like this makes it necessary to change the administrative culture of our country. The law we've dealt with today is a great opportunity to do so. Reactivation is that governments are pushing business and facilitating administrative procedures, so businesses and professionals can develop their business here in Galicia, as well as attracting new investments as well. That's the goal. You have to have courage to criticize from the PSdEG-PSOE the industrial policy of the Galician Union, when from the Government of Spain -- where you are -- they are a permanent attack on the entire industry of our country: the naval sector -- the public and the private -- in the automotive sector, they're closing the thermals, they're trying to close the Ence now -- we're going to be against -- we're going to be against the electro-intensive industry, they're attacking the entire marine-terrestrial industry. You're a threat to the Greek industry. Your party and you are the accomplices here in Galicia. The history of this law, they talked about it. We were proud of those backgrounds. We want to make a useful policy for citizens. And useful policy is to have approved an economic recovery plan with a mobilised investment of more than three billion euros since the pandemic started. That's the useful policy. Useful policy is a rescue plan for self-employed and hostiers, 160 million euros; a joint budget of the two calls, similar to the full cost of the Sea Council. That's commitment, the rest is words, words, words. And for that there is already the Socialist Party and the Government of Spain. Of course we want to keep modernizing the Greek administration, of course we do. We have done so since the first minute we came to the government with Law 14/2013, of rationalization of the public sector; Law 9/2013, of entrepreneurship of the economic competitiveness of Galicia; Law 5/2017, of promotion of the implementation of business initiatives. That law that you said was a "law of predation" and now they say it was useless. What are we left with? It is that you are against absolutely everything, repeatedly and continuously. Today we adopt a law that has as its primary objective the creation of confidence, because confidence is fundamental to the reactivation of our economy, to encourage consumption and to protect employment. To achieve this confidence, this law works on three axes: the speeding up of administrative procedures, support for businesses and professionals and the anticipation of taking advantage of the opportunity that these European funds bring. Well, we know that other groups are trying to block private initiatives, they always do so, with pathological mistrust that leads them to believe that overbureaucracy can be positive for someone. They forget that companies soon relocate and leave to Portugal or Morocco, but they don't do anything to avoid it. That's what we're going to see today in the ranks of opposition: permanent contradiction and opposition not to the Union, but opposition to Galicia. Perhaps the fundamental axis of this law is to speed up administrative procedures to boost economic activity. How? Simplifying bureaucratic procedures, eliminating duplication -- there are, what is not receipt -- saving costs, reducing processing times, simultaneously procedures, promoting coordination between different administrations in the processing of files. And no, ladies and gentlemen, this axillization in no way means diminishing guarantees or eliminating protection to other fundamental values, such as the environment, cultural or natural. Supporting companies is an objective of this law. Supporting business initiatives, especially those that are supposed to be located in rural Galicia, is one of the keys to this law. The law designs financing mechanisms for small businesses, supporting their implementation. Deduction of 100 per cent in the one-off capital transfers in the tax on documented capital transmissions and legal acts, for the acquisitions of real estate found in unpopulated areas; this deduction will be 50 per cent in the rest of the territory of Greece. Deduction of 100 per cent of the record on documented legal acts, notary documents, property tax and documented legal acts, for acquisition, grouping, division, segregation, declaration of new work and horizontal division of immovable property in sparsely populated areas and rural areas. The same deduction of 50 % for the rest of non-rural territory, as in the previous case. The law promotes the creation of a series of activity catalogues per sector, which will collect all administrative procedures for implementation, as well as a series of forms, models of application, which will, of course, make a great contribution to the companies that want to be installed. The law provides for the creation of the investment care system, of which you are against, because they proposed its elimination in their amendments; a system for electronic access to all the information and documentation indicated and for real-time consultation of the processing state. The law promotes the offices Doing Business Galicia as a unit specialized in the accompaniment and processing of these industrial projects. Moreover, this law proposes the development of an individualized accompaniment system, with a network of business support offices. Article 56 regulates the concept of tractor project. The law promotes the creation of specific financing instruments for initiatives promoted by startups, entrepreneurs and small businesses. We promote this law knowing that European funds represent a great opportunity for the future, an opportunity to minimize the impact of the pandemic and support companies in these difficult times and to transform our economy by promoting a more sustainable, greener and more digital model. But to take advantage of these opportunities we must be prepared. That's why anticipation is that third axis of this law, with a complete and comprehensive mechanism for planning, managing and controlling these European funds. This law reinforces the Commission Next Generation, as regulated in Article 60; also the Technical Committee regulated in Article 61, which will advise on the evaluation of plans and projects that are examined by the European Commission. And finally, this proposal also seeks to encourage participation, against everything we hear now from the Nationalist Block of Wales, of course. To encourage participation, in particular in Article 63, to provide for three instruments in the planning of funds: the commission of economic experts, the tables of social dialogue -- existing in Galicia, and in which the Greek unions and employers participate -- and through a working group consisting of Fegamp. Of course this law has participation mechanisms, of course it has them. We count on the main institutions and economic experts, the representatives of workers and businesses, as well as the municipalities. Finally, a broad representation, a generous representation of Greek society. This law represents an opportunity to move forward, to make the administration a necessary collaboration for the implementation of business initiatives and the development of economic activity. Others claim that administration is an obstacle, that it stops everything, that it frees everything. Others would prefer to present in this House the "legislation of administrative slowdown in Galicia", and we present in this House the Law of administrative simplification in Galicia and economic recovery, a very different law than others would wish to push forward with their amendments. In short, this is a law that continues the work that the German Government has developed since the minute one of the beginning of this pandemic in March. Supporting professionals and companies aims to establish a new administrative culture in Galicia. A law that lowers taxes and creates advisory mechanisms for companies, and regulates the shape of tractor projects. A law that anticipates the arrival of these European funds by developing instruments for their management, for their planning, for their control. A law, ultimately, for Galicia to move forward and deal with the economic pandemic derived from the health pandemic. I regret that the opposition groups have already stated that they are unwilling to support this law; because if they are not ready now, at the worst moment we could live in decades, when will they be collaborative? when will they make a constructive opposition? Probably never. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now begin the round of parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. Firstly, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado Filgueira, the truth is you always despise the work of the opposition. The Socialists tabled 80 amendments to this proposal for a law from the sectors concerned: the business sector, the wind sector, the environmental sector, the Fegamp and experts. So, I don't mind him coming to cover us up here and talking about what we saw with patalettes. I ask you a little respect for the work of this opposition, which we work to try to improve and enrich the rules that you bring, and even some of your own initiative. [[Applause]] But you, with your turn, with your forty-two Members and honourable Members, prevent that enrichment from happening, prevent that dialogue from taking place and prevent you from going ahead with the initiatives that we, too, have brought to this Greek parliament. We fully agree with the axillization of the administration, totally agree. In fact, we have made it clear in our amendments, with the acceptance of many of the things we have been talking about both in the Commission and in the previous plenary session. But we want it to be a secure administrative axillization, using public employees, using negotiation in the Public Employment Bureau to see the situation of staff, their membership, their training and their remuneration. You get here and come here to this gallery and talk about the Bipartite because what you're saying is that you have no arguments to defend this law. Mr Tellado, you come here and speak of European funds as an opportunity; of course, we fully agree that I am an opportunity. Why didn't you remind the representatives of the People's Party that you were in Europe trying not to reach Spain and prevent them from arriving in Galicia? Don't deny it to me! [[Applause]] You know it perfectly well. And now in Spain, in Congress, they also tried not to reach Galicia. [[Applause]] So don't talk about who defends the best interests of the Greeks and who works the most to get the resources here for all the Greeks and all the Greeks. You also talk about what you won. He did here a nomination of all the general secretaries of our party and also of the BNG. And I say, you win, of course, and we recognize you won legitimately. But, look: winning doesn't mean they can do what they really want, because we opposition groups also represent an important part of citizenship. And so they should take us into account to implement and adopt certain laws that are of vital importance to change the productive structure of our country, and you don't. Besides, he also talks about being a useful administration for citizenship. [[Applause]] Well, just to be useful to citizenship, you have to take into account all citizenship or at least most citizenship. As a last resort, I insist: we try to have a consensus. What we do not understand is that the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, which initiates this bill that was drafted by the Government, does not initiate a procedure of consensus over time, which they could have done and started last year. They were reminded before a year ago that the global pandemic was declared. They could seek consensus and the participation of economic and social agents, who have a lot to say about what is regulated in this law. They had to take into account the ESC's report, the Legal Counsel's report, dialogue and debate with the Fegamp, pass through the Public Employees' Bureau of Galician Union, count on the Greek universities, which also have a lot to say, and make a public exhibition so that any citizen or citizen on some subject of the issues raised in this law that could make his approach. And finally, they should also count on these opposition groups, that you again and again despise, but that we work for the good of Galician men and women. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u21	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Tellado gave us great advice. The first thing I got left with was that he tells us we don't go out on the street this opposition. I don't know if maybe anyone who doesn't leave the San Caetano ivory tower is the People's Party Parliamentary Group and the People's Party Government. They go to this parliament today, where they have the social response to this law and other steps ahead of you, Mr Tellado. [[Applause]] You think that because we are in circumstances of health restrictions, where, of course, individual and collective responsibility limits certain activities, such as the social response, that implies that the Galician society is automatically anesthetized and mentally confined. But that's not so, Mr. Tellado. And you try to take advantage of these circumstances to implement legal changes that would not dare you in another context. That's why they use this law to make a new wind law; so they use this law to make an amendment to the whole and to the principle of caution and caution and prevalence of environmental interest that arbitrates their own Natural Heritage Law, and so they take advantage of it for other matters. But one thing is that you try and think they're going to be fine, and another thing is that the final outcome is going to be that or that there's no ability in this country to answer these kinds of policies, as they've had to go back to issues like the Bull Mine, in matters like the Pond of Verin and so many other issues, gentlemen of the People's Party. I have to rectify something of my own intervention, because I accused the People's Party of living installed in the 2015 promises, but once again they prove that you live in the Bipartite. They had to bring out the Bipartite here and its long list of excuses not to use the fifteen minutes, as I did, to speak of this legislative text. Mr. Tellado, you've missed the theme of Catalonia. I don't know why they don't want to talk about elections for fifteen days ago in Catalonia. Why would it be? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In any case, they've already tried to do this cartoon of what the Galician Nationalist Block is and its opposition at other times, and it hasn't worked because the citizen knows it's a serious political force and with an alternative project. And that's what we've shown in our hundred and twenty-eight amendments -- that so many gala make of the consensus -- they didn't want to negotiate a single one. Well, yes, they wanted to approve one, which was actually two and that changed one word, so they could say they'd passed a big amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block. But at this point those issues don't work, Mr Tellado. You speak of this legal text as encouraging participation. That's the end of cynicism. You're going to replace the ESC's functions, give the so-called "social dialogue" legal rank, to exclude the most disturbing part of that social dialogue. They talk about dialogue with the municipalities in a law that did not agree with the Fegamp, that the Fegamp stood with a lot of caution on many issues that appear here. You're talking about city councils dialogue when they sink into the imposition of Doing Business Councils, and in extortion to the Greek municipalities that if they don't join, they can't choose issues as games for job promotion. Questions like that. Yes, yes, indeed, he failed to say that in this law some kind of consensus was reached with the German Parliament. At least thank you for not trying to stage here that you're interested in any consensus on this camera. Then you forget that the opposition doesn't do anything about relocation. I don't know if you've been aware that there have been 11 years of government and that there are conflicts in this open country in companies that, if you had an industrial or energy economic model that had been faithful to, for example, the manufacture of components in this country, we wouldn't have those problems. If you had control over the public aid that has doubled sectors of our economy these years, perhaps they wouldn't be using to relocate companies to Portugal. So don't say that when you're saying that later, you're saying no to rational proposals made by this organization, because logically there are some clauses by which if a company uses those public resources to relocate, they can be returned. We do not hide, because we believe in the public sector as an engine of the economy and as a guarantee of a certain set of principles. But of course, what is unacceptable is that you, who have sponsored from the state and from the Galician Union, have also had the opportunity to decapitalize the public sector and from the strategic sectors like energy, come here to show nothing. Because in part in this country we have this situation that we have because of you. And now what? For now they formulate a model that basically seeks to obtain funding from rescue funds instead of bailing out the bank, for now rescue the big companies, and do it in exchange for nothing and without putting any kind of economic, social or environmental conditioning; therefore, of course, we are not in favour of that model, Mr Tellado. And the question is the other way around...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u23	...if in these extreme and unprecedented circumstances of our country you're not going to move an apex of your economic policy, when you're going to do it? If in these circumstances you are set up in a drift of sovereignty and absolutely authoritarian in which you do not want dialogue in this parliament or with the relevant economic and social agents in our country, when you are going to do so? In fact, you said a great truth, today we chose and voted two models:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u25	...or repeat recipes that worsen those applied in 2009, or start another roadmap.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u27	Of course, in the Galician Nationalist Block we have clear where we will be, and it will be aside from an alternative model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u28	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u29	...and a fair, social and galley out of this crisis. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u30	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u31	Thank you. Madam Presas, recognizing the right of everyone to manifest themselves, all we have to say to you is that at the doors of this Parliament is not civil society protesting, are you! You're all yourself. There are those parts of the nationalist holding. [[Applause]] Because, look, get organized, let's warn you that this debate is going to end and then we'll talk about the Forest Plan. Because, on the one hand, there comes a new coordinator, who is called "Galga Coordinator for the Right Distribution of European Funds", who are you, and then comes the Galician Labour Union, who are you. So they change banners, they change t-shirts, and it's you. The proof is that when I register this motion in the municipalities, the Gallega Coordinator for the Right Distribution of the European Funds who register it is the Galician Labour Union. So this is bread. It's the BNG protesting inside and outside. [[Applause]] Don't take people's hair off. BNG throws out his franchises. That's the reality of protesting against something that's good for Galicia. And why? The potato on which they are installed. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, you are negationists. They deny Galicia any chance of recovery, deny Galicia everything. Because they're against the Public Health Act, they're against an Administrative Simplification Act, they're against ourselves managing the European funds that correspond to Galicia, they're against us having a law that allows us to implement new business initiatives and avoid the relocation of businesses. They're against any private initiative. They're against everything. You're a negationist. Galician negationists are called "Galeg Nationalist Block". [[Applause]] To hear the Socialist Party talk about obscurantism must be worth it. Why don't you know that the European Fund Rules have been approved by you? Those who turn the backgrounds into a large opacity set that you approved with Vox. We have adopted this law in Parliament with light and tachographs. Therefore, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, nothing to do with it. [[Applause]] BNG's amendments constitute a whole amendment to this law, because you pursue the opposite objective. You bring in your amendments the law of administrative slowing down of Galicia and the public interventionism of the People's Republic of Galicia. That's your model. You are in another orbit and probably in another century; in the past, no; in the previous, in the 19th. There's the Galician Nationalist Block. The intention of this law is to create a system to accompany, encourage and speed up the implementation of business initiatives. His intention, that of his amendments, is to slow down, hinder and frighten investors from Galicia. So of course we have different models. You have a pathological mistrust of the public sector and you walk backwards towards Galicia's isolation in its national, international, community environment. At the BNG, they walk to the Galician autarchy. Its economic model, as much as bothers them, is identical to that of the franchise of the first years: planned economy, interventionism, national and nationalized companies, excessive regulation, protectionism, isolation. And yet you are also convinced anti-Europeanists, when we need Europe the most. They don't accept that we live in a market economy and that that economy generates wealth and jobs for everyone. Administrative agility by creating a framework of certainty for investors is not contrary to the environmental protection of our heritage; these are not incompatible. You're the defenders of "Come back tomorrow," they think excessive bureaucracy is a guarantee for the administration, because they don't listen to people and because they're not aware of the problems people have in the streets in our country. That's the reality. The law bets to avoid duplication and overlaps in competing procedures, reducing delays in reporting. In its amendments, the BNG bets on a giant public sector, wants to create a Galego Institute of Credit, which at the bottom is the Igape, which already exists and works. This new law, by the way, does not give any role to the Galician Economic and Social Council, nor does it take away any new functions from it. So don't deceive the citizenry because, of course, its posture is unwise and it's not reality. On the amendments of the Socialist Party, we accepted six of their amendments and we reached six other transactions. Anyone would say that part of this law is your authority, and you're going to vote against it. Many of the amendments are subject to amendments tabled by the People's Group, many are repetitive issues. You know that we offer the Socialist Party to sit down to get more transactions if you make the law a law of all. And you know that Gonzalo Caballero didn't want and he didn't. Therefore, if this law was not agreed with the Socialist Party, it was because Gonzalo Caballero is a victim of his own red lines, which is the inability to reach agreements with this chamber's parliamentary group. Do you know what's going on? Which Galicia decided on July 12 doesn't need Gonzalo Caballero or PSdeG-PSOE...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u33	...not the Galician Nationalist Block to get out of this pandemic. We're going to work everywhere to get Galicia to go ahead of the health pandemic, the economic pandemic and the social pandemic. And we can do it together by waving all the shoulders, or the opposition follows theirs, which is to try to get cut permanently and see if you get a handful of votes. But don't they realize that since 2009 the Greeks have told them that this is not the way to make politics?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u35	Don't you realize that the Greeks have decided that this way of doing politics is useless and no use to anyone? We, today, have adopted a Law of administrative simplification and economic reactivation, feeling proud to do so, knowing that we do what we have to do, what Galicia needs. And they can protest within the House or outside the House. They know in their inner forum they're not right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u36	Thank you, Mr. Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u37	You know in your inner forum that you only serve your projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u38	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u39	...party players. And we're here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u40	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u41	...to serve Galicia and its citizenship. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u42	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u43	We are continuing the debate on the Commission's proposal for a regulation 5a. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are maintained. The president of Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, Ms Corina Porro, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u44	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed Law amending Act 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health of Galicia, formulated by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 19 November 2020. His admission to the proceedings was carried out by the Bureau of Parliament at the meeting on 23 November, and at the meeting on 24 November he agreed to be processed by the emergency procedure. Following its consideration at the plenary meeting on 9 December 2020, the deadline for the submission of amendments to the joint resolution was opened, which ended on 29 December 2020, and agreed to be processed by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment. The amendments to the articulation presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of fifty-nine: five of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, twenty-four of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and thirty of the Galician Socialist Group. Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 15 January 2021, designated the report's presentation, consisting of three meetings with the assistance of the rapporteurs and rapporteur Amigo Díaz, Mrs Carreira Pazos and Mr Torrado Quintela, to prepare the report with the final recommendations they issued on 1 February. Subsequently, the Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 11 February, adopted the opinion that the debate and vote should be put to the vote at this plenary meeting, whose text is, in addition to the explanatory statement, a single article divided into twenty-five paragraphs, a transitional provision and a last provision. It is therefore necessary to complete today the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the Proposal for a Law to amend Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on Galician health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Porro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We began with the turn of the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments. Mr Torrido has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Counselor, good morning. The Socialist Party is and must be against this law by full conviction, but also by three fundamentals, which are, from our point of view, unappealable: by rigor, by wisdom and by a convinced and passionate defence of science. And those three criteria inevitably lead to being against this law. I'll try to explain. First of all, by rigor, because this is a legal dislate. An absolute dislate that seeks to regulate constitutional rights by means of an autonomous law. It aims to replace the Congress of Deputies, the Senate of Spain, the state institutions through an autonomous parliament, which is an absolute dislate, and it is a lack of tremendous rigour. In addition, because it intends to introduce health legislation for virtually all the population. Any ointment from a public official's hand can be a health authority and use the forces and security bodies for that. As has already been discussed in this rostrum, this meant to be a sanctioning regulation which has passed from the brake and which has also moved to the law. A sanctioning regulation that could solve some operational issues from day to day, yes, as other communities have done, yes. More moderate, the more modulated this regulation was made to other communities eight months ago: Aragon, Balearic Islands, Andalusia... This law comes too aggressive and a year after the pandemic has begun, because it's a law intended to make a political account and not to solve this problem that we have. [[Applause]] The government, with the president at the front, who said that the state of alarm was devastating in a pandemic, intends to establish a permanent state of emergency, all life, there is pandemic or no pandemic; to live permanently under a state of alarm legislated solely by an autonomous community, without having to go to the courts, without having to ask for validation of certain measures against individual rights, against public freedoms. I'm literally quoting the law. Well, wisely we're against it. Because this is just one of the most conservative and most powerful right-wing tools in history, which is using fear to cut rights. Where are the liberals in the camera? Because here it's very easy to talk about liberalism sometimes, but in the end when we have to legislate we have conservativeism rancio, gray, brown. Use the doctrine of fear, the doctrine of shock. For what? To cut rights. That's where this law goes. Because this law, which talks about very serious issues and which has a dubious legal framework, and its legal framework is more than debatable, and we'll see if if you want to apply it has some possibility because you can jump through the air in a trial, in addition to all that, this law doesn't solve anything. He intends to change into a public health law or an amendment to the law to improve public health. Is he working on the improvement of health care professionals' conditions? No, no, no, no. Will we increase the volume of health professionals? No, no, no, no. Do you plan the need to increase structurally more ICU beds? No, no, no, no. Does it form the need to have some health mechanisms available so that in the event of pandemic situations like ours we are forced to have some resources as a country? No, no, no, no. Do you plan to submit health resources to the order of the Government of Galicia at every moment? No, no, no, no. Do you plan to improve conditions for patients? No, no, no, no. He didn't pose any of that. Do you plan the opportunity to equip and commit more investment in research? No, no, no, no. Does this plan -- which could be a solution -- implement a system for us in Galicia to build personal protective equipment, masks, protective material? No, no, no, no. Do you plan on having and storing a decent minimum stockpiling to be able to cope with a situation like this? No, no, no, no. None of that regulates, nothing. Because this is a camouflage of a health law that doesn't talk about health, no health, except in one thing. This is like Rajoy's stuff: it's all a lie except something. I mean, she doesn't talk about health, except for one thing, that we're going to go to her now. No health. It's a sanctioning regulation, excessive, too ambitious, legally inappropriate. But it's also a way out forward, a run forward to a government that's been cheated with the shapes, very cheaty. Because the Government that represented a lot of reluctance against the alarm state now wants to wash its face. The government that was against all the measures they were working to improve the situation now wants to wash their faces. The government that has done nothing but criticize others and has only added tension to campaign management, now wants to wash its face. And to wash your face do this. Really, let's be sensible: we're convinced that even the Government knows this is nonsense, and they won't use it. It's going to stay in the law because they're going to approve it, they're going to approve it with a five-minute negotiation where no sensible transaction, except one, which was to reduce an amendment from the Socialist Party and nothing more; five minutes! You want to leave in the law something that can implement decisions against rights, against public freedoms. Where are the liberals who talk so much here? When there is no real speaking of freedoms, because from power it's much easier, though more cowardly, to manage the freedoms for others, always for less; some for less. And this is what happens to this law, which is not going to be used because it's nonsense and because it doesn't treat anything about the pandemic, except one thing: compulsory vaccination. We do not agree with compulsory vaccination, but we ask ourselves: which committee has validated it?, which clinical committee supports compulsory vaccination?, what scientific society? Because the Spanish Society of Vaccinology, no; the virologists of this country, neither; the microbiologists of the country, neither. Which scientific societies validate compulsory vaccination? Because they're a little more operational: what governments validate compulsory vaccination? Roberto Speranza, Italian Health Minister -- what a nice thing it is to be called "Hope" as a health minister in the face of a pandemic! -- : "We believe in the need to reach the immunity of cattle through persuasion and conviction. We will never use compulsory vaccination." Boris Johnson: "It's not in our culture to use compulsory vaccination. That's why we won't implement it." Angela Merkel: "I want to be very clear with my population. We will not implement compulsory vaccination." Enmanuel Macron: "We aspire to a transparent, clean process, but never with the obligation of the vaccine. We believe in the collective conception." Merkel, Macron, Boris Johnson aren't dangerous prosovietics, they're not reckless negationists, they're governments that make decisions thinking about what to think about: science. Because those of us who are convinced of science don't need to force. [[Applause]] Because this is what defines vaccines. Because, besides, you don't have to have to vaccinate. Spain and Galicia have the best vaccination rates in the world, and we don't force any vaccines. Better than some countries than children do some. If we don't have a problem with vaccination, if there isn't a problem with anti-virgins in Spain, because there isn't, unless they feed it from the extreme, if there isn't a problem with anti-vaccination, which doesn't exist, because we have good rates and vaccination is good, why should we force it to vaccinate, against the whole political criterion and against any scientific criterion? Tell me a government in the world to legislate to force the vaccine, tell me one. What's more like to you, and it's not enough yet, it's Brazil. If this is your model of government, it's not our model. There's no government in the world that makes it, at least in the Western world. They call it "first world" but they include Latin America, which for some is not the first world, for us. Except Brazil, which isn't even this, there's no government to do this. Why? Because in other governments they don't have to make such dangerous laws to save a president's face that does nothing but make tensions. That's the problem. [[Applause]] But in addition, science defends other things. I had the opportunity to say it here two months ago when we worked on taking into consideration -- we warned it -- and I had the opportunity to say it -- it was even spoken of social psychology, and how they understand it's an area that I like -- forcing to vaccinate is the firmest step to encourage negationism. And then they're lying to him. Because the negationists, who are irreprehensible, who are naive, who are ignorant and who are mostly idiots, put lives in danger. And we don't want them in front of us, we want to nude them with arguments, not impose them. Because if you generate a trench, which is what this law is doing, it automatically appears a trench in front. If this is very clear, there's no more to throw a stone to give you back. We have to disassemble with arguments, we have to be conscious and work in consciousness. This is politics. We're against the negationists. By the way, they put lives in danger, very seriously. As well, with much ignorance he put some negationist in danger lives with the environment; like that cousin of Rajoy, also a negationist, an irredent, an ignorant and an idiot. [[Applause]] Negationism makes us in trouble. Why do they feed him? Because he's building the story. Force is the best way to create a counter move. If we can raise our conscience, why are we going to make it? If it's not necessary, if there's no scientific validation, if nothing says it's going to work better. Force is the cowardly government tool. Where should we be? Where should we be? We should be campaigning together, and we would all be in the hands of this government. Why? Because we have a serious problem ahead. And we would all go hand in hand, but not just politicians, but journalists, sportsmen, writers, musicians, health professionals, teachers, all of us, doing a vaccination campaign, as they are obviously doing in England, as are politicians and journalists in France, as they are doing in Italy. Despite the unrest in which they live, they're still working on this better than in Galicia, because they're doing it with social leaders. And where are we here, what are we doing? Implement mandatory vaccination. Yes, there's a contribution that has made this government, which, moreover, is perverse, and must be said. Do you know who is contributing much to spreading the goodness of the vaccine without needing to force it? The mayor of Boimorto and the boss of Domus Vi. Because if they used their influence, which is corruption, to put it on, good will be! [[Applause]] That's what many people think out there, and that's true. Now, we ask them not to use that mechanism, because if they're not going to say that to defend the vaccine they're going to start pulling everybody, and not. The best thing is to work on consciousness. The vaccine is a common success, collective, of no one, it has no marks, it has no logos. It's a success of science, we defended it. You have to be too little convinced to have to force her. We are not going to support compulsory vaccination because we are convinced of his goodness. There's no need to generate a trench where there's no war, because it's the best way to get an enemy to show up. An enemy who, moreover, has no grounds, has no reason, and works without rigor and no matter the lives of others. Why do we want to feed that enemy? For what? To build the story? To be able to say that the one in front is bad and that's why I have to support myself, as some have said lately? For that ridiculous argument which impoverishs parliamentary democracy that some of us coke with negationism? You don't tell me to flirt with nobody's negationism. Because I'm not going to say I'm more than anyone, but I'm going to say backwards: there's no more conviction in science in this parliament than anyone here is talking, nobody. You must be very devious and very lame, and have very few arguments to defend this law by saying something else, because the negationists you've fed are out there making the government fat broth. If you need those tools, you'll need them for this trip! We have a convinced society, and we must believe that this society is convinced of the goodness of science; much more than this government by what we see. Society will respond to deep awareness. There are legal mechanisms to solve exceptional situations; they have already been used, in Galicia too, a few weeks ago. To get into other debates that only they do is feed a problem? Not at all. So we, by rigor, by wisdom and by the full conviction of science, which seems to have no government, cannot support this law. And besides, because we believe that this solution will come out with science in hand and with wisdom and rigour. That's why we deny the extremes. You're creating unnecessary polarization, unnecessary war, which will only bring problems, because in wars nobody wins. And between the intolerance of those who protest and the absolutisms, we, rigour. Between the ignorance that causes problems and can kill lives and the totalitarianism of this law, we, with wisdom. Between negationism and imposition, we, with science. This government is losing a golden opportunity to walk together in defense of something that is a collective success. Why do they need to generate a problem where there is no problem? Why do you need to use this to introduce a rights restriction problem? Because, in the end, you like it because it says it's about public health, but you love this law because it restricts rights, because it generates trenches and because what it does is to provoke a confrontation that was unnecessary, and they're playing with something quite dangerous. That's why it's impossible since rigor, wisdom and science to be in favour of this law, because if we're not evaluating something we don't share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u47	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Iria Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all and all. It seems that we have reached the end of the parliamentary debate on this draft reform of the Galician Health Act. A project on which the BNG has already made clear its position, both in the debate of consideration and in its debate in Commission 5th, as well as outside these walls. A legislative reform of which throughout its course through this chamber did not end up being clear of its origin; it is not well known whether it comes from the People's Parliamentary Group or whether this group is merely acting as a spokesperson for the Union. A Board of Galicia which has been announcing this reform since almost the beginning of the pandemic, which has even been taken to the Council of Galicia, more than at the time of truth, the text is recorded in this chamber by the Popular Group. Log that is done in November 2020 by the emergency procedure, when the pandemic can consider that it started in March and when there were months and months to develop it. Since the BNG we believe that this confusion between the Government of Galicia and the People's Party's Parliamentary Group is not random; rather, it is a way that exists to dodge legal reports or also to ignore recommendations. Reports such as the gender impact report drawn up by the General Secretariat of Equality, which clearly points out the consequences that this legislative reform may have, which includes in addition to the penalties provided for which another ancillary sanction may also be imposed, which prohibits the receipt of any kind of aid or subsidies from the public administration for a period of between one and five years. I read the report of this secretariat: "It is possible that if a person is imposed as a sanction to access the prohibition of receiving any kind of aid or subsidies and after this imposition acquires the condition of a victim of gender-based violence, this person may be deprived of the possibility of opting for aid for victims of gender-based violence, some of which have the purpose of facilitating the victim's economic independence or housing resource that allows him to end his relationship with the aggressor and to break the situation of violence he is suffering, also ensuring his safety." How is it possible that they intend to adopt a legislative reform that leaves this void for women who are in a situation of ill-treatment? Each one here with his conscience, because, in the end, he put on a purple tie at no cost. A legislative reform of so great silence which is intended to be adopted is still fully immersed in the pandemic, when even last week the first measures have been taken to alleviate the restrictions of this third wave, which leaves behind frightening figures, in the midst of a health crisis where we have not only the pathology that SARS-CoV-2 brings with it, but we also have other important fronts to pay attention to, such as the increase in morbidity and mortality due to non-covid pathology and the deterioration of mental health. With the population of Galicia also immersed in a serious economic and labor situation, many of the Galicians are currently not working because they are in an ERTE, or because they are directly unemployed, or with an overview like the self-employed, to which they find it more difficult to keep their business open every day. It seems like a maneuver to take advantage of the state of shock of society to pass this law. A reform of the Health Act to which it takes time to invoke proper tools for dealing with the pandemic, the biggest health pandemic that we face today. Interestingly, what is being put on the table is not health measures, they are a series of measures of a purely restrictive and punitive nature. No measures are taken to strengthen the health system, no more professional recruitment is envisaged, no more material resources are provided, nor is there any provision for redistribution of the health system by taking advantage of the lessons left to cover-19 to be prepared in case of another similar crisis. Lessons that were costly enough, that suggested deaths and very important consequences, both at health and at social level, but that the People's Party would rather obviate rather than learn from them. This reform comes to provide a legislative body with the accusation and guilt of the Greek people of the development and evolution of the pandemic. The focus is on individual responsibility rather than on collective responsibility, and above all on the one with the Government itself, for who is at the front. It focuses on possible individual breaches, on conduct that we have seen during this year that they are completely marginal and timely, rather than central to the government's responsibility to maintain and adequately equip the health system, social services, education and administrations, nor does it focus on the social and economic investment that is being or is not being carried out. With yesterday's data, there were one hundred and forty-six Welsh people hospitalized in intensive care, not in ICU, because ICUs have been full for weeks. When we take over two thousand people dead, it turns out that the legislative reform that the People's Party brings to put a stop to this pandemic does not really bring health measures. And the saddest is this when the behaviour of the people of Greece this year is being exemplary, both in the adoption of the measures established and in the continued work to overcome us collectively in this pandemic. As I said, an amendment to the law that is a constant veil of suspicion. We're talking about the abolition or limitation of fundamental rights of the Greeks, without imposing the clear and precise time limit, beyond the time required. It's a matter of believing health authorities to a point that could almost be ridiculous if we weren't talking about such a serious issue. Health authorities which have the power to require the identification of persons or the issuing of orders of obligation to comply. Measures -- as I say -- that limit the rights of the population. On the other hand, the obligation to render accounts by the Government to this chamber is not envisaged, or even if they can start without having to follow a specific administrative procedure, or when there is still scientific uncertainty. It is also considered mandatory to perform treatments, to undergo diagnostic tests or to apply profiling measures, such as vaccinations when considered. As if this were the real problem and the main problem of health in this country! The Greek population doesn't show a lack of confidence in health care personnel, rather the opposite, nor does it show a lack of confidence in vaccination. The percentage of the vaccination in Galicia is very high, and it shows the rates of childhood vaccination, for example. The Greek people believe in science and the enormous advance that vaccines involve. The real problem with the Greek people isn't that you don't want to vaccinate, it's that you can't, just as it happened a few months ago when people were sent to their homes because there weren't enough flu vaccines to meet the real demand. [[Applause]] The real problem is not the denialist speech given to the People's Party itself by the political approach of this law, but the lack of staff, the overload of work, the lack of time to care adequately for patients and, of course, the lack of vaccines. It's not that people don't want to vaccinate, that there are no vaccines to put on. [[Applause]] They impose and oblige, but on the contrary, they do not take any measures to increase the population's health education; they infantilize it again when they dictate the rules, but do not provide any tools that are real and that are necessary to increase the scientific knowledge of the Galicians. And as they talk about this mandatory vaccination, what will they do with the messages coming out of Sergas that question the effectiveness of these vaccines, which are true scientific aberrations? Because they didn't hesitate to stop a head of service when at the beginning of the pandemic they asked for protection measures for health personnel, when the message given to professionals was that the mask should not be used all the time because it created a social alarm. And are we now going to take action or are we going to allow Sergas himself to send scientific messages and that can contribute -- this time yes -- to create a social alarm? [[Applause]] These are the instruments presented by the People's Party to fight against the pandemic: restrictions and sanctions. But there is no mention of increasing the population's health education, strengthening the health system, providing sufficient professionals and adequate means to intervene in the residences of the elderly and persons with disabilities. For this, no measures are envisaged! And all of this is collected in a reform that is supposed to solve the evasives that have been detected in the field of public health. Interestingly, at no time is it spoken in the text set of strengthening these services. Since the BNG we believe this must be one of the key aspects: strengthening the public health service through the creation of an organism that potentiates epidemiological monitoring networks. An agency with management capacity, with its own structures and human and material resources, which has communication and coordination systems with the rest of the public health system areas. A coordination that must also be particularly careful with primary care, in order to develop measures to promote, protect health and prevent disease. This pandemic came to show us multiple evidences that were already evident from before, but that now the sound still fits even more. The need for a public tracking system as a fundamental tool to detect the emergence of germs of infectious-contamination pathologies, and to be able to shorten them as before, interrupting the transmission chain, which in the same way can control the isolation of confirmed cases and carry out the follow-up of contacts. A tracking system that is agile and that is resolute, capable of being expanded if the circumstances so required. Another evidence that brought us the pandemic is that we need a robust health system, and in the case of primary care, as the main axis of this system, even more so. We are now seeing how primary care is, on the other hand, suffocated, supporting the attention of infected patients and their daily follow-up, the request and the carrying out of diagnostic tests to suspected patients, a good part of the tracking of each of them's contacts, and adding all this to the ordinary attention of all non-covid pathology. If there is a teaching that must be clear about primary care after this pandemic, it is that for primary care to work, it depends on the rest. As long as we don't have well-equipped, resolvative primary care, with ability, with means, with resources, with professionals, the health system won't be able to be solid, for a lot of the latest generation diagnostic apparatus that we can put into a hospital basement. [[Applause]] And if something is seen now in a remarkable way with the arrival of vaccines, it's the importance of science and research to be able to move forward as a society. We believe that this reform of the Health Act should also be the opportunity to create a public health research system. We have excellent researchers in this country, who are developing lines of research that are leading in the international scientific landscape and who are surviving under outrageous working conditions. Working conditions that often end up being decisive, and that either push them to migrate and develop their research outside the country, with the loss of all that talent, or directly the furniture of the researcher's work and pour them out to seek other labor opportunities, once again losing so much talent and so much potential. [[Applause]] We propose that a public health research system be created, which integrates all personnel who are part of Galicia's three biomedical foundations, with the aim of promoting research, teaching, innovation and scientific-technological development. This should allow for synergies between clinical personnel and investigators, which are essential for the generation of knowledge. In short, from BNG, what we think is a serious mistake is to focus on a public health problem as if it were a public policy problem. The same way that trying to put a screw with a hammer makes no more sense or more logical than wasting time and ruining the material, trying to fight a pandemic, infectious disease, by means of sanctioning and fineing, it makes no more sense than avoiding the responsibility to care for the health system. That's why we are presenting our amendments, in the spirit of adding tools that have been demonstrated to shorten a health crisis, such as the reinforcement of the health system itself, with more means and more professionals. To cure pneumonia we don't need fines, we need staff to work on their diagnosis and treatments to be able to apply them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u50	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. I want to begin my intervention by wishing our companion Montse Prado's prompt recovery, who has been recovering from the 19th century. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is an important day with the adoption of this reform of the law that so much algorithm is raising, that what it does is to come with guarantees and act with responsibility. Since the beginning of the pandemic, it has been observed that our health policy framework was not prepared to deal with such a long and widespread pandemic in our society. In view of the serious pandemic situation in which we live, a law is necessary. The President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, committed himself in summer to reforming the organic health law, and so the Congress recommended it in the conclusions of the Commission for Social and Economic Reconstruction. On 20 May 2020 we heard President Sánchez, in his speech at the Congress of Deputies, in Madrid, asking for the fifth extension of the state of alarm, decreed on 14 March, these words, which I will try to read to them in a textual way: "What we will do, ladies and gentlemen, is plan. What we will do, ladies and gentlemen, is start to analyze and discuss with all of you and negotiate the modification of various laws to ensure proper governance once we have lifted the alarm state." Of course we're still in the alarm state, and nothing's been done! And then there was a sixth extension, after which the Government of the nation released the single command and passed responsibility to the autonomous communities. These promised reforms have never arrived. Those reforms that would offer the autonomous clear and necessary legal instruments to be able to regulate and limit what an administration can do during a health crisis, ladies and gentlemen, we are still waiting for them. The Union is not doing anything that is not planned in general terms in state law. By Organic Law 3/1986, of special measures in the field of public health, autonomous communities can already adopt restrictive measures of rights to protect public health, including perimetric confinement and home confinement. And on the other hand, the State of Alarm Law is transmitted to health laws, so the state of alarm does not specify the actions that must be carried out by autonomous communities. Indeed, the state of alarm limits the possible actions of the communities. Let us set an example of what happened to ourselves in Galicia, or to other autonomous communities of different colors, as could be Asturias or Castile-A Mancha, who wanted to reduce these hours, and they could not. It must also be borne in mind that the Public Health Act, Organic Law 3/1986, is very generic and unsecured. For this reason, to require more balanced actions and actions in cases of pandemics, European Union neighbouring states, such as Portugal, France too, Mr. Torrado, and Germany have changed their health laws. And so it happens that autonomous communities are acting without limits or legal conditions, except for the state of alarm. And look at what happened recently in the Basque Country, where we all knew that with the ruling of the Supreme Court of Justice in recent statements, when they dropped what Urkullu said, for lack of legal certainty because this couldn't happen. Other communities too, like Aragon, are acting by decree. And yet no one talks about the state of permanent alarm where we are. Without going so far in my province, Mr. Torrado, all that you have said here has to tell the president of the Lugo Deputy, who rules jointly with the BNG. You know that recently there was a problem with a vaccine in a Ribadeo residence, and the deputy president, Mr. Tomé, transferred the fact to the Prosecutor's Office, with the aim of promoting the relevant judicial actions. And the mayor of Ribadeo publicly stated that the board of Galicia promotes the necessary adaptation for public health to prevail over individual selfish and negationist positions and make vaccination compulsory in residences. So, of course, all those things have to talk to you. You don't need to be a lawyer to know that by law the arbitrariness of governments is better restricted than by regulation. By law better than in the absence of a regulatory framework, because by law we also facilitate judicial review. And, Mr. Torrado, although you probably won't understand this after making sure yesterday that to pass an organic law you have to count with a majority of the two-thirds, after ensuring that -- it's written -- we can expect anything from you. Your Honor, what we're doing in Galicia is guaranteeing an act by the Board of Representatives provided to the pandemic situation by law, just the opposite of what you say. We restrict the exercise of power, not now, which is left at the forefront of the authorities. This is a law that, far from being authoritarian, what it does is to regulate and put limits on what an administration can do during a health crisis and ensure decent assistance to the infected. What is not guaranteed, ladies and gentlemen, and could end up being authoritarian, is to act without more control than the concise 1986 Law on special public health measures and that judges have no more criteria to interpret and endorse these measures. This law develops when and how many measures can be implemented that have already been implemented during this health crisis, thus giving greater legal security to the administrations and the courts. This bill has clear and concrete objectives, which are none other than to cover the lagoons and gaps of the current legislation that exist to fight the pandemic better; a completely new and unpredictable health situation for the whole world. There are months or years left for the health, economic and social recovery derived from this pandemic, with consequences yet to be determined, too much pain in our society. And in view of these facts, it is necessary to give legal certainty both to the administrations and to the administrations. The reform of the Autonomous Health Act that we will vote here today is a responsibility, it is necessary and also complies with Recommendation 5th of the Congressional Social and Economic Reconstruction Commission -- which approved it with the vote of the parties represented here in its health -- in which it was urged to update the national and autonomous health legislation, giving priority to those who would be directed against a possible second pandemic outbreak. And, ladies, we're already on the third! By the way, Mr. Torrado, I reiterate to you the confusion that always shows with the vote of the People's Party on the Congressional Reconstruction Commission. The PP voted yes to the health proposals, after some amendments were accepted. Don't deny it. And the PSOE of Madrid expressed its appreciation because there was consensus in health matters. Look, he's talking about fear. Fear is what you're trying to teach people. Well, this saying of what I was talking about before also says that self-health laws are reformed, which is what we are doing and what we bring here to Parliament today. But what is clear is that both PSOE and BNG have already come with the negative under their arm since minute one. They lie and both parties go astray. We, in the face of improvisation, uncertainty and disparity of legal criteria, believe that regulation by law guarantees the automatism of responses, reduces uncertainties in administrations about what administration can and in what circumstances it does, and allows a more homogeneous interpretation by the courts of proportionality and adequacy of the provisions that the health authority adopts. What you're doing is defending Sanchez's inaction. This law, ladies and gentlemen, gives them evidence. Junta is not doing anything that's not planned in general terms in state law, nothing that's not being done but with legal insecurity. Nothing, therefore, that goes against the prevailing legislation, which is imprecise in many cases, as has been demonstrated. It is precisely this bill that makes it the first thing to define which authorities exercise health authority in the event of a pandemic. It establishes and defines who is the health authority, which includes from the Board of Trustees, the person who holds the Health Council, persons who holds the inspection of services and public health, holders of the territorial health offices and mayors and mayors. He's not talking about health, he's not talking about health. I recommend that they read the law again, because it also lists measures that may be adopted by these health authorities, ranging from seizure and immobilization of products in the event of pandemics, something that is provided in the state of alarm but not in the Welsh Health Act, or measures of any kind: delimitation of capacity, security measures and hygiene in certain places or activities, self-protection measures or intervention in social services centres, or the provision of data necessary for the control and containment of risks to public health. And it also includes preventive measures of recognition, treatment, hospitalization or control when there is supposed to be a danger to the health of the population or to a person or group of people. House isolation is also provided at home, in a hospital or in an internment such as a hotel, or the submission to quarantiners at home or elsewhere appropriate for the sick. And this isn't about health, no, it's not about health. The intervention of social services centres is also envisaged, as soon as it has been found that it is an essential measure for the protection of public health, especially for older persons and people with disabilities. As far as safeguards for the protection of the rights of citizenship are concerned, of course, absolute limits are imposed on respect for the dignity of the person, and provides for a number of rules of action, such as on which they must be as intrusive and invasive as possible in order to achieve the objective of public health. But it is also expected that they will be temporary, be transparent and be motivated in accordance with three rules: the suitability, necessity and proportionality of the adopted standard. And finally, other issues are also included, such as those that pay particular attention to new technologies, such as the mechanism of information, prevention, detection and monitoring of diseases. And I'm not going to talk about the Telea platform, which I've talked about many times here, and we know that it allowed a trace of the important pandemic for having this system included in our Greek health system. There is also a need for cooperation between the Government of Greece and the municipalities in a way that information should be provided and the necessary cooperation should be given to each other. And finally, the sanctioning regime will be clarified; a clearer and more complete sanctioning regime, which prevents rules from being met, because, among other things -- despite the imposition of sanctions -- these are not being effective. We present five amendments that talk about health, that talk about health. And Amendment No. 1 is where you were not in agreement to establish prohibitions, limitations and prevention strategies on the consumption of alcoholic beverages to advance in the denormalization of their consumption by minors. Number 2, which refers to the Welsh Health Strategy and its sectoral and territorial development instruments. We still don't talk about health, do we? This accounts for a programming with a multi-year strategic document for the comprehensive development of the Welsh health policy. Amendment No 3, which speaks of changes in the field of public health. The first is to take up specifically the important role that working groups can play in relation to counselling in the management of health crises and in taking appropriate preventive measures. And a second one focuses on the recommendations of the Committee on Social and Economic Reconstruction of the Congress of Deputies. Amendment No 4, which speaks of the need to ensure comprehensive strategic planning of the Welsh health policy. For this purpose, the Welsh Health Strategy is created as an integrative instrument. This isn't about health for you. And one last amendment, which refers to epidemiological surveillance. Finally, I would like to remind you that one of the main purposes of this law is to implement measures which, in the light of the official and organic state health legislation, can be adopted by the Greek health authorities for the protection of public health, as well as to regulate the requirements they must meet for their proper adoption, with particular attention to the demands of motivation and proportionality. We listen to everything here, until there are no legal reports. Ladies and gentlemen, this Health Act, which regulates rights, fulfils all legal guarantees. You've previously consulted -- as it corresponds -- with the legal advisers; for that they are. But, well, let's hear here that it seems that PP is also responsible for the lack of vaccines. Of course, Mr. Torrado, if the Central Government had complied with the reform of the Health Act, we wouldn't be here today in this debate. This law has had an emergency processing and is an exercise of responsibility. You're surprised to hear that this law, which is going by law as if you're exercising rights, you say it's authoritarian. Nothing further from reality; it's not authoritarian, it's guaranteed. They can't lie to the evidence. They say it's unilateral, and we're debating it here in this parliament. I call them responsibility. Since the People's Party we have acted consistently and with responsibility, presenting this bill that we will pass today and that will allow us to give more guarantees, to regulate and to put limits on what an administration can do during a health crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u52	In his hand is to support us or not. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The turn of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u54	Thank you, President. A small legal nonsense must be this law for which argument was that the mayor of Ribadeo said I don't know or that the president of the Lugo Deputy, to shoot Pedro Sánchez -- why not? --, to tell me that I don't know myself and that I don't learn, to recognize that the law recognizes the dignity of people -- less bad! - and that is transparent because we are debating in Parliament, which, as far as I know, to amend a law we must debate it in Parliament, as far as I know! Whether it is transparent to comply with the rules, which obviously has to comply with the procedure. The one of the juridical advisers didn't make it clear to me, because the president said they consulted him with the judicial advisers of the Galician Council, and presented it to the parliamentary group, so... well, we're not going to go deep into that, to dig in there; it's not gonna be that we're talking about something else. But, finally, they'll be left for another story. [[Applause]] Yes, this law has a legal framework problem, it's subverting the state's legal order, because it deals with matters that must be changed by an organic law or by a qualified majority, to change the Constitution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Puy is not in the debate, he has been in the previous one, in the taking into consideration; he must not have been very happy about what he said, that he does not intervene today but wants to speak now from there. Now it must be the thing you didn't like. Look at that legal dislate must be that you don't want to intervene anymore but you want to talk from the scene! Well, see if they agree at least on who's going to talk, that I have no problem, I'm delighted, but at least agree who's going to come to the debate. [[Applause]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. Puy, because they kept me in the debate and not you. This question we're dealing with is obviously a nonsense and it's a runaway forward. If you don't mind, Mr. Puy, please keep the order a little, that you are a serious and formal Member. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you'll allow us to talk to others. I know that with this law they won't want to let us talk, but at least until it's approved they'll leave us if they don't care. My friend, you didn't tell me anything about compulsory vaccination. Why didn't you tell me anything about any example of any country that imposes it on you? Why? Because there's no one, Counselor, no one! How do you value what they say about compulsory vaccinations and awareness of the rulers of Europe in which we live? You've dedicated yourself to shooting at Pedro Sánchez, who if the vaccines, and devoted himself to talking about other things, but you haven't commented anything about what the only thing that's working on a similar law is Bolsonaro. Of course, this is the problem, Mrs. Friend. That you came here to transfer a debate that has to do with exactly what we said had to do with this law, not with health, with the story. The damn account: that if Pedro Sánchez is very bad, that if the law doesn't know that... look, if you want to propose this law in Parliament, in the Congress of Deputies, they have Members there. But, of course, they've already done it, and they've been left alone. And it shouldn't have been very good because no one supported it. So they've done that job. And just as you ask for legitimacy for most of your people here, who have it, ask for legitimacy for Congress of Deputies. I know they don't like what's going on in Madrid either, and I'm not talking about the rest of the parties. But, well, if you put them on! At least they argue that their parliamentary group in Madrid can make proposals; they have made them, they are evil, and no one has supported them. Well, that's what there is, Mrs. Friend. Now, tell me you can't make decisions with the legislation we have. Or don't we leave the first wave? Or didn't we get out of the second? And I'm quoting textually the words of this government. Well, then, we don't need it, we don't need to force it. What's needed to fight the pandemic is science, vaccines and health personnel, and not fines, sanctions or threats. It's just that this is the question. You're legislating to have more authoritarian power, because in times of fear and uncertainty on the right, you try to reduce citizenship rights and stay with more power, because that's what they like to do. They find the opportunity to legislate in hot weather, always. When there's a serious problem, you're applying your marketing machine to try to try to legislate hot to reduce rights, always, systematically. And what we say is that this is very bad for democracy, it's rancio and it's caspose; it's the most conservative right, that of all time. Compulsory vaccination is how you want to solve traffic problems by banning cars. But you didn't talk about it. Some question must have to not want to talk about it or to talk about it later in the replica so that there is no replica shift. How much you like transparency that you don't want to discuss a very serious problem! By the way, and I ask you again: what scientific societies are?, what clinical committees?, what professionals? I suppose it won't be Ourense's, that you don't want to talk about him on the basis of freedom of expression, they say. Yes, Vigo's chief of staff dismissed her from office, but Ourense's will have to protect her, it's not going to be someone's friend. You're talking about something that doesn't fit, because it's not health, you've come here to talk about the bad Pedro Sánchez, whether the president of the Lugo deputy or the mayor of the town who doesn't know where. We're talking about a law that talks about rights, about cuts in public freedoms, about compulsory vaccination, which is something no country in the world is doing right now. And you come here to the damn story. Because it's only about the story and building something that allows them to look like they're doing things, and let them say that Mr. Feijóo is very good because he wants to face someone. And there's no eating or solving the pandemic. Science, vaccines and personnel, and there we are all. And if they want to get out, it's a shame, because it's the Government of all, and it's the Government of Galicia too that's going to get us out of this problem. We hope that they can do it with science, with vaccines and personnel, and not with sanctions and prohibitions, that it doesn't get out of the pandemic like this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. What is clear after all the parliamentary debate on this proposal is that the will for dialogue and agreement is null and void. To make the debates that are preceptive to the adoption of this reform go through dialogues is a joke that -- let me -- is not funny at all. [[Applause]] One example of this lack of will is that they do not even heed the recommendations made to them from their own government, nor are they willing to accept any of the amendments made by the opposition. Well, I'm sorry, they did accept one, Amendment No. 24 to the Galician Nationalist Block: to review the sexist language of the bill text. An amendment that is very important -- don't misunderstand me -- because language is fundamental, and legislative texts have to show a deep respect in this sense. But it's also true that this is an amendment that we shouldn't even have to present to remember that legislation, and more in the 21st century, must count on an inclusive and non-sexist language. You'd only have to vote against this amendment as well! [[Applause]] Now, what I was saying is it's a joke that this is the only amendment that they're willing to accept. Our amendments call for reinforcements for public health. We're talking about the fact that the professional groups estimate that in Galicia all six hundred thousand consultations were conducted less, twenty thousand diagnostic tests less, three thousand surgical interventions less. In fact, the scientific community is alerting to the serious prejudices that delay in diagnosis and treatment are, for example, assuming for cancer patients, which causes serious health and emotional and social harm. Where are the reforms to deal with this situation? The health system of this country needs a profound and determined reform to strengthen public health and, in this way, the health of the population of Galicia. What we don't need neither the Galicians nor the sanity is that they laugh at us. And when the arguments fail, the simplest thing is to caricature it is to try to ridicule the opposition and make it appear to be a negationist or an anti-scientific, when you know perfectly well that this is not the position of this parliamentary group. And I will end by adding myself to the wishes of prompt recovery which Mrs. Friend made so that Montse Prado can rejoin himself as soon as possible to his usual work and be able to intervene from this rostrum. I don't want to put words in her mouth before me or pretend to put words in her mouth, but I think that after this long journey she's suffering, like many other cowardly patients, she can give them first-hand account of the fatigue and saturation of the professionals or of the perfectly well-functioning public tracking system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u57	Good day again. Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Carreira, you and I know perfectly how it happens in hospitals, because we're both health professionals, and we know perfectly well what life is like in this pandemic. And I specifically had it covered in the first wave, in March, I also know of these things, of all the disorders that bring this disease. I finished my first intervention asking for responsibility. Clearly, one cannot ask someone who doesn't have it; they have no responsibility despite the evidence. Since we started the procedure for the approval of the amendment of the Health Law in this plenary on December 9th, some things have happened. In that debate, Mr. Torrado literally stated -- as is stated in the Journal of Sessions -- that "the proposal was the result of a certain Bolivarian delirium of Mr. Feijóo." Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, don't be confused: the Bolivarian deliriums seem closer to the characters of their surroundings and to those of you. Look at him! Shortly thereafter, the House's citizen participation portal was devastated by writings promoted by anti-active negationists as such a "Pablo", which claimed that no one would lay his hand on him or his family to vaccinate him and that he wondered if Feijó was closer to the Bolivarian or socialist dictatorships. Remarkable coincidence. In that debate, Mr. Torrado, and today I repeat it with little, I would say to you, Mr. Torrado, that in that debate, and today I repeat it with little legal rigor, I proposed that sanctions be collected in a regulation, as if a regulation were more guaranteed than the law, when it is just the opposite, as some autonomous communities have done. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I would ask you, Mr. Torrado, two questions: is it less authoritarian than a regulation than a law? [[Murmurs.]] And the second question is, you say one thing and then you say the opposite, you say we're late for the law and then you say we're in hot law. You have to clear up a little! [[Applause]] Interestingly, you have forgotten to mention what Mr. Lambán's socialist government in Aragon, after seeing its confinement measures suspended by justice, has approved a confinement of certain places by decree-law, that is, by a singular law, to override judicial control. And in that first debate on December 9, as in today's debate, the opposition also criticized the alleged compulsory use of vaccines. We must read and understand. In this bill there is only one "power in very specific circumstances". And within his criticisms he also speaks repeatedly about scientific uncertainty. I also remind you to read the Official Gazette of State No. 250 of 5 November 2011, where you will see that this consideration is taken from the definition of precautionary principle that makes the General Public Health Act, adopted in 2011, precisely by a socialist government. He also recalled in the previous intervention what happened, which I repeat: speak to the president of the Lugo Parliament, speak to the mayor of Ribadeo, seeing that they say of that "can in very concrete circumstances to vaccinate"; they talk to them. Of course, the socialist and nationalist opposition in that debate denied the need for a law to regulate and restrict the actions of public authorities in the event of a pandemic, to combat it effectively and save lives, and to guarantee better individual rights, including the right to health protection, by ensuring decent assistance to the infected. However, on February 14, the president of a coalition government of nationalist and socialist, much more responsible, had concluded an article in the press saying that "we exhaust all the legal tools available for decision-making (...) and we continue to ask for new tools to always act with all legal guarantees and, if so, we consider the alternative of approving a Basque anti-pandemic law." I'm referring to President Urkullu. But today's opposition persists in its qualifications so close to the anti-active and negationist collectives. You'd better tell them which side you're on, position yourself! to agree on your messages with your mayors and the presidents of the deputies. And, ladies and gentlemen, they responsibly recognize that this law comes to cover a legal void that existed in our country. A legal vacuum that the President of the Government has committed to covering up last summer, to soon dissipate, and that Congress recommended, and then to go back. We fulfill our responsibility and equip Galicia with this rule of a guaranteed legal instrument for the rights of citizens and effective so that this government and any other government that might succeed it can effectively fight against a pandemic like the one that is causing so much pain to so many families on our land. And if there are hundreds of writings against it. I don't know if they've had the chance to read them and see the tray of lies, aberrations and barbarities that some people manifest. And I've already told you in Commission 5th, when we discuss the law, that I hope you're not in favor of as many barbarities as we read and listen to the demonstration that last Saturday took place here in Compostela. I would understand that we would not be voted in favour of the law, but I would also understand that they would stand by our side against all those opinions of all those negationists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u59	And, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget the thousands of people who support this change of law; among them, some of them, like those I have just mentioned, and also some member of the judiciary, as some recently expressed it in an interview, which legally says that this pandemic is a real chaos and sees a need for reform, setting example what Portugal did in the second wave or what happened in Germany right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Friend, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u61	I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we wanted to deal with several amendments with you, but you were from the beginning against reaching the agreement. You'd rather go against it, too!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u63	I'm sorry, because it's a reform that's determined by a pandemic state, where it's necessary to legislate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u64	Thanks, time's up. Thank you. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u65	We continue with the debate of the 1st Commission dictation. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are maintained. The president of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, José Manuel Rey Varela, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u66	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia was entered into Parliament's Register on 1 October 2020 with register number 2794. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting of 6 October 2020, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 24 October and 10 November 2020 for amendments to the whole and the articulated, respectively. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to attend by the First Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs Commission. The amendments to the whole and the amendments to the articulated were qualified by the Bureau at the meetings of 26 October and 26 November 2020 and published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia Nos 39 and 54, 2 November and 27 November respectively. There are two amendments to the whole, of return, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, and seventy-two amendments to the joint, of which fifty-three are of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. At the plenary meeting on 24 November 2020, the two amendments were rejected in full, in return, and submitted. Thus, Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, at its meeting on 11 December 2020, appointed the following rapporteurs: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Fr Alberto Pazos Couñago, holder, and Ms Paula Prado del Río, alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres, holder, and Mr Daniel Castro García, alternate, and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Fr Pablo Arangüena Fernández, holder, and Ms Paloma Castro Rey, alternate. The Constitutive Session of the Phoenician Parliament took place on 8 January 2021 with my presence and with the assistance of Mr. Pazos Couñago, Mr. Bará Torres and Mr. Arangüena Fernández. Your work calendar has been set in this session. At the following meetings, particularly on January 20, 26 and 27, with the assistance of the incumbent rapporteurs, the joint text of this bill was analyzed and the amendments tabled. They have completed the work entrusted with the preparation of their report and with the recommendations that are present in this presentation. This report was discussed and adopted with all the suggestions made by the Presidency at the Commission meeting on 12 February. So far here is the legislative journey of this draft law regulating external action and cooperation in Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, which I am presiding over. It is now up to the plenary and its gentlemen to debate and, if so, to its approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u67	Thank you, Mr. Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of the parliamentary groups in setting the position on the dictatorship and, if so, in defending the amendments. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not exaggerate if I say that considering Galicia as a country, Galicia is undoubtedly one of the countries of the world that -- if I may say so -- more human capital has exported over the last hundred and fifty years in relation to its population. So we are talking here today about an important topic for Galicia, given its special external projection within the autonomous communities, because of the singularity that represents the Greek diaspora and because we find ourselves in an increasingly globalized and interdependent world, which implies the need for a strategic and long-range vision in our foreign policy, within the scope of our autonomy. Without losing sight that in any federal state foreign policies form part of the scope of the action of the central structure of the State, for obvious reasons of efficiency and coherence, without prejudice to the fact that the State's external action law itself establishes a playing field for the policies of the autonomous communities in this area. And the Welsh diaspora was quite a tragic story in a land from which the people had to emigrate to survive. But within this tragedy, the diaspora was also enriching by the fact that there was a point where there was a Greek in every corner of the world, and something of that remains today. And that prints a collective character and equips this country with an asset that is underutilized by the inability of the Greek Government to manage and imagine ways to network this huge foreign Galician community, which assumes a great cultural but also economic potential -- as I say -- underutilized. And that doesn't dissolve with this law, neither before nor after the legislative process, as I've already ventured into the debate about your taking into consideration. This is an incapacitable law from the very root, because it is dominated by that spirit that Kafka criticized for the decimononic administrations in those two fantastic novels that are The Process and The Castle, readings that I recommend to his lords of the People's Party. Because it's good to create records and censuses of companies living abroad, as a decimonic administration would do, but in the 21st century this law goes from punts on how to network all that potential and take advantage of the synergies of Galicia's foreign capital, which is a lot and -- we reread -- that is under-utilized. In practice, it seems that what matters most to the Union in outer matter has always been clientelism. Discretional aid and cooperation agreements with the Greek centres, which too often serve to manipulate the external vote, proliferated in the campaign and precipagna after less than a year ago we knew that the State Court of Auditors, in a random examination, opened accounts for the diversion of EUR 300,000, which were theoretically intended to help the Spanish community of Venezuela, and in much of Greece, and which were intended, however, for election purposes. And that was a random examination, i.e., practically a coincidence, because the Court of Auditors only controls a small part of the administrative activity. So, presumably, the tip of the iceberg. And we don't forget that the traditional diaspora has now changed in a new form of diaspora, which is that of well-trained and qualified people, in which our education system has invested a lot of time and resources; people who in recent times have had to search for life in the world ahead, to the point that there are tens of thousands of professionals who have had to leave Galicia, especially in the last decade, because of lack of opportunities in our land. And in this matter, as in so many others, denying official propaganda, spreading the falsified and sweetened image of a happy and delighted Galicia of itself, which does not exist in reality. I'm sure each of the Members and Members of this House knows cases of people who had to leave Galicia in that new diaspora I'm talking about; people who have left and who have not yet come back and have no plans to do so. In the drafting of this law there was not enough involvement by interested actors, nor by the Greek outside community. It is a law that, after the amendment process, remains an overly extensive and prolific norm, which abounds in bureaucratic matters more peculiar to a regulation and in declarations as extensive as empty of content, in addition to that it is totally imprecise as to the objectives and means by which it aims to achieve those multiple targets that are marked. Some of them are as absurd as promoting Galicia as "the pole of scientific and technological excellence", a goal entirely alien to reality, when Galicia is -- as we know -- far from the average investment in R & D+I of the state as a whole, which, in turn, is far from the European average. In fact, the only place where Galicia can be considered an aspirant is the pole of scientific and technological excellence in the mind of Mr. Feijóo's propagandists. But there should never be a law like this, because when official propaganda reaches the laws that should be the scope of reason and objectivity, the worst part of politics is introduced into the very core of the rule of law. [[Applause]] We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia is far from being no longer excellent, but simply regulates scientific and technological issues. First of all, despite being the recipient of large amounts of European funds, we fell down by down to twenty-seven positions between 2013 and 2019 at the regional competitiveness ranking developed by the European Union. And we know that competitiveness is closely linked to science and technology. And apart from turning official propaganda into legal rule, it doesn't just envisage a minimally coherent regulation of something as important as economic promotion action abroad, beyond generic targets, like attracting foreign investment. No doubt, very laudable, if it wasn't because Galicia is systematically year after year a community that receives much less direct investment than the state average. For example, in the last economically normal year, 2019, which was announced as a great success by the Union in the investment uptake, Galicia captured 112 million of 14,792 million, i.e. less than 1% of the total, when its weight in GDP and the population of the state as a whole exceeds 5%. And in 2018, a much more standard year similar to statistical regularity, it caught 0.14%, i.e. forty-two times less than it would correspond to its contribution to the state economy. Figures that are absolutely demolition! And besides, we don't see the means to make Galicia a more competitive country internationally, beyond the idea, it would almost be humorous to examine every year the report of the World Bank's Doing Business. This is one of the aspects that most appeal to me, because it is unusual for a law to lay down the obligation that someone in the Greek Government read a reference report like the Doing Business. Moreover, it seems to imply that until now no one in the Union has even bothered to read that report, which is incredible since that report, first of all, translates into Spanish. So even Mr. Feijóo, who doesn't manage in English, can read it. And secondly, it's not a very extensive report, so it shouldn't take them much time or effort; the only thing they need would be interest and responsibility. And here the problem is, like many others, at the bottom. Igape is recognized as a disaster, both in the external promotion of the Greek companies and in the collection of foreign investment according to or taking into account their results. So much so that we could say that despite having in its own ends the promotion of Galicia's foreign trade and the capture of foreign investment, only one of its departments has among its functions those purposes, i.e., around 20 out of the approximately 20 employees and public officials of Igape have as one of their tasks the external economic action of Galicia. A huge disproportion from the importance of this external economic action in the 21st century. Something Mr. Feijóo's board seems to have not been found, as evidenced by the fact that in eleven years of government the only foreign investment pickup action by that self-proclaimed manager who is Mr. Feijóo was the so-called "Pemex case." This consisted of a few months before the elections of 2016 the chairman of the board announced a wonderful, absolutely wonderful agreement, by which Pemex bought the Barreras shipyard, and in addition he was going to build more than twenty ships in Spain, specifically twenty-two, which eventually stayed in two. A logistics center would also appear throughout Europe in Punta Langosteira, in the outer port of the Coruña, more than ever before. Not to mention the Barreras situation today. By the way, the null and voids of investment capture and the non-existent industrial policy of the Government of Galicia do not allow to albiscate hopeful horizons in the management of Next Generation funds. Another problem of the Greek external action that does not solve this rule is the dispersion in its direction, divided between the General Secretariat of Emigration, which depends on Mr. Feijóo, and the General Directorate of External Action, which depends on Mr. Rueda. And so it is frankly difficult to coordinate policies in the external environment, in addition to being an anomaly with respect to other autonomous communities. All of the above and much more shows the inadequacy of a law that seems at times completely alien to reality, setting out as a goal to capture specialized immigrants abroad, when Galicia suffers -- as we know -- for basically economic reasons -- a crisis that is so acute at the demographic level, that presents Spain's worst data and unemployment figures that duplicate those of the OECD before it is triggered by the crisis resulting from the current pandemic. Which leads to the logical question: How will Galician specialized immigrants pick up when the best-prepared youth in Galician history has to go out of Galicia to find work? Another incoherence between official Galicia and royal Galicia. In official Galicia, we're picking up specialized immigrants on paper; in royal Galicia, young people and girls, after years of training with public support, personal and family effort, have to pack up to find work. In European matters, this law will not help reverse the fact that the Galicia-European Foundation has seen its budget reduced by about 50 percent in the last decade, agreeing with the governments of Mr Feijóo. Mr Feijóo, who, despite the fact that both in Brussels and in Madrid today, is being played today, and despite the fact that our participation in European funds is vital and not lower than the four hundred and fifty million euros each year, and is not guaranteed at all, little is being done for Europe; on the other hand, if there is a little more for Latin America with the problem that people with whom you take photos often end up in prison. A law that dedicates a title to permanent self-government delegations and offices abroad, in which it seems like an attempt to mimic the actions of communities like Catalonia, which were very controversial years ago and which seem to be very short-lived. On the other hand, it obviouss the existence of a wide network of state embassies and commercial offices abroad, which can serve -- as they have been doing, by the way, for decades now -- for the purposes of this law, without needing to invest the scarce Greek public resources in empty new buildings. And we must not forget that Junta has been working on building empty buildings for decades, and Galicia's external action -- like the rest of our community's public policies -- is not going to be better off with more empty buildings and so often meaningless. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need in the field of external action is to be clear where the shootings are going in the world in the 21st century, to design a coherent strategy, to take advantage of increasingly scarce public resources and to know that presence in the 21st century is giving way to virtuality. First to do a market study traditionally all life had to be on the ground, today you can get the information without moving practically from the site. As for the Welsh Strategy of External Action, apart from painting it on a paper, it would be good for that strategy to be reviewed, if it were analyzed by those who had to do so, which is precisely this parliament, which would in theory have to be taken into account every year, which is not met, as neither does the periodicity of the meetings of the Galician Council of External Action. To finish, we are faced with a law that addresses the problems of the Greek action between immobilism, self-compromisingness and an extremely bureaucratic vision that would be almost optimistic to qualify itself from the 20th century when we are already in the 21st century. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u69	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Bará speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u70	Thank you, President. Good morning. The BNG has great differences with this bill, in which we have, in short, three great fundamental discrepancies. The first is that this project is a fruit of a protected, domesticated, and subject to preventive control of the central government and the framework created by the Law, of the year 2014, of the State's external action, the Law of García Margallo, which had precisely that purpose of disciplining. It was a law -- let's say -- external anti-politics of Catalonia. That's why this is a law -- we can say -- capped by the central government. By the way, we miss the report on this law of the Central Government, which must hide, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because it does not appear anywhere. If we had to represent as an image that represents this law, we could say it's like a bird with the cut wings, a bird that can't fly. The second discrepancy is that it is a law of the Union, but not of Galicia, neither of Galicia nor of Galicia, as they wish, it is not. And it's not because it leaves out big foreign policy agents who have to be, for example, cities or deputies, or universities, or non-governmental organizations, that don't appear in the central body of this law as the main agents of foreign policy, and because, after all, it's a bill of lack of ambition, lack of country ambition. It could be worth this project for a region, maybe it could be for Extreme or Andalusia -- with all due respect --. But we propose and we want a bill of a country, a nation with pride, presence as such in the world, with its own voice, with its own country-mark, which is precisely the proposal that we present and that you refused. And there are examples -- there is no need to get out of the Spanish state -- other nations that have their own policies with pride, with empowerment. We have here the example of Euskadi, which is a model of what to learn and what to look at. And the third discrepancy we can say has to do with what we understand by "external action." Is it foreign for you to Galicia and its foreign policy what we do in Andalusia, in Extremadura or in Madrid? For us, yes. Well, Mr. Fexóo these days are walking -- we can say -- paving around for the Madrid dishes, giving real estate management lessons and taking lessons from the million-dollar porn that the People's Party owes. And also -- pass-by that makes opposition to marriage -- it could stand in front of the central government and oppose those harmful measures to Galicia -- but that's another story --. But, by the way, is it "outside" Extremadura, Madrid or Andalusia? For you, Vilanova da Cerveira or Keys is outside. They're external because they put them in this law as outer space of action. On the other hand, Madrid, no. And, look, if you don't understand me or you don't want to understand me, you want to explain it with this sheet from the master album We, from Castelao, in which the boy asked the old man: "And then those on the other side are more foreign than those from Madrid?" "You don't know what the old man said" -- Castelao said --. Well, it's clear what the old man said to him: They're no stranger on the other side than those of Madrid. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And that's why it's absolutely illogical what you're thinking. And they saw precisely an amendment in which we said that Galician foreign policy space is the outer space of Galician territory. It seems to us that this is absolutely obvious, but you don't like this, it's not going to be that we're here and we don't obey orders and orders from the Central Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And when we go in and break down the text more often, getting into the details -- and you already say the devil is in the details -- we should talk about issues like the organizational chart that is proposed here -- that we don't share, of course --. And we also make a very specific proposal: we propose that foreign policy be headed by a general secretariat. If there was a vice-counsel, it would be better; but at least a general secretariat -- because we don't have vice-counsel, obviously --. Why? Because now there's a leadership that's neither direction nor general, because it doesn't coordinate the entire foreign policy of the Government. It does not coordinate, for example, immigration policy, and that does not make any sense at all. And if the government doesn't coordinate it itself, how will it coordinate anything else, how will it coordinate all the politics of the country? That's the reality. And it's also a reality that in this law and in the external action strategy itself, resources and instruments are not established to make a real foreign action policy. Because for that we need resources -- and especially economic resources --. We've already told them: foreign policy costs money and also gives good results and good incomes for a country. And so we have the example of Euskadi, who in 2018 invested 53 million in external action -- Galicia invested 8 --. And there's the balance, there's the results. And I'm not saying that we have to match -- because we have different budgets, funding and discrimination in Galicia -- but at least we have to move forward and have more means to do that policy. As in the case of the External Action Council, which proved to be an invaluable instrument, and therefore led to the resignation of important representatives and relevant figures of Galician foreign policy action and foreign thinking, such as Julius Rios, who in 2013 said, "Here we come, I share this way of working, I throw myself out." Because he did not agree with how he was being led and he was speaking, in particular, of the devaluation, of even hierarchical degradation of the foreign policy of the Union of Galicia. Another question: delegations abroad. BNG makes concrete proposals so that we have our own delegations abroad, not successors. And we're talking about a permanent delegation in Lisbon. This for us is absolutely strategic and priority for two fundamental reasons. We have to conform with Portugal a pole to jointly defend the same interests -- you're already seeing yourself in the debate on infrastructure and rail -- but that's why you have to move it to more questions, because if we don't do it this way, where's the balance going? Because we already know what the priorities are, and it goes to others who are in Madrid and are in the Mediterranean. So that's fundamental. Having a delegation there is essential for this and also for having a presence and a conversation in the whole realm of the Lusophony. We also propose a permanent delegation in Brussels and not that successor of the Galicia European Foundation, which was also repeatedly questioned because it is absolutely devalued as a body of representation. And we also propose a development cooperation agency, which is an instrument that has other state communities, such as Andalusia or Navarre. Because, in addition, it's the demand that the collectives themselves work in this field. But you veto and deny this possibility as well. We're no longer talking about our proposal to provide more resources and more budgetary means for development cooperation policy, and also more flexibility to implement the programs and aids given -- which you also denied --. Another important detail: the schedule. Their policy and this project reveals an absolute lack of vision and mission in foreign action policy. We have an Egaex, an external action strategy, which is a document that has been characterized as descriptive and non-prescriptive, propositive and non-proactive, which is full of generalities and vagueities, and which needs concretion, needs to become a proactive strategy with measures, with budgets, with programs, with time, with tracking, with resources, with evaluation. And that's not in this project. Just as geographical, thematic and sectoral priorities are not included in this project. And we've already told them -- we'll repeat it again, because we've already said it in previous debates -- that, among the major geographic priorities, there are several -- and they're not just in Europe, by the way --. They're telling us great specialists we have in this country -- I've already mentioned Julius Rios before -- that there are many priorities. But it's also true that what experts are asking is that we have to clearly choose priorities. For us one of them right now is Portugal, it's the Lusophony. But the so-called agreement on this matter was betrayed when, after having here a unanimous agreement in this Parliament in October 2018 for Galicia to submit its candidacy and enter the community of Portuguese-speaking countries, they told the Government of Spain that Spain had to enter, that the Central Government had to enter, not that Galicia had to enter. This is a real betrayal. They said clearly in an answer to a question they sent us to the BNG: "Galiza's Board has asked the Central Government to present Spain's candidacy and negotiate Spain's accession as an observer state." In other words, it did not present this candidature to the Government of Spain, it was a proposal by the Galician Union, which gave up the agreement in this Parliament. It's a real shame and a slap on the agreements that weave, in which there are also a lot of people and lots of collectives behind it. And we can also talk about priorities in the thematic areas, priorities in this area, for example, culture or sport, which have an important role to play in promoting and presenting a country like Galicia in order to get through the big door. We have proposed to them, and you have watched the creation of a body, of a institute -- which also bears the name of Rosalía de Castro -- to do that work of external promotion of Galician culture and language. Tomorrow we celebrate Rosaly, which planted fig trees -- and we can plant many fig trees --. But, above all, Rosalía planted the pride of country, planted freedom, planted rebellion, planted the defense of the dignity of this people and their working classes, their women, their culture and their language. [[Applause]] What a great mark of identity of a country that presents a figure like Rosaly in the world! [[Applause]] Because there is no country in the world where a woman was the founder of her contemporary national literature, among other things. And you also veto this proposal, just like using sports, sportsmen and national selections as our country's letter of presentation. What's the matter? There are many countries, stateless nations and in Europe, which make use of sport for their external projection and promotion. And in many countries we know them precisely for this, from Scotland to the Faeroe Islands. You're very grateful that we speak here on the Faroe Islands, but the Faroe Islands have their own status within the European Union and they can negotiate their international and fishing treaties, for example, which we would like to have. [[Applause]] I'm going to finish, and I don't want to do it without making logical reference to parliamentary procedure. We have to say in this regard that we perceive an attitude -- even though this sounds a little strange -- more receptive than other laws -- I have to recognize it --. Because it's true that some changes to the BNG were accepted -- usually as transactions, so they also applied the scissors to the bird -- there. The truth is they have accepted some amendments, but we must once again regret the systematic veto on participation, the use of the mordaza law that they constantly do to ban the participation in this Parliament of representatives of society. And that is a procedure provided for in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The BNG presented up to ten proposals from entities and people to come to Parliament to help make a better law. And this, using all the flexibility that the regulation gives us and that gives us the parliamentary process, would allow us -- sure -- to have a better law and, in any case, to do a frank debate by listening to all voices or some of the great voices that can speak to us here about foreign policy, like Igadi -- because we also have our own institute, an own body, an entity that works in this field and which, by no means, does not receive, through any public summons, any kind of subsidies -- the Fegamp, the Atlantic Axis, the representation of the Galicia European Foundation -- also to know how it works there -- the representation of the Galaga Coordinator of NGOD, Julius Rios, Serafín Pazos, who is a doctor in the European Union and the head of the Scottish Councils Office in Europe -- nothing more and nothing less, a round-up cookie called Peaces --. There's a good one, actually. [[Laughter]] There is also the Galaga Culture Council or the Galician Academy of Portuguese Language, which has worked so hard and so much we owe you, for example, to have a completely paralysed law -- like the Peace Andrade Law -- or to also formalize and formulate that frustrated candidacy of Galicia to enter the Community of Portuguese Language Countries -- that at last you have vetoed this possibility --. [[Applause]] And I'm finished with a conclusion, and this is a missed opportunity -- and although we regret it --, it's a project that's not up to it. We understand that we need to have a much broader, more inclusive and more ambitious vision of foreign policy. And we don't say it, so many of these entities say it. The Atlantic Axis said it in a very good analysis of what foreign policy must be in Galicia. He said it's a law of minimums, not maximums, that it comes as a decree a little arranged to make it into a law. It's the law of a region that asks for permission. You in this law paint a bird with the wings cut and we want Galicia to be a bird with the freemen to fly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u71	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u72	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with the little miracles of the Galician Parliament. Mr. Bará found out there's a good peace in Roundla. It never rained that it didn't spread. And I thank him for having so much devotion to Mr. Pazos -- Serafín -- and I also thank him that even today he doesn't show a special kind for the other Peaces -- we're going to say "at least good" --. I thank you in any case. I have to thank BNG for some things, eh! and I'll do it along this intervention. I have to thank the PSdeG for some less. I have to say that, too. And I'm sorry, I think I'm sorry. Today he gave us a new show of Mr. Aranguena. Mr. Aranguena went through the presentation, but the presentation didn't go through Mr. Aranguena, it didn't happen! Look, I got a little upset today. [[Applause]] I did it these days because I read your speech carefully. I got him here. His speech of the whole debate is these three leaflets. Then I followed closely his speech in the debate of the presentation. They're the same sheets -- the underlined part of orange --. And then I followed closely his intervention today, which are the same sheets but in the underlined part of green color. You must recognize that you are a great reader, but you are much better writer. You made the perfect speech, it goes exactly the same speech for your intervention on the first day that entered the law here that for after three speeches in which you modified about twenty-five percent of the law. The same speech is worth to you. Congratulations! The truth is that you understand your activity there in the Spanish Parliament: four proposals in two legislations. By following this scheme of work, I understand it perfectly. Look, I have to confess that I am proud, twice proud, to defend today the approval of the Law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. First of all, I'm proud of the content of the law, and I think it's a great law, I have to say. It is balanced, plural, eminently plural, and useful. And it's the first law of external action passed in the state by an autonomous community without institutional confrontation. The first one was Catalonia's, and a certain controversy was created which I'm sure is not alien to any of this House's groups. Galicia was the first autonomous community to pass a law of external action without any kind of institutional confrontation and the hand of the Government of Spain, the hand of a ministry that today governs the Socialist Party -- I don't know whether the Socialist Party itself --. The second reason for pride is that it's an exemplary law. And I think that that pride I feel should be shared today, without a doubt, by the Government. What I regret is that I don't have that pride in opposition. Look, first of all, it's a useful law, it's a country law. And I want to emphasize this concept of country, Mr Bará, which rises up on the partisan differences to meet Galicia's needs, and where we talk about important things -- of course yes -- of our relationship with the European Union, so disillusioned in this House on occasion and that today more than ever is proving to be the greatest focus of democracy in the world and an element of solidarity among the European peoples essential to confront at least such a complex situation as we are going through. It's a law that doesn't forget the Greek communities abroad, much less. We consider them to be our best ambassadors. The best ambassadors this country has abroad are these Galician communities that the law pays special attention to. Mr. Bará said we forgot the Lusophony. Not at all, not at all! Include specifically in the law and we also understand that it is a cultural bond that must be thoroughly strengthened. Of course, it's a law that also meets the needs of Greek cooperation and that emphasizes the Greek commitment to international solidarity. And that's why we think it's a law we should be proud of. But the other issue I felt proud of is how the law was dealt with. I'm sure you know that famous appointment that some people give Bismarck -- I think it's from Godfrey Saxe -- that says that with laws it goes like sausages, which is much better not to see how they do. And I think it's the opposite of this law. I would like all the Galicians and all the Greeks to have the opportunity to see how this law was prepared, that they had the opportunity to know the contributions of the different collectives, institutions and individuals who brought it near, of the constructive dialogue that presided over its elaboration at all times and of the scrupulous institutional respect -- because all these issues are perfectly reflected in each article of this text --. The law comes from the consensus of the Greek Strategy for External Action, which was passed in this House without a vote against it. It was then made permanent dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the former government and the current government. She was dialogueed and debated at the Galician External Action Council in Caex, where she passed without a single vote against. They made contributions through the Lexisla with us -- which we read carefully -- and was also widely consensual with parliamentary groups. And, of course, the question that any citizen listening to me will be asking is obvious. If there was so much dialogue and consensus, why does the opposition not support this law? I think there are different reasons why they don't support her. I told you the other day, and I ratify you today, Mr Bará, that you share the law, but what you don't share is the model of state. They don't share it, and that's legitimate, but it can't condition legal and legislative action. And the PSdeg shares the law and shares the state model. The PSdEG simply -- and it's going to ratify it today on three occasions -- is in this Parliament to refuse any agreement with the People's Party, whatever!, in any matter and whatever the circumstances. You're not on the pole. With reference to BNG, I told you the other day, Mr Bará, that your policies and amendments are politically legitimate but are legally illegal. And so it's not that this government or this parliamentary group can't accept these amendments, that it couldn't accept any other government except that we were looking for a collision, a direct confrontation, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the Government of Spain. And I know you want to, but you have to understand that a responsible government tries to avoid it as far as possible. Look at some of your amendments. There are two amendments that they really want to include in the concept "outside" the rest of Spain. I know that's a wish that BNG has, but none of the parliamentarians in this group I represent can support the rest of Spain as foreigners on their land. We're never going to support it, and therefore these are two unacceptable amendments for this group. It's also unacceptable that you intend to remove from the law the concept of "constitutional loyalty." We have to be loyal to the Constitution, we can't do anything else and we don't want to support any of the six amendments that you tabled to eliminate the reference to Spain. They have a term allergy and then they want to remove the term "Spain" from any law -- and, in particular, from this --. They also have a certain theme with the elimination of the concept of private investment. It is curious because this morning in the debate of the first law, they were practically denying any private investment or facilitating private investment in the internal field in Galicia. But it also seems that it leads them to pursue the private investment that also comes from outside. I don't know how you want to generate wealth in Galicia. It's really complicated to understand. And then they present five other amendments, of which Mr. Bará mentioned, which basically makes them fattening the architecture of the Galician Union. I understand that you think Galicia's external action is better managed through a general secretary, it's legitimate. But for that, Your Honor, it doesn't need to be reflected in a law. That's why we have to win the election! Because you'll understand that the Government has the right to organize itself, right? The reality is that this government thinks it should do it through two general directions; and you, through a general secretariat. It's legitimate, but there's nothing in this law that prevents that, if you tomorrow's election is won legitimately, you can declare or determine that the direction of that policy is taken through a general secretariat. Nothing prevents them! Nothing prevents them from opening delegations either. By the way, it would be all right -- because they support each other on this issue -- that you clarify why kind of delegations are going to bet on. Mr. Arunguena says delegations have to be in the Spanish embassies. Mr Bará says no, that they must be perfectly differentiated. The point is, they then vote together. It's certainly a hard question to understand. You also say it's essential to create the Rosaly Institute. We don't agree. I told him the other day: one thing is that we don't agree that this is the tool for developing Galician cultural politics abroad, and another thing is that we refuse to develop Galician cultural politics abroad, not beyond reality! And exactly the same goes for the Galaga Devovement Cooperation Agency. You just bet you create chiringuitos and we don't believe in that model, Mr Bará. And I'm asking you to respect that. Look, why don't we support that selections can have outside representation? Because it's illegal. It's illegal, it's forbidden by the law of sport. So, Mr Bará, what do you mean, do you mean, to satisfy the BNG, let's break the law? Well, we can't do it. The P.S.D. is another totally different issue. Look, it's hard to understand. You presented 19 amendments, you accepted 9 and you traded 5. This is Galicia's External Act of Action, a law, you said, long. Well, maybe you do, maybe you don't. And these are the discrepancies the Socialist Group maintains with regard to this law. I want them to look at him, eh! Half-folio! These very serious discrepancies are the ones that prevent you from supporting this law. But you guys have a concept of consensus! I'm telling you, I really am. Tell us that the law is very long and therefore very angry because we don't want to create three more articles that you propose to us in this matter. It's certainly something to be taken into account. And they're setting up a five-year management plan and annual action plans -- they're putting them here -- we're going to ban them because they're not even carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with much more administrative weight than Junta, right? They also ask for an annual report on the totality of trips abroad, when an appearance is already envisaged -- that we also agree with the BNG that it is wide so that we can talk about any matter related to foreign policy --. They request a report from Igape, which is already reflected in other official reports. And they also ask us to minimize the cost of delegations because you want them to be in the embassies -- just unlike the BNG, although, I tell you, they won't be opposed to that issue --. And finally, they don't like the expression "for excellence to the outside" -- and the end of the differences --. You're going to vote against a law from which you don't share these five questions. It's amazing, I really tell you, it's amazing. I don't know what they want us to do so that we can reach some consensus with you in this House. Look, during the debate in the report I said that this law was proof of cotton on the alleged institutional loyalty that begs the opposition. Because there is no real reason not to support this text, nor is it likely that we will find a law with greater consensus throughout the legislation. It's highly unlikely. All the central elements of the Greek outer action have been consensual with you without any more limit than the Constitution. None of the discrepancies we've kept about this law would prevent you from developing your own vision of government if you won the elections legitimately. And this law enjoins us all as far as Galicia's external strategy is concerned and allows everyone to freely develop the political actions of any government whatever its colour. If the BNG does not support this law it will be because it precedes the idea of Greek nationalism to the interests of the Greek people. And if the PSdEG does not support this law, it will be confirming that the current project of Greek socialism is politically amortized. Because, ladies and gentlemen, to pass a law you can't demand that we ignore the majority identity feeling of the Greek people you want to represent. That's deeply antidemocratic. And, Mr. PSdEG, I told you the other day -- and I repeat it today -- that whoever can remember nothing has to contribute to citizenship. Today you are voting against the consensus of the Welsh Strategy for External Action, the consensus shown by Caex, the consensus reached through institutional dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and parliamentary dialogue. Returns the worst version of PSOE, returns the "no" PSOE. And I think they should rethink it, because Galicia has already told them what she thinks of that way of doing politics. The reality of all this, ladies and gentlemen, is that Gonzalo Caballero was able to beat Abel Caballero's negative record in the PSOE representation in this House. I think it's a fairly poor balance. So I don't have much to tell you. You repeated your speeches. You repeated, Mr. Aranguena, exactly the same falsities as in the first -- which I regret, by the way -- making some very unpleasant accusations. I already reminded him: the only board that paid a trip to Argentina from an election agent was his, not the People's Party, it was his, they presided over, or co-chaired -- I don't know very well what they were doing -- these two gentlemen. It's not this government that's committing illegalities abroad. It was yours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u74	And I didn't talk about that subject during the processing of the law. What I would ask of you is a minimum of prudence and equanimity. What I would ask them is to do something to agree with this government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u76	What I'd ask them is that they hold their hand for once. But, as you ask for it, it's like asking the pears for the olymus, what I really ask of the Socialist Party is that, sooner than later, they actually hold this congress in Geneva that they have pending and I hope they'll be more successful and put in front of this parliamentary group someone who has something to offer to the Greek people. Unfortunately it won't be you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u77	Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pazos, in my view, you are incuring once again in that political style that you qualified last week -- precisely in the Committee 1st and discussing this law -- as a strong rule, although it is being moderated -- I calculate that for the second part of your intervention --. The same strong qualification likes you. You're even looking at yourself as a forceful person. But I'd replace the "contestant" with "bronco." And that -- as I say -- today is not particularly bronco. I guess it'll be more in the second intervention. And, of course, it seems to me to be an improper parliamentary style of mature parliamentaryism, after forty years of democracy, as should be exercised in this House. But finally, you'll see. We voted together with the BNG -- you tell us --. Of course, we're going to oppose this law along with the BNG. You say we have different opinions about the trade offices and delegations. Well, we have very different opinions about a lot of things, and we vote together, which doesn't mean we're in the same position as this law. But if we're going to be -- it seems to be -- in the same negative vote against this law. You do not agree and speak of amendments accepted and believe that we should vote in favour because we have accepted some of our amendments. But we've already said from the beginning -- I said it from the beginning and I repeat it -- that we are against the spirit and substance of this law, and that what we should do is return this law -- so we ask for its unamended return --. And if it seems negative to our attitude, you are opposed to your party in Madrid with respect to the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary -- by setting an example -- or by contrast to the responsibility of the PSdEG with regard to health restrictions with the attitude of constant disloyalty that Mr. Feijóo's Board of Commons has with regard to the actions in the field of central government health. Contrast you if you think our willingness to consent is negative. Let me tell you that I'm talking about something that I know beyond theory, because I worked at one of the commercial offices abroad, that you're talking about -- specifically in Mexico --. I also worked in an export company -- a reference Greek company --. When we make criticism, when my group does it, they're not critical because of lack of consensus, nor are they, in this matter, ideological. They're critical based on their own knowledge and allay of the chronic deficiencies of the Greek external action of their government, that this law, as I said, will not help to remedy as much as you would accept -- which, of course, we appreciate -- part of our amendments. As I said earlier, this is not a law that is being amended, and that's why we call for your return. Nor does it fix the Greek external action with this government doing the same things as usual, with clienteleism -- too often directly out of legality -- with the lack of foreign investment capture, promotion of Galician exports, the failure of measures to improve Galician international competitiveness within the competences of our Autonomous Community and a long and so forth. We, with regard to the amendments of the BNG -- and to mark our position -- believe that the centrifugal temptation that may have some political force in the outer wind does not make sense from the point of view of the rationality and structural cohesion of the state or from the point of view of trends in the world of the twenty-first century. External action, such as geopolitics, tends to form large blocks of common interests, not State segregations or the segregation of state foreign action. That's why we're going to vote against some amendments from the BNG and we're going to abstain in other -- although we're going to vote in favour of the majority --. We will also, as the President knows, call for a separate vote. Nothing more, thank you very much and, in any case, bear in mind that with this law that you will pass, you can either make foreign policy or you can continue without foreign policy. I, of course, encourage them to do it -- which they haven't done in the last eleven years --. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Bará Torres has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u80	Mr. Pajos says there was no institutional confrontation. And do you know why there was no institutional confrontation? Because you loved all the central government's taxes, so there was no institutional confrontation. They say "if drunk" to everything they send from Madrid, how there will be institutional confrontation! But in addition, Mr. Gamallo said clearly that they sent us, I don't know how many sheets of text corrections -- which, by the way, is not in the file, I told you --. They also hit the CPLP. When they were there with the proposal that Galicia enter the CPLP, Mr. Borrell told them that it was that Galicia entered, that Spain entered! It was like that, like that, and you loved it. That's why there's no institutional confrontation, because they say "if you drink." And then tell us about dialogue and consensus -- they're overrated! --. Look, it was adopted at the External Action Council without Igadi's support -- which is the highest body, entity, in Galicia of international studies -- without the support of the Atlantic Axis and without the support of Fegamp. So much so that there would be so much dialogue and consensus! And besides, you have ruled out the participation of these entities in Parliament; therefore, of much dialogue can't boast either. Tell us about illegalities. Maybe we should talk about ideology. That is why, of course, we have great differences in this matter, as in many others. And we could also talk about ethics, for example, when we talk about national selections. Because you, for example, don't even allow friendly competitions in the case of football. I'm not surprised, because they're in front of the federation -- and you allow them, the People's Party -- a gentleman convicted of prevarication and fraud, a gentleman who is no one. He didn't go by, he was one of the top leaders of the People's Party, provincial president and president of the MP. [[Applause]] What are they waiting for? What are you waiting for to ask for responsibilities in those charges too? Even if the law is not to be applied, ethics must be applied, morality must be applied, and exemplaryness must be applied. And it's not all worth it. And, look, they're telling us about illegal issues, about illegal BNG proposals. I'll explain to you what our illegal proposals are. Is the development of the country brand illegal for you? Look, this is what he proposed, in a study they published in 2018, the Galician Economic Forum, which I don't know, but I wouldn't say it's a BNG advisory body. They did a study and proposed the development of the country brand. And they put examples in the state and the world, of countries, of nations, who were working on this key. They are talking in particular about the development of a Greek brand that integrates culture, commerce, tourism and the environment. And you vote and veto this proposal. At CPLP we propose that the German Government manage Galician admission as a CPLP member. It's no wonder you're voting against it, because you're working against it -- through the back door, secretly -- that Galicia enters the CPLP. We propose a permanent delegation in Lisbon and a permanent delegation in Brussels. Where is the illegality of this proposal? What's the matter? We propose multi-year plans, budgets and participation to develop the Peace-Andrade Law. And, you know why? Because the collective promoters of the Peace-Andrade Law went out publicly on their day denouncing the null development of the Peace-Andrade Law four years after their approval, and accuse the German Government of "infringinging the commitment gained during the negotiation with us and with parliamentary groups." They're saying all these entities, they don't say BNG. That's why we want to put into the law multiannual plans, annual programs, media, budgets, investments, participation of society in the development of that law. Because if you don't, you'll see what they also say in this document: that it gives us a thousand lessons of Extreme -- as we've told you many times before -- that it has its own policy, a Plan Portugal, which has a country strategy, or a region, to be present in Portugal. And that's why they also have five or six times more Portuguese students than Galicia has -- when they have only one million inhabitants and we have 2.7 --. I'm really ashamed of these figures. How can this be! Well, it's because you don't believe in the Lusophony, you don't believe in Portuguese, you don't believe in Portugal. And at most, you reach the Douro, to the Euroregion. From there to the vacuum. It's over. There are more proposals that you say are illegal. For example, the External Cooperation Agency, which is a request from the collectives themselves working in the field of cooperation. In short, what we are proposing is what many countries and nations of Europe are doing -- state and out of state --. And what we propose is what entities that are not suspected of wanting to break anything, such as the Igadi or the Coordinator of ONGD or the Economic Forum of Galicia or the Atlantic axis or the Galician Academy of Portuguese Language. We want to be the voice of all these entities, of all these collectives, through our amendments. And you're going against them and you're going against them here, which they're showing you don't believe in that possible country, in a country that has its own voice in the world and in a bill, so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u82	...from an ambitious, courageous and determined country to reach its intended end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u83	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician People's Group, Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u84	Thank you very much, President. Well, see if I can avoid that tantrum tone that seems so disturbing to Mr Arangüena, who in recent months has been a real gentleman in this Parliament. Finally, things will see, things will see! [[Laughter]] Look, Mr. Bará, let's start by understanding some things. Of course Galicia has its own voice, of course we want its own voice for Galicia! What you have to understand is that Galician voice is not yours. It's just that you've been struggling for the last thirty years to speak for a people who don't want them, who don't want them, who don't choose them, who don't feel mostly representing them! [[Applause]] What don't you understand about this? [[Applause]] It's just a terrible thing! Today you compare them to Extreme. He says there are more Portuguese students in Extreme, of course, because extremists need to study Portuguese to talk to their neighbors. We don't, we understand ourselves perfectly with them, or do it out of intellectual curiosity, because we want a greater knowledge of the language of the neighbouring country. There's no Greek who doesn't get understood in Portugal, not one!, because they're our brothers and how we feel. Don't say barbarities. [[Murmurs.]] Another thing is that we have to improve our academic knowledge of the language, which is two things that are totally different. I told you the other day. There's a difference -- even if you don't want to assume it -- with Faeroe and Scotland with respect to Galicia: the Scots don't feel mostly British -- or at least in a large part --. The vast majority of the Greeks feel completely Spanish, and that's what you don't understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can't impose a different feeling on the Greeks. Look, we don't ban, we're not going to ban, selections can't compete abroad. We don't forbid it. It's forbidden by the Law of Sport. Man, on the law it corresponds to the impulse of the Government -- which, by the way, has a frankly curious position in this --. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] One last thing for BNG. You tell me we're checking in. Don't cheat on me, please. You presented this list. What can't be used by Parliament as an excuse to justify that they haven't done their job. From the list you presented, we speak on repeated occasions with all, with 100 percent. And you say, why not here? Because it doesn't make much sense. We talk to them before, when their approaches can be brought to the text of the presentation. What makes no sense is talking to these people when they're overdue in the deadline for tabling amendments and therefore they can't incorporate their approaches. The lawyers have already said it, but you don't care. And, man, the "if you bunk" one, I ask you to explain it to Mr. Arangéna and Mr. Caballero -- I understand you're here today, Mr. Caballero --. Because, of course, it says we present a law that... we absolutely accept everything that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has imposed on us! everything! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what BNG accuses us of. [[Interruption.]] You're going to vote against it. How do you explain? How do you explain this? And I mean it. Look, Mr. Aranguena says the law doesn't fix itself by amending. How you don't fix the law is not working. Of course, if you don't present amendments, no law can be arranged! But I already take advantage of your head of ranks here, which is lately expensive to see in this House. I don't know what to do. They always criticize that we don't look at government members. The members of the Government are ruling, they are doing what the people of Greece have chosen for. What I don't know is what members of the opposition are doing, who aren't doing what the people of Greece have chosen for. Don't change! Don't change!... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u85	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u86	I heard a Member this morning saying that elegant parliamentarians didn't interrupt from the scene. It was your party! [[Applause]] Look, I know you guys have been a bit lost lately and I want to offer you some light modestly. Because, of course, look, what the PSdEG says, about why it's going to vote against this law today, is that it's a constitutionalist party. And as I suppose they will vote the same as they voted in the motion, can you explain to me why you vote in favour of deleting this expression of law?: "The autonomous community constitutionally recognized as historical nationality, inextricably integrated into the kingdom of Spain." I told him I don't think they know very well what they vote for. They voted in favour the other day. Of course, today he told them the BNG that it was necessary to avoid centrifugal temptations. Can you explain to us why they voted in favour of direct participation -- when the BNG says directly means without the representation of the state -- of Galicia in European bodies and in making decisions on matters such as fisheries, agricultural policy and industrial policy? Are you guys in favor of this? They voted for it! It's a curious thing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, it's funny to tell us this law doesn't like it because it's too extensive. Then you propose to delete an article, create four new and four other sub-paragraphs. He doesn't like the expression "by virtue of excellence." Instead of modifying it, what does it do? Requesting the removal of the article. That's what you're asking us to remove -- Mr. Knight, I'm telling you because you might be interested in knowing what you're going to vote for --. They call for us to eliminate that "autonomous administration will enhance, within its competence, collaboration with international bodies and organizations in the field of research and innovation". Are you against this? Really?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u87	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u88	He accused us of trying to mimic Catalonia's performances, comparing the delegations I spoke about with Generalitat's embassies. But today you don't object, you won't oppose, creating the Galician delegations in Lisbon and Brussels -- and today Mr Bará has just said that he doesn't want successors --. He thinks they have nothing to do with the Spanish embassies. They defend legality -- you say -- but they don't oppose the international participation of the Welsh sports selections, banned in the Sports Law. Are you going to change the sports law, Mr. Knight?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u90	Look, that's the disarray, that's the nonsense -- I'm finished, Mr. President -- that we even deal with you with the wording of Article 51. We agree, we come to a transaction and incorporate it into the law. Well, you are voting in favour of the amendment to the BNG that amends that transaction. It's certainly a curious thing. Finally, Mr. Knight, Foreign Act of Action, discrepancies of the Socialist Party, that is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u91	Thank you, Mr. Paz, your time is up. Thank you, thank you, it's over! [[Applause]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u92	After we have finished the legislative texts, we shall proceed to the vote. We begin with the vote on the amendments to the Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia. We begin with the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u93	Yes, Mrs. Presas?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u94	We are asking for a separate vote on a series of amendments. If you want, I'll repeat them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u95	But now we are voting for those of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And they asked to separate some of their own.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u96	Oh, okay, okay! I thought you were talking about the whole thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u97	No, no, we're going to vote on amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We then comment on what you say. [[Pause.]] Right, sometimes one, with so many hours and the mask, also loses control of certain things. [[Laughter]] We then begin by voting on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, in particular to 1, 9, 35, 36, 48, 50, 51, 52, 69, 74, 75, 76 and 80. Vote on Amendments Nos 1, 9, 35, 36, 48, 50, 51, 52, 69, 74, 75, 76 and 80 of the Socialist Group of Galician Socialists to Ditame, issued by Commission No 3a, Economics, Farm and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 41; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u98	We now vote for the rest of the amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Voting of the amendments by G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, except those previously voted, to Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u99	We are now voting on the amendments of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales, concerning those which are asked to vote separately -- a request made by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, and to see if I say so well -- some groups of amendments, which are, in particular, 23-25, 30 to 36, 38 to 42, 49 to 54 and 117 to 119. Right? [[Assentment.]] Vote of Amendment Groups 23 to 25, 30 to 36, 38 to 42, 49 to 54 and 117 to 119 by G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditam, issued by Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14 The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u100	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting of amendments by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except those previously voted for by Ditame, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u101	Finally, we voted on the Commission's statement. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u102	The Act on administrative simplification and support for the economic reactivation of Galicia is therefore adopted. We are now voting on the amendments to the Ditame issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on Galician health. First of all, we are voting on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Voting of the amendments by G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law amending Act 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u103	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. Voting of amendments by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditame, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law amending Act 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on Galician health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u104	Finally, we voted on the Commission's statement. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law amending Act 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on Galician health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u105	Having approved the dictatorship, the Law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia is therefore approved. We now vote on the amendments to the report issued by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. We begin by voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in particular paragraphs 4, 5, 12, 14 and 18.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u106	Excuse me? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u107	I'm sorry not to ask you before, but we wanted to request the separate vote of Amendment No 18 from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u108	So we started by voting on Amendment No 18 from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of Amendment No 18 by G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, issued by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14 and against, 59. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u109	We are now voting on Amendments Nos 4, 5, 12 and 14 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting of Amendments Nos 4, 5, 12 and 14 to G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, issued by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u110	Now we're voting for amendments to the Nationalist Block Galego. A separate vote was requested. The Socialist Parliamentary Group called for specific groups. We are now going to vote on Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 12, 16, 17 and 20. Vote of Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 12, 16, 17 and 20 by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditam, issued by Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u111	We now vote on Amendments Nos 23, 28, 29, 30, 33, 34, 37, 41, 47, 49, 50 and 51.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u112	Excuse me? Is there one more abstention? Then there would be 72 and one more abstention. That's right, let's add it up like that. Now we're not going to repeat the whole vote, it became more or less clear what was going on. Vote of Amendments Nos 23, 28, 29, 30, 33, 34, 37, 41, 47, 49, 50 and 51 of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego au Ditame, issued by the Commission 1st Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u113	Now in particular what we are going to vote on is the rest of the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Voting of G.P.'s amendments to the Galego Nationalist Block, except those already voted upon, to Ditame, issued by the Commission 1st Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u114	Finally, we voted on the Commission's statement. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 14; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u115	Having approved the dictatorship, the Law regulating external action and cooperation for the development of Galicia is therefore approved. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u116	They've finished voting here, but I have to read an institutional statement that brings the groups to me. It is a statement on World Rare Diseases Day that specifically says: "In Europe, rare diseases are those whose prevalence is below 5 per 10,000 inhabitants. Only 5% of the more than 6,100 identified worldwide have treatment. The more than 3,000,000 people (20,000 people in Galicia) who are estimated to live with these pathologies in Spain, or are in search of diagnosis, have always constituted a vulnerable collective with specific needs when living with genetic, chronic, multi-systemic and degenerative diseases. The health crisis highlighted the importance of social and health coordination, research as the only formula to achieve a solution, or the value of having professionals prepared and committed, and with structures and strategies that ensure equitable access to diagnosis and treatment. It is shown that patient organizations are a point of reference to curb ignorance and that coordination between platforms in the sector allows us to take steps to meet the common needs of people with chronic diseases and disabilities. With this pandemic, the importance of coordinating national and international efforts, as well as public-private collaboration, has been demonstrated with a view to developing a solution that has been translated into a vaccine. I mean, when we invest in research and develop collaboratively, this is possible. It has also been shown that many proposals that have been moving the group of rare diseases for years have been effective, such as the Register of Rare Diseases or as the innovation developed to ensure the socio-educational continuity of minors via telematics or the start-up of home and telematics treatment, which improve the autonomy and quality of life of the people who suffer them. It is a process that we must accompany by urging the Government to recognize the specialty of clinical genetics in Spain. Now more than ever, within the framework of World Rare Diseases Day this February 28, the Spanish Federation of Rare Diseases and the Galaga Federation of Rare and Chronic Diseases highlight the importance of commitment -- with increased investment in research to make it possible -- the struggle -- motivating cooperation between autonomous communities to address a common problem of the hand of strategies in rare diseases -- and the union needed to exchange knowledge and provide better attention and coordination between social and health professionals through the system of centres, services and reference units and their coordination with Europe. These values will be enhanced if they go hand in hand with the hope of families to achieve it. On this World Day of Rare Diseases 2021, more than ever, we want to work online recognizing the role of patient organizations, which proved to be the response to families when they needed it most, and confirming that together we can achieve it. Santiago de Compostela, February 23, 2021."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u117	Now we continue with agenda item 3. Debates and votes on the motions for resolutions of the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u118	Proposals for resolution 1 to 3 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group are maintained; 24 of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; and 6 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. There's an intervention by the Galician Councillor, Mr. Xosé González Vázquez. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Bringing the Forest Plan to Parliament was an act of good faith, an act to place Parliament, the home of all the Greeks, where it deserves, at the heart of autonomous policy. The forest plan is a decree by the Government of Galicia, I didn't need this procedure. But our conviction at the Galician Summit, and also my staff -- as a Member who I am and who I was before being a counselor -- is that Parliament must always be present. Respect for this institution is complete. My surprise comes when during this procedure the opposition decides to ignore that this plan is born fruit of work together with the entire forest sector, decides to ignore that this plan represents the entire sector concerned and decides to make a simplistic policy by criticizing without basis, cheap and low-quality partisanism. It's a strategy that, as you know, has a few results seen just eight months ago in the Welsh polls. The opposition seeks to decregate everything that comes out of the Joint Government, but this strategy is bad -- especially when it doesn't have a consistent and realistic critique --. This forest plan is based on the long term, looking towards the year 2040. And for that moment, it sets what we want. The main objective of the plan is carbon neutrality. That's why the plan assumes four cross-sectional commitments that allow -- or that will allow -- to fulfill the objective: green transition, biodiversity, climate neutrality and responsible consumption. It is not understandable that no parliamentary group has anything against any of these four commitments. But they're not the words of this advisor, they're data. It's not just a commitment, it's a full schedule, a consensual planning and a high budgeted schedule. Why do I say it's consensual? Because, ladies and gentlemen, you've got 101 of the 115 guidelines from the working group that was created in the Council of Galicia Forest. I mean, there's consensus with the sector. This Forest Council working group was essential for the Forest Plan to be a reality today. He's been very active, and it's fair to recognize him in this Parliament. They developed detailed surveys that moved to public reports -- submitted for access by any entity or person at all times --. There are also acts approved, and public access through the web, of the entire process, in which this active participation of all the organizations that are part of the Forest Council -- up to a total of 26 --. And so this working group was made up of sectoral administrative departments, private entities representing forest property, Galician Forest Association, Frouma, Galician Organization of Montes Communities, business organizations in the forest sector, service or exploitation companies, representation of autonomous professional schools, research centres, Welsh universities and environmental self-defense organizations -- Earth's friends and the Galaga Ecoloxist Federation --. The guidelines have been voted on and have been adopted with broad consensus in practice in all cases. Look, several of the organizations that oppose the Forest Plan today participated in the working group and voted in favour of the guidelines now set out in the Forest Plan. They didn't say anything at that time, they didn't even say it in the presentation of the document to the full of the Forest Council -- sectoral consensus --. Why is this planning consensual? Also because, ladies and gentlemen, it complies with 75% of the recommendations of the dictatorship adopted in this Parliament in 2018, in the Fire Studies Commission in October 2017, with 75% also in favour of all members of that Parliament, the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And in 2018 we had to adapt, as could not be otherwise, the Forest Plan precisely to accommodate these recommendations, to fulfil the parliamentary mandate. We also incorporated the arrivals received in the consultation and public participation process, because we also made an active consultation process. We call on you to bring the text to 35 executive centres and agencies belonging to the General State Administration, to the Galician Union, to the four provincial deputies and to the Fegamp. And this consultation process was complemented by the request for access to 18 other organizations, including the Galician Ecological Defence Association, the Galician Natural History Gallaga Society or Verdegaia. [[Whispers]] There is, of course, a documentary record of this adaptation of the Forest Plan to the guidelines of the Forest Council working group, to the recommendations of the parliamentary dictatorship and, like not, to the arrivals received in the consultation and public exhibition process. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a consensus from the entire sector on the need to have an as up-to-date forest inventory as possible, and this was also reflected in recommendation No. 1 of the Committee on Forest Fire Studies to which I had previously been referred and implemented and is collected in measure 511 of this Galician Forest Plan 2021-2040. Let's remember right now that the forest inventories so far are done for the Central Government with a ten-year periodicity. We all understand that this is not well suited to the needs of a forest sector as dynamic as Greek, which accounts for 50% of the cuts from all over Spain. For this reason, and also fulfilling what the recommendation of the dictatorship was, in 2019, the Galician Union launched an agreement with the Greek universities that was finally signed in early 2020 and that will allow us to be the first autonomous community to have a forest inventory itself and up-to-date in a much more agile way than the Central Government inventories. We'll have information from the German Forest Inventory between the end of this year and the beginning of 2022. He's working that way. As we assumed this need for the German Forest Inventory, the Autonomic Administration and the forest sector, also by consensus, we believe that the best solution, given the need for this planning of the Greek Mountain, was to present the Forest Plan with the expectation of updating its data as soon as the German Forest Inventory was operational and, in time, to regulate five-year reviews of the plan that would allow agile reaction to the inventory results. That's why I'm surprised that one of the main criticisms of the plan is that it is based on an outdated inventory and that a new inventory had to be expected, because the decision, ladies and gentlemen, was agreed, again, with the entire Greek forest sector. Why do I also say it's a real budget-supported planning? Because you have signed more than 4,900 million euros for your compliance in these two decades. The strategic performances of this plan are or should also be of cross-ideological acceptance. Seek to keep ecosystems in an active management. How? Through the promotion of biodiversity and multifunctionality, the fight against climate change and the promotion of renewable energy. All this, always accompanied by genetic improvement and conservation of forest resources. The strategic axes of the plan are based on a number of lines of work that will contribute to the achievement of the White Mountain of the year 2040, which I'm sure is what we all want. These lines of work have already been sufficiently sketched by the Director General in his appearance in Commission 7a, because, as you all know, we chose to follow the most secure procedure in the processing of the forest plan in this Parliament, but I'm going to transfer to you what is the objective we are looking for for for that mountain of Greek 2040: Reach an orderly and certified mountain, with 850,000 hectares under management tools. This year 2021 or 60 % of all that is being certified in Spain is being certified in the Galician mountain. Of the 850,000, 650,000 will have forest certification. A mountain also multifunctional, with logging activity, genetic resources, protective mountains, green infrastructures and rural population fixation. A diverse mountain, with a larger area of conifers -- we're waiting for an increase of 20,000 hectares -- of soots, with the recovery of traditional soots and new surfaces; and of leafy cadifoli, about 425,000 hectares, and with a decrease of eucalyptals by 5% from the current surface. Twenty thousand hectares of eucalyptus will be transformed into plantations of other species. A mountain with wood in quantity and quality, with a 70 % utilization rate, with high-value leafy and high-quality wood by means of genetic improvement. A very resilient and healthy mountain, with Galician forest health and vitality program, with forestry management models and a high degree of resilience through forest genetic improvement programs. A reliable, innovative and digitized pile, with Galicia's continuous forest inventory, and a programme to promote forest research, development and innovation, with an budget of EUR 135 million, as well as the creation of the Virtual Forest Office of Galicia. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, said that this plan had no consensus, something that is clearly rejected and contrary to the fact that this plan is born of the forest sector and the work of the forest sector. You also said this plan wasn't realistic, but it's clearly designed with 4,9 billion euros of budget up to the year 2040 and with complete, cross-sectional strategic lines. I'm going to finish, ladies and gentlemen, but I want to make it clear the position of the German Government on one of the most debated issues in our mount. To the thread of the whole exposed and of all the issues fully collected in the Forest Plan, which, as I said, aims to achieve carbonic neutrality, forest biodiversity and economic, environmental and social sustainability on our mountain, it is worth highlighting -- and so I do, at this point -- a transcendental proposal; a proposal that is implicit in the plan itself, that you have decided to criticise and that today we are explicitly presenting. An initiative which, in addition, is already being drawn up in one of the motions for resolutions of the People's Parliamentary Group and which we would like to deal with with all the groups after this debate. Look, we're all aware of reticence or criticism with greater or lesser foundation than society in general has towards the monoculture of any kind of tree species, but, above all, of the eucalyptus. And in this sense, we have to reaffirm ourselves when we point out that the forest sector, ladies and gentlemen, acts in Galicia as an example of pension plans, and so support the data based on its profitability. Thus, species like the eucalyptus or the pine make up species that generate wealth and employment. More than 80,000 forest owners have annual incomes for wood cuts in Galicia. This means that around 12% of the Galician families receive income from this concept. We speak of no less than 300 million revenue each year. In addition, it must be remembered that in round numbers Galicia annually records around half of the wood cuts that take place in Spain. We can't overlook that reality. In this context, we are developing, as I explained, an academic and scientific forest inventory with the university that will enable us to make the right determinations in relation to the reality of the Greek forest, proof and background of the unequivocal desire of the Galician Union to promote the forest biodiversity of our mountain. This fact determines that it is the right time to launch, as I say, this proposal, in addition to ensuring compliance with the criteria and guidelines set out in the plan on eucalyptus. We will therefore accept that all parliamentary groups in this Parliament, in the Galician Forest Plan, will be bound by the vote on the motion for a resolution, which, as I say, will try to negotiate the People's Parliamentary Group with the others. In this proposal we will assume that the Galician Union, as soon as possible and with the necessary normative range, regulates a temporary suspension of the new eucalyptus plantations on those areas where they had not been planted until the time of suspension. In other words: that the surface of eucalyptus in Galicia will not increase from this suspension. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u120	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The role of parliamentary groups in the defence of motions for resolutions. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u121	Thank you, President. In the summer of 2018, the Ditame of the Committee on the Study and Analysis of Forest Policy Reforms and the Prevention and Extinction of Forest Fires was approved, and our party reached an agreement with the People's Party which was based on 123 concrete measures that should guide the future of our mountain. The Greek socialists agreed that all forest actions should be integrated into the whole of rural activities, so that they were economic, social, environmental and territorially sustainable, compatible and synergistic. Since the time of the agreement, the People's Party has done nothing but breaching the pact in an effort to continue with its old and wrong politics, which become manifest in three great indicators that I mean here. First of all, chaos, with Galicia which has a wide coastal area with a monoculture serving a great industrial oligopolie, another large eastern and south-eastern mountain area, where the mountain is neither underutilized nor underutilized, and the large central diagonal of Galicia, where the mountain is subjected to enormous conflict and insecurity that discourages any kind of action and converts forest owners and managers into suspects. Secondly, the abandonment. Forest management consisted of perpetuating problems such as fires, abandonment of mountain communities or the disappearance of the forest, local and commercial industry, and encouraging new problems such as conflicts between livestock and forest owners, between urban and rural society as a result of flagrant failure to comply with legislation or the perverse use of the forest administration. And thirdly, the loss of value. While the forest area has not ceased to grow in the last 20 years, in the report of the Greek economy 2019-2020, in the dynamic part of the wood agri-food complex, in terms of economic input, the forest sector has grown from 2.7% of GDP in 1995, to 2 % in 2018; a fall of 25 % in twenty-five years. Today we came to debate a new plan, which said the counselor who wanted to consent in Parliament and also in the street, but the reality is that they brought it in a hurry, without participation, and because they couldn't escape -- even though you put it as if it were something the People's Party wanted to do, but they couldn't -- the commitment to bring it to Parliament, just as they agreed in the study commission, but they didn't debate anything, they didn't even answer our questions, and it seems they want a plan that only pleases certain companies in the sector. Until we doubt that it is legally processed, as we have explained in our motions for resolutions after the legislative changes that you yourself have adopted. We do not wish to amend this document in part, because it is such a poor quality that it does not achieve the minimum technical rigor that must be required of what must be the fundamental planning tool for our forest and that it will act on more than 2/3 parts of our territory. It's a document that starts with two different titles: on the one hand, a revision and, on the other, a new plan, with two different temporal horizons. We don't know if it's until 2030 or if it's until 2040, but the delirious thing is, when they talk about mountain modeling, they're talking about planning for the next forty years; so it's good to clarify themselves in something as essential as the temporal horizon. Entering the document, we don't know what the following methodology is. It's unusual to encounter a plan that has no diagnosis. It's like a doctor wants to cure a sick person without first looking at him and knowing what he's suffering. A coherent diagnosis would show the present and future problems of the mountain, allowing you to know its dimension and importance, the absence of resolutions and the synergies that can be built, but nothing at all. See if this document is disastrous, which is already complicated to set targets without knowing the starting point; as I said, in this document, strategic targets acquire different denominations and structures throughout the document. The mountain model which should be the reflection on the forest planning territory and which was a central element in the planning of 1992 and of many other regional plans should be something to discuss with technical, economic, environmental or social criteria for each district, municipality or parish. This would be what we could expect from a normal, rational and strict forestry plan. But they say they leave it for the PORTs, who plan to be for the five-year period from 2026 to 2030. Funny that they now remember this figure that has existed in the State Mount Law since 2003 and in Galicia since 2012 as a solution to the failure of the rigour of this plan, when no plans were developed in twenty years. With regard to eucalyptus, they establish that for the first five years, 2021-2025, the number of hectares increases by 3 %, and for the fourth five years, which decreases by 5 %; a way of planning very curious and suspicious. First, what numbers do these increments and those decreases? Why don't you bring any? But if we take into account the area that the Galician Union publishes in Galicia's forest statistics yearbooks for the years 2018 and 2019, in paragraph 5 of forest repopulations, we see that it is established that in recent years the Greek forest farmers do not produce or sell or plant eucalyptus in Galicia. How are you going to increase by 3%, gentlemen of the People's Party?, in what parishes?, in what municipalities? How will you fulfill your promise if you say no eucalyptus is sold in Galicia, Counselor? There is no clarification in the whole document, and the most regrettable thing is that it seems that the statistical manipulation they show will not be corrected in the future with the figures of the continuous forest inventory that is developing it. Within the same subparagraph, it states that productivity will be increased in areas where eucalyptus already exists; i.e., monoculture will be intensified. In municipalities where they already have eucalyptus in 93% of the mountain they want to reach 100 percent. Moreover, curiously, this increase coincides with that established in the strategic plans of certain companies dedicated to paper pulp, which comes with the need to increase the volume of eucalyptus in areas close to their factories. Won't it be a coincidence, Counselor? With respect to pine trees, they mark as an objective to achieve an increase of between 15,000 and 20,000 hectares and establish in which mountains. The Greek Government has stopped managing and allowed them to cut down and never plant tens of thousands of hectares of pine trees in Galicia in recent years and now establishes that private owners will be the ones who plant the pine on their lands. The question is, what studies support that prediction? How many owners are willing to plant pine? The most recent reports, such as those published by Sofor, indicate that only between 2.5 % and 5 % of the owners in the areas inside the Crown and 13 % of Ourense are willing to replant pine. What is the objective behind this increase of surface restated with pine and what kind of mountains?, do we previously managed by the Council of Galicia, Counsellor? Are we facing a new 100-percent reforestation plan with public funds? These questions should clarify the plan. Finally, they're talking about the leafy caducifolia. What is the source of these new leafy masses? I can tell you, the abandonment, Counselor. Once again, they resort to average values to justify that in some areas the monoculture of eucalyptus is allowed and in others the obligation that everything is piled up with leafys without any kind of economic value and performance for their owners. Nice way to plan: for some, everything and for others, nothing! Speaking of the budget, it's a forest spending plan for the Rural Council, since this document only mentions the funds of this board, not to mention other departments, other administrations, or private contributions. As for the distribution of these funds, in particular the first five years, which is simply what you can study -- because then you're talking about the 2-percent linear increase, we still don't understand the budget distribution between the action axes, setting investment percentages with such wide ranges that they don't make sense. I'll give you an example. In the budgetary evolution table for the first five years, on the forest statistics, training and forest research axis, making the calculations of 10 %, which is the average of the table, would amount to 105 million euros; that is, they will spend at the Rural Environment Council 105 million euros on this legislation. It would be nice if I began to say what they spent in the last forty years to see their lack of rigour. And if we go through the indicators to try to locate the budget between what's already done and what's included in them, we all know that comes with a hundredth part, and so on with all the proposals and indicators that they present for all the facts. A real purpose! I'll give you another example. They say they want, at the end of this current five-year period, 200,000 hectares of certified area in Galicia, and you yourself publish that we have 270,000 hectares in 2020 in this document that gave us the theme of reactivation. What is the purpose of the plan, Counselor?, eliminate certified surface? A true defiance of the document, gentlemen of the People's Party! From our group we ask them to withdraw the document, return to the proceeds of the public exhibition -- that they went through the triumph in 2018 -- and make a real plan that takes into account the opportunities and risks that the sector will have in the future and that it is integrated into the territory, society and the economy of this country. For us, this sector is a fundamental sector for Galicia, and we will always bet that it is going on throughout our territory, not only in certain regions, so that some of them are producing and others serve alone and exclusively as a reserve. We do not want a plan for oligopolies or monocultures, we want a plan for all the owners of Galicia, and we believe that the way to achieve it is law and planning and not tables covered in rigour to quickly approve a plan that fills the interests of those who try to obtain the aid of the PDR, something which, of course, I do not know what the agricultural sector will think, to which they have certainly not reported, Counsellor. As you will understand, after seeing, as we see, this pituitary, which is the Forest Plan, the Forest Plan document, will not convince us with its fireworks at today's session. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u122	Thank you, dry Mr. Martín. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, I would like to thank you for this magnanimity that you showed by bringing the Forest Plan to the Parliament of Galicia. Since then, I tell you that this fact, which is very good, does not eliminate the fact that you stole the social debate of this document, and from here I ask you first of all, for the first time in my intervention, to withdraw this Forest Plan to initiate a participatory process. [[Applause]] What would it be for us to expect a forest plan? First, we understand that it has to be -- moreover, we mentioned it in the Commission -- a cross-sectional document, a participated document, which includes a mountain model with resilience capacity and budgeted to be able to put that model into practice. Therefore, it has to incorporate measures from the point of view of forest planning, it is clear, but also from the environment, tourism, business, education, etc. Because the mountain is much more than a raw material and the forest plan has to be much more than the forest plan. A forest plan also has to do its planning on the basis of a real analysis of the current situation, you have to set some targets, when you reach the end of your vigency, and you have to incorporate, like any plan, a series of intermediate control and correction mechanisms to check compliance degrees and be able to turn where you see errors. They present here this forest plan that is drafted, as you well said, without an updated inventory, and you, who like very much the "pioneer" no longer use it here... well, if you use it, I say bad, sorry!, because they use it to refer to the "Pioneer" continuous forest inventory, which will be there, towards the end of next year, when it is published. You here advance your publication for a year. Let me doubt it. When you're ready, you'll be a pioneer, as your CEO said, throughout Europe. And I have to give them the reason and make sure they're pioneers this time. They're pioneers wanting to approve a forest plan without knowing what they have on the mountain. More innovative is impossible! But besides, they sell it as a fortress, and I suppose, when they do this speech, they do it with a clear receiver, because you know who's listening to this speech, of course, it's not citizenship, who's been protesting outside today against this plan, and I'm sure there are companies delighted that this is such a flexible plan as they're telling us. Thirdly, a forest plan has to defend and look for a mountain model, as I say, and it has to have it because it's a document that should order up to two thirds of our territory, including -- despite also what the Director General of Forest Planning says -- to the Natura Network, which has a forest area of up to 80%, community habitats and other sensitive areas. Fourthly, it is a forest plan in which every carbonic neutrality has to incorporate measures and policies that go towards that neutrality and do not perpetuate a model of low biodiversity without resistance to fires and very low -- when not null -- protection of the most delicate spaces. And, you see, none of these four questions are resolved in the document that brings the approval here today, none of the four. With regard to the first, with transversality, it is a document which, first of all, does not comply with the procedures required for its processing and approval, despite what you have said, Counsellor. You strive to sell to the public something that the People's Party doesn't even believe, that this document is the same as it was exposed in 2018, but improved; so it could be considered part of that same process, as they say in the analysis document and therefore part of the same processing process. I repeat that you don't believe this, and you don't believe it because it's a lie, and as they know it's a lie, they've made a change of law to avoid the corresponding procedures now, public exposure, participatory process and strategic environmental assessment. Because if it was the same process, I ask you, Counsellor: why was it necessary to amend the rule in the Accompanying Law to Budgets? Why would there be an explanation in that Accompanying Law that there would not be a new public exhibition? Because it's not the same plan. If it was the public exhibition two years ago, you wouldn't have changed that law. [[Applause]] Well, now that I think we all agree on this first point -- I'd like to think that we agree on this first point -- we're going to move on to the second one, as far as technical competence and planning are concerned. This is a document that is not technically supported, and it does not, because it cannot, because you lack data, and therefore it is an irreality. You here intend to make us believe you're planning on a mountain that you recognize yourself to be unknown, and I'm not going to go into the wrongs, inconsistencies and even the contradictions collected in this document, because of course, the ten minutes of what we have to name them would not arrive, but I don't want to let some questions go through with funding. We only plan public spending here, in amounts, on the other hand, to our view, totally oversized, but at no time they talk here about private approaches, and this is a real perversion, to our view. Public funds have to serve as an engine for change, and here nothing is seen in that sense. So it's a short-sighted, short-sighted document, if what's meant is to increase the value added and change the determinism to which our mountain has been drawn. In terms of two issues, which are the ones that most have announced and advertised in the press -- and I commented on this matter in committee -- the PP announces a false reduction -- it has been said here -- of 5% of the surface of the eucalyptus, and the goal of reaching 425,000 hectares of leafy trees in 2040, which, in addition, you just mentioned again and that in a press headline it looks very good, but it's an absolutely ridiculous fact when you in the document say that we start at 405,000 hectares. And one thing that's surprising is the number of recommendations from the Lumes Commission, which they give 75 percent, and, put to lies, I really do, why don't you say they all do them? Because the correlation between most of the action programs proposed here and these recommendations of the dictation are -- to be very generous -- totally tangential. And finally, I want to stop a little bit on the organizational issue, because you present a document that is structured for five years, but I would almost associate it with legislation; and here, of course, you come up completely. And so, in the first five years, they plan to increase to 3% of the eucalyptus. You've been a little curious now, we'll see you tomorrow. This is really what I think I would give to talk a lot, because they recognize, first, that they don't know how much eucalyptus there is today in the country, even though they actually give the data published in 2018 in the Forest Inventory of productive species, which sets this surface on 422,000 hectares. So I ask you, how much surface does that 3 percent increase mean? Where is it determined?, where can it be increased?, where not?, with what criterion? And I'm going over there, in case it's over 3%, what tools is reserved for the Galician Union to prevent it? I already answer them: none at all; none, because the plans, the PRFs -- the forest resource management plans -- that would be a legal instrument that the Administration would have to address on this issue, leave them for the second five years. In short, his approach seems to be: let's do what we want during this legislation and, whoever comes behind, there they are caught by what they find in the Greek mountain. [[Applause]] As far as the mountain model is concerned, I tell you -- I mean -- you don't have it, and at the bottom here I'm cheating on myself, because I think you do have a mountain model; you have a mountain model, of course, based on the eucalyptus monoculture, and that's what you reflect in this plan. If it's not ink on paper, because it's pretty ugly, it's clear in the whole of the document that they don't intend to modify the inertias that took us to this situation. Its intention is to continue to fund, in this European case, without planning or modulating an alternative mountain model, rich in biodiversity and that doesn't turn Galicia into an eucalyptal from the Cape of Fisterra to the Trevinca Mountains. In relation to the fourth question I mentioned, which is carbonic neutrality, and which, in addition, is the argument that you have seen this entire forest plan, I think it is a trap that you intend to counter the bad image of the eucalyptus in our country; a premise that they argue very well in the synthesis document, but that then they do not transfer to any of the execution axes, and they do not transfer it because they cannot. How does it advance towards carbon neutrality? For it is done by favoring the mixed masses and natural regeneration and by starting to disband the path of the monoculture of the eucalyptus. You enter other species, not only 10,000 acres of leafy and 20,000 conifers at the age of twenty. They model a system that allows you to extend the shifts of the cuts and not cause, with these cuts, plantings in fact, more release of CO2 to the atmosphere than they retain in their short periods of survival. They understand restoration processes as a complex thing that should include maintenance and building structures. And when they talk about resilience, they don't use the term as an empty headline, they apply policies that abound in that resilience, in that ability to survive and adapt our mountains to the aggressions of the fires, in the passage of time, to the action of the human being and the productive use of the territory. And you don't say so, tell us the techniques of the sector, and also tell all the mountain organizations, trade unions, ecologists, associations and social organizations, that this morning they have manifested themselves in front of this building, as much as they've scratched them -- that neither the doors of the building let them manifest themselves -- and that they're worried about the adoption of a document that will mortgage our future forever. In short, you do here an analysis of the situation in a diagnostic document that, as your spokesman said the other day in the Commission, when you spoke about the Forest Plan, is a diagnostic document that could sign anyone, because the problem is that almost all the measures they then propose on the different axes go in the opposite direction. I don't know if we call this synthesis document, a set of voratums, or the biggest coat of hair in history, because what we are asked here for from the opposition groups is that we do an act of faith, that we forget all we know about what their forest management model is, what our mountains are now in, and that we believe in the good news that the PP is finally going to change its squealing way of understanding our territory. And we've been at the point of really believing it, what happens is that the president of the board, Mr. Feijóo, is in the press, and he says there's a need to increase the wood cuts of the current nine million cubic meters -- that they don't look like it! - up to 12 million. And, of course, we get rid of this weakness, because this is where the question lies. [[Applause]] We didn't understand -- really -- the rushes for approving a forest plan given how little they were interested in applying the previous plan, and we understand that it's part of this propaganda vorachine in which the Rural Environmental Council with the Agricultural Land Recovery Act, the Forest Plan, the announced new Fire Law or the announced amendment of the Common Mountain Law, that here we could stop, or we could stop, when we discuss that law and talk quietly about its offensive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u125	... - Yes, I'm ending; thank you, Mr. President -- of absolute harassment and fall to the monsoon in this country. This is a plan -- finished -- made by and for the receipt of PDR funds and the ultimate goal of putting these European funds into the hands of the eucalyptus sector, and the wood cluster said it this week. They said literally: "We must approve the document in a short time and align the objectives of the plan with the European programming period to access these funds." I don't have to add a comma here, because, of course, water. On the basis of this analysis and these criteria -- finished --, BNG presents its 24 motions for resolutions. The first one once again calls for the withdrawal of this document for all the issues I have just pointed out, because we are actually in time to do things right. Remove the document until we have the Forest Inventory. And the other 24, given that they're not going to pull it off, they're so they can at least start incorporating modifications that smooth the document's lesion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u126	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u127	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Without a doubt, for a convinced Democrat, to participate on 23 February in the adoption of three laws in the Galician Parliament is a day of joy, but it is also for a convinced ruralist to be able to defend an instrument of forest planning, an absolutely ambitious, necessary and rigorous instrument, which, together with the Land Recovery Act -- which I have also had occasion to defend recently -- predicts a successful, compromised legislation and, of course, is working for something that we were chosen last July 12. I, Counselor, want to thank all the people who have contributed to this serious, rigorous and responsible work. And don't take offense, of course, because of that ugly qualification that put the Socialist Party's spokesman on him, that I've been listening for years to speeches in the councils, in parliament and less time in Parliament, but I've never seen such a lack of respect yet to call this document so much work, "a piltrapha." I thank you, too, Counselor, for today he does something very important, he does something specifically on our electoral program, and it's not a minor matter. In the political project that I represent today, when we sign a contract with neighbourliness, undoubtedly, when we do, that makes us feel good, because we are people of speech and because we are good people. [[Applause]] I was saying that bringing this document here is an act of good faith, and that's how I feel. Not only did he bring him into this house, but he also brought him through the procedure which most reinforced the participation of all groups, even those whom the Greeks placed in an absolutely indisputable way in the opposition; perhaps, for this reason, more support and more invitation to participation. As you know, first of all we have the presentation, we will have a day of suspension and we will come to the final debate with a clear will of consensus. It's a call to consensus. They say in politics a lot of times a half-truth does more harm than a lie. And here, perhaps, I wouldn't be too reminded of the voice of the Galician Nationalist Block what the wooden cluster said. The wood cluster has invited the consensus; it says it is a necessary instrument, an instrument, in addition to recognizing that many people have worked in the last five years, and they consider it, in fact, a document that must go with consensus to give stability. The advisor explained it perfectly, but I would also like to insist on defining a document that looks at the future, up to 2040, and that looks for a clear objective of carbon neutrality. The four commitments that the advisor and I would like to emphasize -- here is also a half-truth of the spokeswoman of the Galician Nationalist Block -- are what I told you in the Commission that it would certainly be what everyone would agree with, and that's why I should lead them to interpret the document in a spirit of greater consensus. I didn't say what you said. Specifically, the green transition bets on biodiversity, climate neutrality and responsible consumption. After listening to them, don't they match these four goals? It's a document that had an important consensus, the advisor explained it. Twenty-six entities that could play here today -- and that, in addition to what I heard, maybe it wasn't wrong -- were incorporated by 87.8%; 101 out of 115. It is clear that the percentage of integration of these proposals is broad enough to define that it comes with consensus. What's the problem, then, what shouldn't the forum be the Forest Council? Is that where you think the sector is not represented? My attention is very much drawn to me because I heard this morning in one of the most important laws that were criminalizing it over and over again because it had not been discussed in the Economic and Social Council; however, in an important sector, I understand that the Forest Council is well represented. And I don't understand it myself. I have here a decree of a lord, who will surely remember, which is Suárez Canal, where he explained the composition of this council and defended the Forest Council as a consultative body and advisory body of the forest administration in order to facilitate a proper sustainable management of the Greek mountains. Isn't that the same? Aren't they worth it now? I, honestly... He also said in the Commission -- and the more I hear the conclusion -- that one day we should do a test, deliver a document like this, don't tell them who did it, and, of course, there's neither the Council of Galicia nor the People's Party. [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document.]] I am absolutely convinced that they would address their study and work in an objective way and that we would reach a lot more agreements. Because to you, the only thing that makes you feel bad and produces urticaria is simply the political project that we represent, and of course, you will have to recognize it... Yes, it's true, it's true! but it's very sad, uh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] That's very sad! Well, they probably don't disallow the organ. So, finally, what's the problem? It's got perfectly clear and identified targets, it's got budget. This is the first time I've heard the Galician Nationalist Block say that the budget is oversized. Counselor, put a lot of money on me! That's the problem. If there is no budget... the budget is oversized! [[Laughter]] Look, I tell you with absolute good faith -- believe me, with absolute good faith -- that I am convinced that this is one of the most important instruments and that it has some strategic lines of action in which, I insist, we all agree: the importance of betting on ecosystem services, by keeping actively managing; the promotion of biodiversity; the fight against climate change and the promotion of renewable energies; improvement in forest genetics; betting on working against climate change; restoration and protection against erosion of forest soils; forest health; prevention and defense against fires; the fight against abandonment; the commitment to sustainable management, dissemination, training, research and development; and, of course, a very important strategic line, betting on a new model of governance. There are goals, in addition, very concrete. It is also true that this intervention, especially that of the spokesman of the Socialist Party, did not come very busy. Mr. Seco, you repeated with points and commas what you said in the Commission. That's also very important, because when a counselor in a debate starts his intervention by saying that he comes in good faith, that he makes a call to dialogue, and you pick up and reproduce what he brought ready for four days ago... at least, to understand, first you have to attend. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, either he didn't listen, or just the conclusion would be that he's not interested. Specific objectives: 850,000 hectares under management or management instruments; clear and determined bet by model villages; mobilization of 150,000 hectares of agroforestry land -- are these not concrete targets?--; bet on a multifunctional mountain, a diverse mountain, with a clear objective of an increase in coniferous surfaces, more than 20,000 hectares. Everything is perfectly quantified, including the Forest Inventory; an absolutely innovative instrument. Mr Chan said in the Commission that probably not only in Spain but in Europe. It is a forest inventory that, in addition, focuses as a living document. I think here: what happens, you don't like how the Forest Inventory is doing? Did you have any alternative and for some reason this important, ambitious and innovative agreement with the Greek universities has thrown this to you on the ground? It's just that, as much as I read and hear, they read the same document that I read and worked the group I represent, and very fundamentally the Forest Council, I see that we're not reading the same document. It's impossible, there's got to be some hidden reasons that we haven't been explained here yet that they avoid support for this important instrument. But I look at the counselor's own dialogue invitation! It's very important. I know that with the planting of eucalyptus, it doesn't happen like the wolf, the Socialist Party doesn't make it very clear. Here almost qualifies him as an invasive species, and he criminalizes us almost as if we were terrorists to anyone who bets on this crop, but elsewhere -- of course you, who so much likes to read to mayors -- declares war because it says they are forbidden to plant eucalyptus. [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document.]] That's true, but it's not just that; now it looks like it's adding up to The Foundry too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done now because -- and I don't want to destabilize them -- I think the only thing I come here is to find that they really believe this is a good document, a living document, which has some items to go and analyze their evolution, even annual reports and a request for both political forces. I believe that no one can doubt that this is a necessary instrument. I ask them to abandon politics of no, to demonstrate that they want our rural and believe in it with the approval of this document that will enable us, among all, to build a rural with more opportunities. They stand next to the green Galicia, from which you sit and bet on the countryside, by a productive and orderly lot. Citizens always respect political confrontation, but if such ideas emerge something positive. Today -- believe me -- the time has come for our rural, the time for a policy imposed on the non to the policy of agreements. Through the motions for resolutions and their corresponding transactions there is an opportunity to demonstrate that the future of Galician forest wealth matters to us. Ladies and gentlemen, you mind. The radicalization and polarization accompanied by the exaltation of what separates us lead to this inability to agree on stable solutions, which the sector and the owners also demand, at a time when, ladies and gentlemen, we face very complex challenges. It's impossible to carry lasting reforms, those that transform a territory, if we don't go with a country view...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u129	...and with a spirit of dialogue. It is the time of talented leaders for conciliation and with tolerance for consensus. We do not ask for resignations, ladies and gentlemen, we ask for understanding in a plurality scenario. I hope that tomorrow you will be able to take into account what you have been told here today, very important, not for the group I chair, but for our rural one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u131	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u132	Thank you. Tomorrow we'll continue the processing of this point. We will do so after the vote on the non-law proposals, and we will do a round of spokesmen to set their position on the motions for resolutions of the other groups for a period of ten minutes. The vote on the proposals will be after the House's presidency's ordination. I remind you that the deadline for submitting possible motions for resolutions negotiated by parliamentary groups ends at 6.30 p.m. in the Register of the House today. For now, nothing else. We suspended the session until four o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u133	Good afternoon. We resumed the session with item 4 of the agenda. Accumulation of two appearances for their joint exhibition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u134	We started with the accumulation of two appearances. Like Mr. Health Adviser, on his own request, to report on the evolution of the incidence of the pandemic in Galicia in relation to the epidemiological and care situation and the progress made in the Greek vaccination plan against covid-19 Like Mr. Health Adviser, at the request of the 19 G.P. members of the Galician Nationalist Block, to take account of the measures being taken by the Galician Council in the light of the evidence that Galicia is immersed in a third wave of covid-19 and the vaccination strategy, which should be a key part in preventing the transmission of infections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u135	Let's get started. And for that, first of all, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u136	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin this intervention of mine, first of all, having a few words of remembrance for our companion Montse Prado, who is going through a delicate situation right now. We'll miss you from here this afternoon, for sure, for your interventions, and we want you to recover as soon as possible. I compare my own request in this plenary to continue fulfilling the commitment of the Board to transmit regular information on the situation of the pandemic in Galicia and its evolution and, in this particular case, also to account for the progress made in the vaccination plan. I will begin, as I always try to do, by mentioning the dead in this case on yesterday, those 11 dead who join the previous ones to make that terrible figure of 2,187 dead in the pandemic. Our greatest solidarity with the relatives and acquaintances of these deceased. And also, as always, I'm trying to make an explicit recognition and reminder to primary health care professionals or hospitals, or to any assistance device whether public or private that is facing the pandemic right now in Galicia. As far as the current situation is concerned, the first assessment I have to make on the evolution of the epidemiological situation is that it is being positive. The cumulative index reduction data, both 14 days and 7, decrease in active cases and percentage of positivity of the tests, are visible. And that evolution is that it moves us to take measures like the ones we took yesterday, which are going in line to gradually reduce the level of restrictions on social activity and mobility. The second evaluation that is essential to do is that we are at a time when any change can bring us back to the situation before we have the greatest risk. We have made an important effort, both by the population and by the health professionals, to return Galicia to a trend in evolution that can already give us some tranquility, but it will not be complete as long as there is a risk that the levels of infection will grow again and with them hospitalizations and deaths. That's why I don't want to stop calling prudence. From the Government we can change the intensity of restrictions, but what we never change is the level of commitment to compliance. That's why it's my duty to transfer to the population that the improvement of the situation can in no case serve as an excuse to anyone, to the administration, to economic agents, or to any citizen to disregard compliance. We must be more cautious than ever by taking these small steps because only this caution and prudence will prevent us from taking a step back in both numbers and restrictions. In Galicia we have reached and left behind figures that we consider to be of the highest incidence and that are already below 250 of the incidence accumulated to 14 days per 100,000 inhabitants. Yesterday, with the last official data, we were at 216 in this I.A. at 14. I want to remember that less than a month ago, when we took the most restrictive measures, on January 26, the incidence accumulated at 14 days was 726; a figure, in addition, which was multiplied in very little time. If we looked back, January 13th, when we took the first steps, it was already 340. And although the normal thing would be that the ascending curve was much more pronounced than the descent, the joint work of society, of health care, allowed the new cases to be forwarded before the expected start. This effort of the professionals and the population of what he was talking about was also reflected in the decline in the positivity rate, where we can see that Galicia is now the autonomous community with fewer figures, which is undoubtedly a good sign of the evolution of data in the coming weeks. Today we have a positive rate of 4.07% in the last week on average. And positivity doesn't go down because we stopped looking for positive cases, quite the opposite; in the last week, according to the Ministry's data, Galicia was different from the autonomous community with a higher rate of diagnostic tests conducted by every 100,000 inhabitants; namely 3,325 compared to a national average of 2,120. Even in absolute numbers we've done more evidence than any community that overcomes us in population. We're running an average of 100,000 tests a week, although, as you know, the Ministry doesn't count the saliva tests we do in Galicia. Crews are one of the main tools against the pandemic. This was very possible in the homes of older people, where their effectiveness was demonstrated by weekly PCR tests and antigen tests performed both by their staff and by residents, which allowed them to quickly cut down many groars. Since November, weekly staff members have been able to detect in an early manner more than 2,500 positive cases. Since December 1st, the health areas have carried out population-specific crews or groups that have included more than 368,000 people and have detected 1,024 positive cases. Only last week did we quote a total of 69,783 people to slaves in the community. We perform population tributaries to citizens of up to twelve municipalities in the four provinces of Galicia. In this same week, we've quoted 34,000 people for the moment, and they're still waiting to finish a few of them to be held; in addition to university students who, as you know, can perform diagnostic tests during the next weekend and on Monday and Tuesday of the next, before their incorporation into classes. Specifically, also in Marin City Hall, today the mobile unit of the Health Council is installed for the realization of massive crows by PCR testing in saliva tests. The launch in November allowed it to be moved to twelve municipalities, to analyze samples of more than 70,000 Greeks and Greeks and to detect more than 200 positive cases. For the realization of the slaves, besides, of course, of the excellent work they do from the Public Health Department of the Council -- and of course, to publicly thank all the people who make up this department -- we also count on the work of primary care services, which specifically they are doing evidence of antigens, but also collaborating with the massive slaves, in their realization, and also the councils themselves, who have prepared everything necessary to facilitate their realization. It's an important effort, and that's why I want to keep asking the population that comes when they're called. We know that many times it may be a small inconvenience to have to travel to the fixed place to take the samples, but only in that way, by shortening the positives as soon as possible, we can further reduce the number of contagions. So there's a great diagnostic effort in Galicia where we're collaborating with all administrations, with all resources, where we're collaborating with citizenship in a very majority manner, and what we're adding more and more collectives to contribute to increasing that capacity. Speaking of crows, I would like to thank the College of Pharmaceuticals in Ourense Province, which in the past months, in the months of November and October last, collaborated with the Board of Trustees, in that case with antibody tests in their province. Also to the College of Pharmaceuticals in the province of Pontevedra for their collaboration in the implementation of saliva tests in this case in the pharmacy offices themselves, which has already enabled more than 20,000 tests and detects a total of 39 positive cases these days. And finally, to the other schools of pharmacies in Galicia, especially in the Coruña, with which we are working to get this program extended as soon as possible to this province. Some people might look little, but an undetected asymptomatic positive can quickly multiply into several infected people when it's not properly isolated. That's why we believe in the need to continue implementing pioneer programs like this, because how many more diagnostic tests we do less probability of transmission. With regard to the care situation, today in Galicia, we have 663 people who enter indoor plants less than the peak that we've had these days, and also 111 people less in critical beds. Although, logically, the situation is not yet the best, we have made much progress since that peak, which occurred in the occupation of critical beds on February 1st, with 257 people entering this unit, and today we have 146. It's 56.8% of that peak. And in the case of people hospitalized on the covid plants, the highest reached since the beginning of the pandemic was January 30, with 1,210 cases with occupied beds, having today 547. We're at 45.2% of that peak right now. As we have already noted, the occupation of critical beds usually takes longer and so also the descent is slower. That's why we continue to insist on the need not to give up on the little sentinel to which we appeal so many times over these months. The commitment to the conception of a public health system in Galicia with the single hospital model also enabled us to make better use of resources and also give patients better attention, resulting in critical hospital patients with greater pressure in this area of critics to hospitals that had a better situation. From the beginning of the year we moved 38 patients, namely 19 from Pontevedra to Vigo and 19 from Ferrol to Lugo and Pontevedra. Another of the issues that allowed us to deal with the pandemic from the beginning without our system collapsed was anticipation. As of February 27, 2020, an expert committee composed of intensivists, neumologists, etc., began to define which were the needs, the characteristics of the equipment needed to deal with the pandemic in Galicia. And the next day, we started to process the first emergency procedure. And not only anticipation, but also Sergas' shopping experience was fundamental. Ten emergency files could even be developed. In fact, together with the prayers of private entities, they allowed Galicia to count at that time with 866 more fans to be able to cope not only at the beginning of the pandemic, but also at the second wave and especially at this third, where the pressure of critical units was the greatest we've had in this whole period since the virus arrived. Exactly from these 440 teams were destined for critical areas and their expansion areas. In addition, this advance in the purchase of materials allowed Galicia to receive the equipment kit within the time frame and in addition to a significant reduction in prices in respect of other competitions. In that same sense, I would like to inform you that this month we take the Board of Board of Directors to provide EUR 2.5 million for the incorporation of 31 non-invasive respirators with two levels of pressure, 16 portable radiology teams and 7 electrical impedance to provide, in this case, in the case of the latter, the ICUs and, in the case of non-invasive respirators, for the provision of intermediate respiratory care units; a device that had only a few hospitals before and that following this procedure we completed in all Sergas hospitals, having even 74 beds throughout Galicia for patients who require this additional support and who can prevent their entry into the ICU or, on the contrary, to make an exit from the ICU to these units in a much safer way. With regard to non-covid patients, we have recently known the waiting list data of the year 2020 when it closes. In external consultations we're in an average of 49 days. In fact, it's 8 days longer than the 41 that we closed in 2019, the best data in the historical series. But in June that waiting list was 66 days in 2020. So the professionals of our public health have achieved this average in the last six months in almost 20 days, as I say, and end in these 49 days of delay in consultations. The delay resulting from the first wave and what this third may produce we hope to be able to recover it from a recovery plan of activity, which I'll talk about a little later, and that Sergas is planning to start when the aid pressure from the vault drops. In addition, it should be noted that Sergas has at all times complied with the execution of urgent diagnostic tests and all those collected in the Decree so that the maximum time guarantee system carried out within 45 days required by that autonomous regulation is regulated. And I would like to point out that, despite this situation, that the professionals of the Greek health professions had to deal with in this third wave, rather than during the first one, there was no suspension of evidence of any of the cancer addicts that are being done in the community. With this data, therefore, we have already advanced yesterday the adjustments in the restrictions that allow us to recover activity in some area, but as hospital pressure decreases, especially exercised on critical units, it will be time to recover a little more pandemic normality, and we hope that in the near future, nearer than far away, pre-pandamia normality, which is the real one. But we believe that all measures must be taken with caution criteria, and especially in those cases where we know that the decrease in restrictions directly affects the growth of social interaction and therefore there is a greater risk of infection. In short, it is vital at this time to make careful planning of the escalation. That is why we believe that the reopening of the hostel must be carried out with the greatest possible guarantees. We know of the industry-wide effort to comply with the measures, but still we believe that we must create a new model that gives greater security assurances, something that will be positive for society in general, but also for the institutions themselves; security for owners, entrepreneurs, workers in the sector and also for their customers. That's why we also want to count on the local administration, which we believe must be involved too, as long as we count on the necessary means to comply with the measures so that in all establishments we can enjoy a secure hostel. To that end, we have drawn up a plan, which we have already announced, which includes a number of actions which will take place in detail. We will continue to take action on schedules, percentages of authorized shelters and use of spaces inside and outside, according to the epidemiological situation of the municipality. We also want to improve the management of shelters, both for the benefit of our own hosts and for the neighbors who use these sites. We will provide the owners with tools for their calculation, both inside and outside. We will establish the need for a responsible statement of those gaps which are visible on the spot, and it will also be necessary to visualize unused tables both inside and outside to facilitate their leak check and also distances. We also work on enabling a traceability system through QR codes, in this case through the Passcovid application, to facilitate follow-up if you require a contact study at that location. For all of this, the Union makes all possible assistance available to the sector through the means we have. There are over 200 public health inspection professionals who have increased their work since the beginning of the pandemic, also taking note of compliance with prevention measures against cowardice-19. With the work of these professionals and with the Directorate-General for Public Health, we launched the reinforcement campaign to improve compliance with health measures to deal with the health crisis caused by the coward 19th. This campaign envisages the carrying out of specific visits by public health inspection services to advise and verify the implementation of health measures derived from covid-19. It started in January and until now it has been specially directed to establishments where there could be a greater influx of people and favor the transmission of the virus, mainly shopping centers, shopping malls, hypermarkets, supermarkets or sports facilities. Now is the time for this team of inspectors to work together in advising and helping the hospitality sector to help them comply with the necessary measures to ensure health safety. The Union will therefore make the means available for this collaboration, but, as we consider it to be a task of all, we will ask the municipalities to continue to collaborate within their capabilities to also ensure compliance with health measures at the shelters. Tomorrow we've convened a meeting with the Fegamp, with the state's security forces and bodies, to continue to collaborate on this line. Finally, at the end of this new escalation, we hope to have the hostel open again, but it will be an opening of a different hostel; an opening with security facilities guaranteed by the sector itself, which is showing an extraordinary willingness to collaborate -- we have to say -- and an opening with those security criteria reinforced by the support of the personnel of the autonomous administration and local administrations. We'll also have to put an automatic tracking system of cumulative incidence values, so any of the measures that we can put on the table are also put -- repeat -- automatically and quickly, using probably more accumulated incidence at 7 days than we've been using now from 14. We also hope that at the end of this escalation there will be a different situation with regard to the immunization of our population, thanks to the steps we are taking in the vaccination plan. As you know, we started the administration of the vaccine this week at the age of 80, although last Friday we carried out a pilotage in the Santiago area to be able to test the whole system of organization of this vaccination and that it could start yesterday throughout Galicia with the highest normality. We would have done it before, but with the vaccines we had, as you know, priority was given to the second dose in the already vaccinated collectives to start with the larger ones now. We move forward, as you know, at the highest rate that allows us to take the doses we count, and that's why I want to thank, especially today, first, the entire special citation team, consisting of primary care personnel, which has also taken a voluntary step to form these teams, one by every health area; we're talking about the order 60 or 70 professionals who are responsible for calling users in this new phase of the plan and making it easier for our seniors to fit their appointment. Second, the entire nursing staff -- our elite body in this vaccination process, since it started with the residences -- for their work in these intense months. His work and dedication are the ones that make it possible for Galicia to have this rate in vaccination and to be protecting the most vulnerable population so quickly. And, third, again, the public health staff of the Health Council, who, as I said from the beginning, from the beginning of the pandemic, has done an extraordinary job following the cases, establishing the criteria, and now also, as could not be otherwise, with their diligence in the development of the Greek vaccination plan. Last week we were vaccinating non-primary staff of concerted and private hospitals, in addition to all of the health personnel who are employed in private consultation or in companies, which in the National Vaccination Plan are called Groups 3A and 3B. We also vaccinated the staff of the companies hired in Sergas: cleaning, security, maintenance and personnel of the health research foundations, as well as the medical and nursing student, who are performing practices in hospitals. All of these are also part of that group 3B, in this case. Once all seven vaccination processes have been completed for all health personnel, we will vaccinate their union representatives. On the other hand, we also advanced this week in the vaccination of day centers staff and staff of patients of public and private psychiatric hospitals; the question of this last defendant, in addition to the collective -- they are part of the group 3B-- Also in the home help services; a process in which I want to thank the collaboration of the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, which helped to collect and process information provided by the municipalities. And tomorrow we will begin the vaccination of the teaching staff, 50,000 teachers, who we hope to have been vaccinated before the end of March. We did some evidence yesterday, today too, but, I repeat, from tomorrow it will be done in an extended way. We will first vaccinate those under 55 because of the greatest disposition we have at the moment, as you all know, of the AstraZeneca vaccine and that, in addition, it was the reason to intercalate this group -- in this case group 6-- in the vaccination plan, in parallel with groups 4 and 5. We're also working with Fegamp in the next process, in collecting data from security and emergency personnel, depending on local administrations. On the other hand, we also had contact with the Government's delegation to organize the process of vaccination of state forces and security bodies, which is the so-called 6A group. This week we published the second update of the Greek vaccination plan, which, although it does not exist for many, is what governs the vaccination procedure in Galicia, where the characteristics of the vaccines, the vaccination procedure, logistics, training, etc. are collected. It is available to everyone on the website of the Health Council and we have noticed it on several occasions in this Parliament. Well, this updated and adapted plan to the news that sets us the National Vaccination Strategy was what guided us and what guided us in this vaccination process -- I repeat --, modified almost permanently by the eruption of the AstraZeneca vaccine, with that provisional limitation of use for children under 55 years of age. I repeat what I have said on numerous occasions. In Galicia, we have dedicated ourselves exclusively to vaccination against cod, 10 per cent more than primary care personnel, primary care nursing, which allows us to administer without problems, at present, the doses that come to us from the Ministry. Right now we have received 153,385 doses of Pfizer, 9,800 of Moderna and 23.800 of AstraZeneca, which account for 5.16% of Spain's total. With these figures we have currently vaccinated to 19,753 users of residences with complete pattern and to 1,869 with a single dose, derived from incorporations, groams in residences, etc. In the same way, we took 14,486 residents with a full regimen and 1,129 with a single dose; 19,063 health workers with two doses and 44,025 with a single dose, and about 5,000 people with a single dose of health care. In total, we have 170,570 yellows and yellows vaccinated, of which 58,000 already have the second dose. However, I must express the satisfaction of the Galician Union of the agreement reached at the last meeting, or on the penultimate in this case, of the Interterritorial Health Council, which has already clearly identified the following target groups, which will be groups of ages in descending age from the age of 80, in the case of Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, and from 55 in the case of AstraZeneca. This agreement meets the request repeatedly by the Galician Council: to provide our population with a true future scenario on the point where the Greeks and the Greeks can wait for their vaccination. The rhythm may vary depending on the doses that arrive and the new vaccines that are incorporated, but at last the whole population has a clear expectation of when its turn will be, something that allows for a better future. Similarly, we have a clearer vision of future management of this pandemic thanks to the approval this morning, in this very plenary session, of a specific legislation regulating public health measures that an autonomous government can take in a situation of health emergency as we are, solving a deficiency that the Government of Spain has committed to solving and that it has never done. Having this regulation allows us to deal with this pandemic with better guarantees for the future. It is also important that the health system itself has expectations, certainty and tools to manage its future. We have often talked in this Parliament about the terrible consequences this pandemic has had in our society, especially in those families where one of their members had to be fired, and also in our economy, where different sectors suffered especially as a result of the restrictions. One of the groups on which we have called the most attention is that of health professionals, to whom we can never fail to thank the enormous effort made this past year. Though they count on the cover of their vocation, tiredness and uncertainty about the end of the pandemic has been making mellow in them for months. So we announced last week the new Psychosocial Intervention Plan for Sergas staff support and care, where we will invest half a million euros, and with which we want, in addition, to recognize the work carried out by the more than 44,000 health professionals and to meet the possible impacts on their health and well-being of workers. The pandemic has brought psychosocial consequences to our population: the economic situation, health, fear... all this situation has with powerlessness, fear, uncertainty, but health personnel also suffer from the underlying working conditions in the context of the health crisis. Therefore, with this plan we intend to take specific measures for the support and attention of all those who are part of the team of professionals who make up Sergas. The pandemic has brought with it, for the workers of the Greek health, a greater demand for care, and not only the burden itself, but we live an unknown situation, without precedent, in addition to a greater emotional demand for fear of infection, especially because of the gravity situation of many patients, and as an exposure to the suffering of many families with the isolation of the patient who carries this disease. Along with that, I have had an important impact on personal life because of self-confinition to which some have submitted themselves and because they have to limit care to vulnerable relatives or simply reduce contact with their cohabitants for fear of exposing them to a contagion. We believe that having a support plan will allow, in addition to preventing possible health problems, to improve the quality of services provided and, logically, correct care for professionals will also give better attention to patients. The first thing we're going to do is to reinforce the recognition for all our staff, to feel valued; to highlight, in addition, the work done; and to highlight the positive, since they've faced an unknown disease, with new procedures, with the burden of using personal protection equipment, treatment with elderly patients, etc. That's why we want to keep highlighting the work of our workers, who knew they were up to it. The entire Greek society must continue to support them under the motto "Thank you therefore," since your work was fundamental to confronting us with that pandemic. To do this, we will install thank you mailboxes, a specific email account, in addition to a space where incoming messages will be displayed. We will also, when the situation permits, take time to meet again to contact the patients who took care of them in hospitals during their convalescences. And, among many other issues, we will implement a specific program called Care to Care, we will build specific equipment and equip each health area of a psychologist for the support and psychosocial support of the staff. By the hands of these professionals, 111.167 patients diagnosed with coronovirus have passed to this day, who must also now face their future. Although the experience and knowledge acquired in recent months regarding this disease can improve the treatment that was given to those who needed hospitalization, both they and many of those who passed the virus in their homes suffer the side effects caused by cowardice-19 today; not only those caused by their own illness, but also, in many cases, the consequences of long periods of immobilization in hospitalizations. Although we know that these consequences on patients' health were addressed by both specialists and their primary care doctors, we considered it necessary to create poscovid units. That is why I have already told you that Sergas intends to launch multidisciplinary follow-up units in which an integral approach of the patient will be carried out, which is necessary to have a protocol of care for these patients and a functional plan that covers the resources of the two levels of care: primary care and hospital care. Many of these are the effects that patients may suffer from pulmonary injury, cardiovascular diseases, such as arrhythmias, myocarditis or heart failure, even neurological effects, including headache, vertigo, loss of taste or olfactory and in more severe cases, stroke or instability of the march, in addition to the deterioration of the cognitive level, which has been occurring in the older population as a result of isolation and loneliness. Psychiatric alterations have also occurred, since the signaled and called "pandemic phage" is the greatest risk in these patients to suffer from depression or anxiety. That's why it's necessary to address the care of these patients efficiently, in a homogeneous, standardized and of the highest quality, once they overcome the acute phase of this disease. The units will consist of specialists in internal medicine, pneumology, primary care, nursing, and will count on a coordinator. In addition, we will also create a poscovid clinical committee to attend and follow up on more complex cases. Thus, with patients who did not require hospitalization, their follow-up in primary care will continue, and if so, if the patient continued with symptomatology for three months after the diagnosis, an interconsultation would be requested to the unit. And in the cases of patients who were hospitalized, follow-up will be carried out directly from the unit through the Telea program, or the phone, with presence consultations in the third, sixth and tenth months, and may be given discharge for primary care after each of the presence consultations in case there is no change related to the disease that motivates the entry. In this way, we seek to give full attention to all patients who have suffered from this disease and proper treatment to prevent certain functional or organic alterations from becoming permanent. If we were talking about the hideous patients, we can't forget the non-covids. I'd lie if I told you that the pandemic hasn't absorbed much of Sergas' resources, but, just as after confinement we're working to cut back on the delays that could have occurred in a surgical waiting list, also now, after this third wave and with the expectation of vaccinating the most vulnerable population in the coming months, we'll put in place the plan of recovery of activity. We are working on quantifying both the staffing and human resources needs to enable us to address the pending activity that had to be suspended as a result of the coronavirus. I would like to recall that in this third wave, the largest wave in which we have reached the greatest peaks of occupation of critical and infected beds, surgical activity in hospital centers has not been suspended, the difference, of course, of the first wave. In fact, in some cases it was used to advance in outpatient surgery, which did not compromise the occupation of surgical critics' beds. This plan of speech will be provided with at least EUR 15 million, which will enable us to continue to strengthen our system in order to be able to program, once the pandemic permits all the activity pending and to continue with the planned attention, in addition to financing all the extraordinary activity necessary to restore the deadlines for pre- pandemic tests. In this sense, this activity recovery plan will be addressed by strengthening the concept of a single hospital, to enable the system to optimize its full capacity in solving all activity, especially when it comes to time-dependent pathologies. Thinking that we overcome the pandemic, we have to think about the health system we want and need for the future. That's why we're already designing tools that allow better access to both medical care and information by users. We have designed a new application, called Sergas Mobile, in which, in addition to improving access to already intuitively-assisted applications, new facilities will be introduced, such as access to virtual health card and videoconsultation. In this way, we aim to bring health closer to citizens, allowing them to have tools that they can access information more easily, such as the active medication sheet, and also to facilitate shift collection in queries, etc. Although, as you know, my commitment is to achieve the highest percentage of presence, in the case of teleconsults that occur, our goal is to improve communication with the patient. As I said, we will progressively implement -- if the tests have been done -- the so-called videoconsulta, which will undoubtedly improve the quality of attention in cases where it is not possible to have that presenceal attention or in cases where the doctor and the patient feel that by videoconsulta the problem can be solved. Nevertheless, of course, we will continue to work to regain the presence, as I have promised in this Parliament. In fact, the final data of the year show that almost 40% -- 38.67% -- of primary care medical consultations were already present. And if we take into account the overallity of consultations that all primary professionals make, we see that the data of presence reaches 58%. In the Council budget for 2021, we have an important share of more than 18 million euros for the renewal of computer equipment, which will enable us to move forward in implementing these measures. Finally, and as I went ahead in the appearance of general lines of this board, we'll start the work to count as soon as possible to the integral health strategy; a new rector document on which health priorities were made, the means to address them and the health outcomes to evaluate them. One of the issues we have to deal with is primary care. The group of professionals who make up this service has made an important effort in recent months. They and they are the gateway to our system, and they have seen their load increased as a result of this pandemic. These professionals are closest to patients, so we need to resume as soon as possible the process of shifting the model to primary care where patient care is prioritized and health care contains all the resources for this. That's why it's necessary to modify different decrees, which requires an important study in the current legislation, and their chances of reform. And that's why I want to announce to you that so that the struggle against the pandemic doesn't last this goal anymore, we've decided, within the Health Council, to create a department dedicated exclusively to this task, so that it can be done from now on, precisely, to carry out a planning work for this future. Finally, we continue to work so that we can give all of the Greeks the best possible health care and also offer the best conditions for the health care professionals in the Greek public system. We hope to be able to count on you in these many complex challenges that are ahead of us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u137	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u138	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. This is your second appearance -- I think -- in full since you've been a counselor -- let me get the chascarrillo -- while the minister you've criticized, who's been a minister recently, has been in Congress for two months. You tend to give a little less explanation, but it's good that you come in so you can share some things. The situation, as you say, is serious. Although the trend is descending, it's serious, we share this that you said; an analysis that we believe to be very correct at a key point, because going wrong now would throw all the facts out of the ground in recent times, especially in the last few weeks, however, succeeding would allow you to accelerate or at least maintain the trend. Let's say we're probably, as all experts say, at a point in the model where we'll be able to assume it's the most key thing we have. We probably now have to decide -- although that's not the word -- as a society if we continue or not. That's why it's important not to be mistaken, and we wish this government, which makes the decisions, that it is not wrong. As we moved it many times, we share the decisions of the Government; sometimes we can agree more or less, but we share them, and if we think we're wrong, we share them, too, because it's very difficult to assume situations like this. It's true that we were able to finish something else. We share situations of government that are political, because I keep reading every day or every two days that the "Clinical Committee has made decisions." No, it's not true, even in official communiqués that spread the Galician board and say "Clinical Committee has agreed..." No, the Clinical Committee reports, because, if it had agreed, it didn't announce them, Feijóo two days earlier. Well, last week he also announced them and you had to go out and say no, but we thank him for stopping his feet a little bit. In any case, if you don't agree with each other anymore, imagine... Let's be sensible about that. You have moved here, in addition to this situation, a perspective on how we will have the health of the future. And it's true, we have ten minutes of intervention, we can't get into the whole debate, but it seems interesting, and that's why we systematically bring initiatives. Tomorrow there's an oncology about BNG; we've been considering this debate before the end of last year. We are very interested in dealing with the issue of mental health, and we have undertaken initiatives that will come to the debate very soon. Anyway, we think there's some spaces improving there. I remind you, just by setting that example, that in oncology this parliamentary group of what I am a health voicer has proposed here studying the possible reduction of diagnoses by 2020, and even doing a study, and took the opposing vote of the People's Party. Today, by the responses of this group you're talking to, you're already assuming you've reduced by 10%, but it's probably more. So let's see if we're able not only to say that things are done, but to work for them. We are going to talk especially about the situation that has brought us here in terms of pandemic, because it is the main one, in addition to the situation of difficulty and sharing that decisions are difficult. There is a question about the measures, and we believe that some things are better; as we say, not in the context of the measures, that, if we think about them in private, we think about them and we move them, but not in any case, if on some peripheral issues, for example, on systematic and uncoordinated ads. It causes a certain misunderstanding to see -- I mentioned some cases -- as if an "unbroken break" was announced ten days ago. As soon as this government feels pressured, it starts making ads. Another thing, no, but this government with announcing things is very good; what happens is that they don't do them later. So, the people who are in trouble with the businesses, who are with the blinds down, who are with the refrigerators stopped at the inn, saw as one day Mr. Feijóo said to him: "On Monday we went off," which the next day you said, "Uhmm... it's not wise," that the next day Mr. Feijóo again kept us from escalating and that you had to go out again saying that he wasn't careful. And, at the end of the day, no one knew whether we were climbing or not, and it was not then and what is this; less than what was to be said, more than that, and, as always, at the end, a sudoku must be done to know the measurements. It's important to have some clarity, because people who are sick, still above them, can't stop a situation where they don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. It's very difficult to make long-term forecasts, it's very difficult to make forecasts even in the medium term, and it's not easy to do them in the short term, but at least we don't add some slack. It gives the feeling that -- and we repeat this several times -- the opposition is more concerned about being loyal to finding solutions than you, which seems to be more worried about the story and the picture. Let's see if we can get out of it. You quoted the crows, a good measure. There's some disorder in the crabs. There are some populations that are made in the same place and others that are sent to them. Remember that in spring this government went out in the thromb talking very badly about the students. The students of Santiago were the culprits of everything. There was a snake and they had a lower incidence of the copper than in the rest of the population. No one even apologized to them. Let's see if they're gonna do a trick again to blame them for it. It also happened to them at the inn, who were the culprits, and ultimately the servants of the inn didn't prove that either. [[Applause]] As far as resources are concerned, we've been asking for more personal time. It's not enough staff we have to vaccinate, as much as they want to sell multiple numbers in a calculator. The reality says no. You're already starting to assume that we may have to go to primary professionals, who are very good. They're very good, but the question is, why don't you hire and keep primary professionals, who are already saturated, who already have a difficulty doing the job. Why are we gonna get out of there and hire? If you hire health personnel now you are probably the most socially applauded measure, the most generous you can understand! Besides, in terms of cost -- we're wise -- hiring health personnel today to vaccinate is not a cost, it's not; it has no real impact on accounts and budgets, and more when they have 1,500 million euros that came from the Government of Spain. Vaccines. Vaccines are a collective success, despite some interpretation that you wanted to make this morning -- certainly nauseating -- some questions. Vaccines are a collective success, we say it constantly; a success of all: of science, first of all, of citizenship, of patience, and of governments, of administrations, who put them in place, who negotiate them in Europe, who distribute them in the governments of States and, in our case, to distribute them to the autonomous communities. This government pays a lot of money for collective success. If he's own, he likes it very much, but if he's collective, he doesn't like it anymore. And we tell him: this government is part of that success, but it seems they want success alone. They are in this permanent vision, in this world of the Puigdemont Government. You're a little bit like Puigdemont: "Spain us clothes" always. And distribute this idea that the spread of vaccines or the spread of vaccines is uncertain. By the way, with some calculation that wouldn't get past first math about the percentage of people we have in a population has to be proportional to the vaccines we received from the Government of Spain... No, no. Look, the vaccine agreement is made, you're part of the agreement, you've signed that agreement and the deal is good because what you say is basically we're going to receive the vaccines according to the percentage we have of each group with respect to our population. I mean, if we have to vaccinate at 8, we'll receive 8; if we have to vaccinate at 100, we'll receive 100 and if we have to vaccinate at 200, we'll receive 200. Because to say otherwise is to say that people will not be vaccinated. You mean people are not going to be vaccinated? Do you want to implement this fear strategy? The vaccines are about to distribute, and all we have to do is get all the vaccines that the pharmaceuticals have now arrived. But the distribution is agreed and, of course, all population groups will come at the moment they have to arrive. To say otherwise is to lie directly. But this government breathes manipulation; sometimes it's a bit unbearable tuft. In any case, if you agreed -- and I'm glad you said it here -- some things about the interterritorial, the penultimate in this case, and they agreed on some progress, which they did, we congratulated them. We think that's the way. Besides, it's the famous interterritorial on December 23, in which you've agreed all this that now and then some members of your government are going to criticize, even though they have signed it, but, you know, this reminds me a lot of some governments, those who say that the guilt of everything is from the other always, from Spain mainly. All right, Spain is there to blame it; it's a historical function too, in any case. What we say is that this level of commitment and coordination that you are trying to develop is all right. And I'm sure some of the things you're asking us can see them in any other way, but in any case, we welcome those agreements. These agreements involve, among other things, those distribution calendars. Tell your government, because sometimes they don't know. But in addition to that, they involve action on groups. You'll see we don't make criticism -- and ask us for it!; I'm sure you too-- all the collectives believe to be the front line now, all of them. You know it perfectly well. We could be telling everyone we are. As you take on the collectives, it's well taken, because I'm the Government, which has to decide, and why doing so is very complicated. You won't see us making that criticism that everybody has to come out, that everyone has to be first line. No, because if all are first line, nobody is, and there's no need to be demagogic about it. So we believe in this government's ability to do a lot of good things, because, when it's waking things, it does it well. When he comes out to disagree just by generating tension, no, because, at the end -- and I move him back again -- we defend that this is a collective success if we do it right, but sometimes it gives the feeling that this government is more worried about the damn story and about other things. You have to count contagions and reduce them and not count votes or press headlines. We're not going to be found on that line, but, in collaboration, yes, and we wish him, as always, that we can continue to work so that this pandemic will overcome it as soon as possible; not too fast, because, if we want to go very quickly, we'll be late, but yes as we need it. In that sense, it counts on our loyalty to that plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u139	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u140	Good afternoon again. Thank you, Mr. President. In the previous plenary session we talked about how this third wave of the pandemic was developing, of which were the lines to be followed in the Plan of Vaccination against Covid. Since the BNG we have been warning during these pandemic months that it is important to limit improvisations to the minimum necessary and that there must be a clear strategy of action by the Government. You yourself, Counsellor, spoke of the plan designed, in which not only the characteristics of the vaccines were collected -- both from Pfizer and after from Moderna, and which in recent days also incorporated the characteristics of the AstraZeneca vaccine -- but also from logistics, organization, registration, application, training, etc., but which they simply lacked the exact number of vaccines to receive, which would be the frequency of the reception and which was the main conditionant for which they were not allowed to refine in their forecasts. Mr. President has already instructed himself to breast-feed on repeated occasions by making the dairy accounts of how much he would take to vaccinate the whole population if he drew the number he was asking for, and in the end, I believe that in the last calculation nearly hours of the day were left to vaccinate all the Galicians. You also announced that day that the vaccination of health professionals who were not on the front line and those of home help workers and how you were progressing towards the vaccination of large dependents and also those who are over 80 years of age. There seems to be a clear strategy of how to organize the different vaccination groups and that was more or less planned as it would develop. But yesterday morning we had a little surprise. Professional teachers from different educational centers, both primary and secondary, from different points in the country and from different age ranges received an appointment to be vaccinated without any other prior notice; citation that was given without more organization, which contributed to creating situations of difficult management, as it may be that a large part of the clauses was called warning with a margin less than 24 hours and without leaving room to design alternatives to care for the student. Thus, this morning, 200 teachers who were quoted at 8 in the morning in Montecelo waited hours for the carnage vaccine in a corridor, and while in numerous teaching centers the guard teacher was clearly insufficient to attend to all the students, so they had to be in the yards to be able to pay attention to them. But the best thing is, the story doesn't end here. This morning, the school management teams received notice that professionals were going to be notified; i.e., they warn today that they would be vaccinated, when they are already vaccinated. There were centers that came to receive this notification at 1 and 4 noon; a warning -- here it is -- that -- I have to apologize -- is very unserious and very unscrupulous. [[Mrs. Carreira Pazos shows a document.]] Even if it's simply for formal reasons, it's sad that a notification is sent without a signature, only with the logos of the Education and Health Council and with the member of the Xacobeo 2021. You don't know who sends this notice, if it departs directly from both advisors, if it's a general address... nothing. In this warning, we also collect an estimate of the time to receive the vaccine. The process will have a duration of 8 minutes, after which a total of 15 minutes must remain in the health centre to study possible serious adverse reactions. There are teachers, for example, who are working at the Institute of Living and who today have to come to Burela. I want to think there was no variation in this aspect. Usually this car ride takes about half an hour. I don't know where it's planned, where it's collected, that time of displacement, nor the possible delays in attention, that there have been, and that it has to be added to the absence of 23 minutes that is anticipated and that it will have to be assumed by the companions of these professionals. And all of this is happening despite the fact that previously Sergas had been asked a plan of action to avoid situations of chaos and disorganization, but this was what finally prevailed, sobbing the vaccination of teachers with those over the age of 80. And all these citations dance, in addition, when they are not known the criteria they followed to decide which professionals were vaccinated and which they were not. There are no clear indications and even the ages of the people quoted are mixed, contradicting messages sent from Sergas himself. I'm really glad, really, for the grateful ones who received the vaccine today, but let me point out that this looks more like a drum than a serious and rigorous vaccination plan, as it should be. [[Applause]] It is inconceivable that a procedure as important as vaccination should occur in this way, citing first the teachers, as I said, and without any warning to vaccinate them at 24 hours, notifying the centers that these professionals are going to be vaccinated the next day, when they are receiving those doses. And after all this, at the end of this process, it's when they meet with union representatives to explain the procedure that will be followed. It cannot be that at this point in the film there is such a lack of planning and organization; it cannot be accepted that, when we have spent a year -- one year! -- with this situation, the general point is improvisation and the absence of complete rigour. Although I'm going to point out a small improvement that they have introduced with respect to previous professional groups: given that vaccines in some cases may produce reactions after inoculation, which are mild, but which may imply that a certain professional cannot go to his job within the next 24 hours, it has been truly risky to vaccinate whole hospital services on the same day, which have even ended up producing that some of these services were working practically on minimum services by the amount of professionals who needed home rest. As I said, we don't have any kind of information on which are the following criteria for drawing up the citation lists and neither are the means by which it is expected to be counted towards a possible improvement in the rate of delivery of vaccines. And it can't be that we're always pending the latest fashion, this fashion that brought with it the latest changes in restrictions, which is to be pending the publication of the DOG at 11:00 p.m. Regarding the evolution of the pandemic, the fact is that the numbers of patients with active infection are improved, as are the numbers of patients who have entered, but it is more important than ever to avoid triumphal speech and not to lower the guard. Today we still have 146 patients enrolled in intensive care and 2,187 deaths have been accumulated since the beginning of the pandemic. And I'm talking about income in intensive care rather than ICUs, because these units have been full weeks; ICUs like the CHUS, where their professionals still keep their claims, even though you've already commented on the previous plenary that the work is already being bided for the needed reform that this unit needs. Why do they keep them? Because they're just 15 beds to 12, as if the UCI beds were left behind. And all of this is given, in addition, when they start to have greater weight the strains of the virus with greater potential for expansion and infection. The third wave of the pandemic has been and is being devastating to our country, and is that half of the deaths that have occurred since the beginning of the pandemic have occurred in the last three months, reaching to exceed for days and days the figure of 20 daily deaths; 20 people every day who have lost their lives because of this infection. Therefore, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, we believe that caution must be exercised when announcing escalations and changes in measures to avoid possible rebuttals. And it's just that this new escalation that was announced yesterday, with the incidence of disease in decline, happens when hospitals are still in a worse situation than when they started the pre-natal escalation. The truth is they improve the number of contagions, but if there's something that doesn't change and what no changes are about, is the situation of professionals in the public health system; professionals who've been working for a year on conditions that should be exceptional and that are almost assimilated as usual, with primary care drowned, and where far that figure you've given at the beginning of this 30-day legislation. Primary care is taking on an important part of the work of tracking and identifying suspected cases of covid-19, in addition to all attention to non-covid pathology and mental health care, which is already expected to be the large injured in the post-pandemic period. And all of this with a great bureaucratic burden that brought with it the pandemic and -- let me -- it's not at all negligible. You mentioned the Psychosocial Intervention Plan for Sergas staff support and care. As time runs out, I'll book it for my next intervention, because it can be important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u142	Good afternoon again. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We thank the People's Group for the Government's willingness to be transparent and to report on the evolution of the pandemic. We always thank you, in addition, either in this Parliament or in the presence of any media. At the previous plenary session, the Socialist Group regretted that the president of the board no longer appeared both in the press and during the first wave. They said it was because, now that he had the responsibility, he was hiding. But it turns out that last Monday he gave a press round and already the Socialist Party's spokesman came out to complain that he was TeleFeijóo. It seems good to us that the Board gives information to the media, to Parliament or to the general population, because citizenship at this time needs information; true information. In the face of such a trepidation of facts, truth is appreciated. To manipulate and embarrass are already the others, the opposition groups. It doesn't surprise us, because, look, it's the usual one: if we do, because we do, and if we don't, because we don't. Now we vaccinate too fast, we abuse... You don't understand, there's always something. This weekend, in Santiago, we had the misfortune of having a sort of top of the disinformation here: the negationist groups of the pandemic arrived from different places and leaping through all the current regulations went through the streets to disinformation about the Health Act, while the opposition groups gave press rounds to disinformation in the same sense. A strange competition... so it was, so the story is written. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Counsellor, this weekend the negationists of the pandemic throughout Spain have come to Galicia to join the indigenous negationists, who have been denying the reality of Galicia's public health system for years. Those groups that have been denying the improvement of our public health for years, making prophets of the dismantling apocalypse, had to see how primary care -- who have been saying that she is saturated for years -- could take care of the follow-up of more than 20,000 patients who have surpassed the shelter at home, with the assistance of primary health care professionals, and how these hospitals that have been saying that they have not been able to withstand peaks of more than 200 patients sheltered at critical units and over 1,200 patients in hospital. And also those health infrastructures that they demonized, such as the Public Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, made it possible not only to care for patients in the health area, but also to receive patients from other areas with more problems and even to offer space to neighbour Portugal. This was and is being the reality of Welsh health in this third wave, a painful wave for the entire population and for health professionals, but which was used to show that we have strong public health, resource hospitals, powerful primary care and a template that, with the necessary reinforcements, was able to cope at the same time with the toughest wave of the pandemic and the beginning of the vaccination process. This is the verifiable and demonstrable reality with data. Of course, we must remember those who are no longer, of all the people that this third wave took before time. We're with them and their families, but I think that both of us and their families have that comfort to know that the Galician Health Service has always had all the resources at its disposal to never give them away for their loss. He fought for all of these lives until the end and never lacked personal or material means to attend to them. No one who needed a hospital bed or an ICU bed was left without her. This, of course, doesn't mean we're conforming. From mid-December until today we lost nearly 1,000 Welsh and Germans. This is far more than any society can tolerate or assume as normal. But these data that you have shown us are possible not by chance, not by luck; luck and chance in health do not exist. This is the fruit of a government that manages, takes balanced and sensible measures and, in addition, takes them with scientific support, because it relies on an independent clinical committee and its composition is completely transparent. That's why we congratulate the advisor on the progress he's announced today to have a safer escalation and to have an effective vaccination plan that protects the most vulnerable people as soon as possible. Those and not other measures are the ones that will free us from having to live a situation like these last few weeks. And allow me to trust the criteria of this government and the Clinical Committee that advises you, so questioned here lately. A committee to which the Government, in spite of the scorn of some opposition member, appreciates and takes into account the work they have done since the beginning of the pandemic. Of course, the measures taken in this committee are consistent and, of course, taken into account by the Government. The measures taken during Christmas were called into question here, although they were much more strict than the Central Government proposed. But it does not matter, in this Parliament we have a PSOE who insists that we take the mistake of paying too much attention to the PSOE Government and not moving further away from what has been recommended since this ministry. I'm sure everyone can be wrong in their predictions. The virulence of this third wave surprised the governments of all colors and, unlike the first wave, without having superior instances insisting on warnings. So I also encourage the Board and the Committee to collect more and more data to further refine their forecasts, but I make an even more intensive recommendation: that, when we talk about forecasts, they never listen to the Socialist Party. The Socialist Group talks a lot about admitting mistakes here, but we still don't hear them apologize for their first mistake of this legislation, which was to ask for the autonomous elections to delay beyond the summer. That same Socialist Party, which now talks about that the Board had no forecast in the third wave, literally said that making elections in July was a lottery and I proposed to take them to September. In July, when the autonomous elections were held, the impact accumulated at 14 days in Galicia was 9, the positivity of the tests was 0.3% and there was a total of 230 cases. Never since the end of July, we've had data as low as those again, and they haven't recognized the mistake of questioning that election date, which has been set up with the scientific criteria of the Board and the Clinical Committee and proved to be true. A few days ago we saw another guy from that very PSOE who said here in July that we were putting the situation at risk for voting in those conditions and that he had mayors asking for the suspension of the elections. That same PSOE applauded his minister Illa during the electoral campaign that took place in Catalonia, with an cumulative impact of 14 days -- which we had here from 9-- over 300 and with 25,000 active cases in Catalonia. [[Murmurs.]] The same ones who here called us irresponsible for making the elections in Galicia at the best time of the epidemic applauded that the Catalan elections had been held at the best political moment, for them, of course. If our December measures were for the Galician Socialist Party a strategy to save Christmas, what would it call those more lax measures proposed by the Ministry? Perhaps they would be measures to save the candidate Illa. Therefore, Counselor, it is very hard to see that those who have never recognized those obvious errors as these come now demanding others. And the same is true of the Galician Nationalist Block. We've just seen how the measures taken by Junta in Galicia managed to reduce the incidence by 80% in 20 days. Are they really not going to recognize the mistake they made when they said that the measures at the Board were patches and that it took a total confinement of 15 days to get those results? What effect could that total closure have had on you so cheerfully? Of course, effects on employment, effects on self-employed people, on businesses, but also social, health and mental health. And that's what you preach they're next to the people. You always put the easy solution forward, regardless of the costs that this might entail, and again, the figures show that you're wrong, that you didn't need that total confinement to reverse the trend and bend the curve. But you won't recognize that mistake either. It's true that we left the third wave thanks to the measures of the Union, of course, by not staying with the lax model proposed by the PSOE or with the radical closure proposed by the BNG, and it's true that, thanks to this prudent and measured attitude, we can see the future with optimism. We are grateful to have a government that is also looking to the future in vaccination, in the future treatment of patients who have gone through covid and in the recovery of health activity for many non-covid patients, who have seen their consultations or interventions postponed, in the creation of this post-covid clinical committee or in the integral health strategy. We thank the Counsellor for continuing to work with this long-term vision in the health system and for not keeping the reproaches, the false controversy and the anecdotes with which the opposition wants to impede this debate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u144	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, first of all, I would like to thank you for your intervention. And beyond thanking him for the tone, I certainly will not agree with you, obviously, in some statements he has made and that, if I may, I want to nuance. [[Murmurs.]] I believe that Galicia's situation has begun to reverse a good epidemiological situation soon, indeed, as a result of the measures that -- I remember -- we took on January 13th. Really, we never stop taking action. Since July we've never stopped taking measures week after week. And, in particular, at Christmas we took measures the previous weeks -- I will talk about the agreement on December 23, if I may-- We took measures at Christmas itself, keeping closed municipalities that had accumulated incidences under our protocol, which is still the same, by the way. And after that Christmas period, we took action on January 13th and January 26th, at the worst moment, practically. I used to comment on the data of hospital occupation and in critics, Mrs. Carreira -- that I'm always talking about critics, that I'm never talking about intensive care units, that they won't listen to me talking about ICU -- at the worst moment of critics and hospitalization, we've taken important steps, and before those measures even started giving the results, we've already seen the results of the measures, which were also important. In fact -- I repeat -- the biggest changes were noticed a few days after that January 27, which shows that the measures we took on 13 were actually effective. I repeat: the peak date was January 30 when the toughest measurements were taken on January 27, with which the board anticipated. Well, those good results produced in many sectors the logical expectation of opening as soon as before to resume that one that we now call "normality," and even seeing other autonomous communities that with values still above our own already advanced in that escalation. That "pressure" for taking action led to a situation where any day we left the president or me, or anyone in the Government, if I was wondering what the measures would be for. I heard it as a first person and heard it in the media that when the president was asked what steps he was going to take, he said it would be proportionate and progressive. That was the phrase he said one day and that I repeated the next day. There wasn't, in that sense -- I have to bring you the opposite -- no kind of discouragement. We had all made it clear, too, that the Clinical Committee, which, of course, I agree with you that it does not make the political decisions, but it does sign them the president and me; that is what I think is never said otherwise. But if it is true that we support the Clinical Committee, as we believe it is the right thing to do. That gives us a wide range of views with different sectors, such as primary care, which seems not to be on the Clinical Committee; yes, primary care has four members. In fact, it's the most representative group in the Clinical Committee. That's what I'm saying to some association or foundation that criticizes the Clinical Committee, not you. But to that association, if I want to tell you that primary care is perfectly represented, and if you don't tell us that names and surnames of that primary care committee shouldn't be on that committee and those who propose to replace them. Having said this, I say that the Clinical Committee also, of course, around those we have been week after week and day after day, in many cases, maintain that caution, which is what we have said to the President and me. We said it three weeks ago, two weeks ago and today; yesterday the president said it and I just said it now: we're going to open because the epidemiological situation allows it, but with great caution. I used to say some time ago that the evaluation was positive but prudently, and today I just said the same thing. In that sense, Mrs. Friend also said this: all the prudence we have to put up with on this escalation. So first of all, I have to say there was no such disagreement. Fully according to you that there are other pathologies, and I just say it now: non-covid pathologies, surgical aspects, the delayed aspects of diagnostic tests, of course. I don't think it's up to me to say here that the health care of the rest of non-covid patients is unaffected. That's very easy to see that it's not like that. I also have to say that just in the field of oncology it was where greater efforts were made to maintain that activity. And I was saying, I'm saying and I'll say that the oncological field from the point of view of the structure has not diminished any of its resources; there have been no fewer medical oncology consultations, no less radiotherapy oncology consultations, no less treatments from either of these two areas, and of course there have been no fewer surgical interventions from oncology patients. You're talking about that 10% reduction, because we actually gave it to you, because you ask us. I think we've been taking sixty questions since the parliamentary period began, and some answer a little later than others -- I also have to say -- but by flow of information other than that. In the last question you ask us, and we gave you the answer that there is a 10% decrease from January to October 2020. If we count from January to December, when it's passed over all summer and the first wave, that decrease just goes to 7%, and in addition, it's in the same order as the 2018 data. So even in the first consultations, in the field of oncology, I have to say that, in general terms, the oncology care of patients in Galicia has been maintained. And besides, I have to say it not for me, but for justice to the professionals in those units, who in the pandemic were of the few services that they didn't close. These were kept not only open during the morning, but many of them did afternoon and evening shifts to maintain the treatment of oncotoxic patients. So I can't consent, or admit, or tolerate willingly, to say in this parliament that attention to cancer patients decreases in Sergas. I can talk about Sergas, I can't talk about other autonomous communities, where probably the impact of the pandemic was much greater. But I also find it unfair that these impacts in other areas end up splashing -- I repeat -- professionals from the Galician Health Service, who have never stopped caring for these oncotoxic patients. As far as mental health is concerned, you know that we have a mental health plan in development, which I think has already degraded in the corresponding commission, and we will continue to implement this mental health plan, because we already said it before the pandemic, and now with more reason -- actually, I agree with some of those who intervened before -- : probably, the aspects of mental health will be of the aspects that we will have to take care of once this situation turns. Speaking of the pandemic, you were talking about some disorder in the squats. Blessed are those who have fallen and cursed is the disorder! I think Galicia in this sense, I don't say that because of the data we have now on the table, that -- as I said before in my intervention -- they put our autonomous community in the first place in the ratio of evidence by 100,000 inhabitants; quite differently, by the way, today with the second. But such aspects as those of residential workers, which were done every week and if they're doing each week, 17 thousand workers who are doing a weekly spit at least with saliva and so many of them with antigen tests, I'd like you to do that review that you sometimes do around the world told me which country or health region is doing a job for the residents, the residents' workers, twice a week with different methods. I really don't know them; if you tell me, I can compare the data. So, obviously, when such processes are implemented, where I was saying in my intervention -- I think it's fair -- that I think we have collaborated with the municipalities, with many of the municipalities, with all the political colors, in the realization of these slaves, and being an active part of the mayors and concellers of these processes, in collaboration with the local police, that -- I repeat -- I would like to thank and again thank those coordinating tasks, and the pilots were -- I have to say -- for an epidemiological matter. Sometimes, we had to explain why one guy was made in a municipality and not in the other, and why one was made or done with saliva and another was made with PCR. There is usually an epidemiological reason, since antigen tests are oriented towards a specific type of cumulative incidence, saliva for others, PCR for others, symptomatics, asymptomatics. I -- as I say -- I fully trust the public health team, which is what usually establishes with the territorial heads the most suitable ones in each case. With which I must take the opposite of this as well, as the coordination with the president in the disorder of the cowards. I honestly don't think the professionals who do the slaves or the people who access them deserve that "disorder" label. As for the staff, I don't know how to explain it. We've increased about 10 percent of primary care personnel. There was -- yes, Mr. Torrado -- 2,000 nurses in primary care and we've hired 200 nurses in nursing, Mr. Torado, that we've raised about ten percent of primary nursing staff. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why do I say we increase it? Because we asked for volunteers in primary care, those that took one step forward we replaced them with others; then, those 200 come out of primary and are mostly replaced. So we have 200 more nurses, who are doing a job -- I don't get tired of saying it -- awesome. So, I'd like this too to be said so much by you, that -- I repeat -- in the tone I was recognizing it, like Mrs. Carreira, that it seems that we didn't hire anyone and that here everyone is with the same resources as I had before. [[Applause]] Those 200 nurses, at a rather assuming rate of vaccination -- by information they themselves give -- can vaccinate forty-five people every day. If I multiply 45 vaccines per turn by 200 I get 9,000, nine thousand patients a day. Do you know how many vaccines we have up to date in Galicia? On today about 20,000 Pfizers and, depending on the week, 10,000 Astra-Zeneca, because of Moderna, believe me that I don't criticize the Government of Spain, it's not the fault of the Government of Spain that Moderna doesn't pass us her vaccines. But I'll also tell you when we get the vaccine data. After the meeting of the Interterritorial Council, before the press round, we're given the vaccine data. In the council, no; it won't be that the council serves for anything. After the council, they give us the vaccine data. And sometimes Friday afternoon. Well, it's okay. With those accounts, what I was going to do is that with 20,000 or more 20,000 other doses go out 40,000 doses a week. And the capacity of these 200 additional nurses is 9,000 a day -- nine times five is forty-five --. The bills come out, I can do them, too. So we have a primary care vaccination capacity that's almost twice the vaccines that come to us. It's true: we're waiting for more and getting ready to get us closer, but for now the vaccines that come to us are those, with which we can't vaccinate any more of the vaccines we have. That's right. We formed them in teams of two, they're going to health centers now to form primary care nurses so when they arrive, many of them can all be incorporated. This is the strategy. It's questionable, of course. But we're strengthening primary care and we're making vaccinations with these additional nurses, trying that the rest of the primary care nurses can now devote themselves to their duties. It's also true that if that avalanche of vaccines had arrived, I would ask primary care nurses myself to dump for a couple of weeks and vaccinate. Which, in addition, I'm sure you'll be delighted, because that's what I'm told. With which that strategy I think it's appropriate. Speaking of professionals, in Sergas, we have 3,100 more hired people than we had in March of last year. It may seem little to someone, too. If 200 is on the order of ten percent, these three thousand are more than six percent throughout the Galician Health Service. They hired when the first wave arrived; no one left for his house, no contract was cancelled. When they saw the second wave, they were strengthened in case it was necessary. And in the third wave, they got stronger and they're still there until at least May. All this fruit -- I have to say -- is the agreement that was signed with the union power stations to have that contingency plan there armed. So at the level of effort in human resources, both in primary care and in the rest of Sergas, I think that effort is important and, in addition, the situation deserves it. You said hiring right now is easier. Totally according to you. We hire the goods we have and we're strengthening with 3,100 more people in the Galician Health Service. You were talking about the number of vaccines we received. Well, I've got to bring him up against you, too, or I don't agree with you. I suppose you know, because from what I see you have access to the records of the Ponference of Vaccines meeting, that we on several occasions ask for the criterion of sending vaccines from group 1 and group 2. We've never received it, Mr. Torrado. They tell us it's for the number of residents, but nobody gave us the list of residents we have, and the list of Asturias. I recommend that you go every day in the morning to La Voz de Galicia and look at the chart of La Voz de Galicia, where the doses you receive are recorded in Galicia and how is the percentage of vaccination of the Galician population. Then you can see exactly what our doses of the population are. The doses are not reaching, at least for the first groups, according to the population we have. I also said that with regard to the 80-year-olds, for the first time, this minister, who you say transmits so much, said and committed in public that for the 80-year-old group we would receive 8.2% of the doses. Next week, which is when we get the first shipment, I'll confirm it, but for the moment, I learned by sending vaccines a few weeks ago not to say anything, until I have them in the fridge. So if next week we're here, I'll say that for the group of over 80, we get 8.2. For the rest of the groups, I have to say it's not true. And I repeat: we, Galicia, not for the merit of this counselor, but -- I repeat -- for the merit of these nurses in the public health service and the logistics network, have been vaccinating for many days; we are the most vaccinated community, the most put-in vaccines. You see, vaccinating as we vaccinate, the percentage of population we have, compared to other autonomous communities close to us. So there's a problem. In any case, besides, even if the data was correct, transparency! I can't see anywhere with which criteria if you sign the vaccines to Asturias, Galicia, Madrid, Catalonia and the Basque Country; maybe you do, I don't. No, I can't see it, I can't see what the denominator of Asturias is in group one, neither in group two, nor in group three. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's more: I have serious doubts that Galicia has the right data, because it's hard to see the data of how many people there are in the private, in the public. I could tell you the lists that come to us from different groups, the problems that we have to match, because it's true that it's a difficult subject. I repeat: to me that they gave me the data and could check the percentage, I'd be happy; I can't do this. I repeat that if I'm waiting for Pfizer vaccines next week to actually be met and we can vaccinate those over 80 years of age with that criterion. You were talking about the December 23rd agreement. I have to urge you again, and also bring you the opposite here again, that we signed an agreement with a requirement, that it was to be able to limit the number of family units. I also told you in public and in private, that we were told yes and then no. Besides, it was that by not saying that in any case you could go down from ten. That's why we couldn't establish as a measure that was less than ten, but we have to say ten or recommend two family units. In any case, I have to say, too, and I told him the other day, that the captain after him works very well. At that time, all the autonomous communities put in action that seemed appropriate to us. We were, as Mrs. Friend said, more restrictive, almost the most restrictive, because in Valencia they were more restrictive than us, with the limitation of mobility days to visit relatives, and the result finally was what it was. So I think in that sense that agreement was good. I'd like you to have adhered to the pact you had, but in any case, I think the problem was not in that agreement. Regarding the whole process of vaccines, what I'd like to know is how many will be received, with accuracy. As I said before, we have a lot of money to do programming because, unfortunately and sometimes for information reasons, and sometimes for other reasons, planning has to change. And I jump in this case already to Mrs. Carreira's intervention, which I will not thank for the tone, at all. I don't think I know how to say it, but let's talk about "tumble" -- with all the respect to the payers, said it's a step by step -- in the vaccination process in Galicia! But what do you live in? How can you talk about a tombal? We're talking about vaccinating 170,000 people with a dose, 50,000 with two doses. An impeccable process; with some mistake, of course, because there are many citizens we vaccinate. And you're talking about a drum here? Why, why would we send a text to the teachers twenty-four hours in advance? We, and I just said it a little while ago, and we said it today in the morning around the press, both yesterday and today we did a piloting test with the teachers, we analyzed the problems we had in each center to vaccinate, and we committed ourselves from tomorrow to vaccinate 50,000 teachers. Fifty thousand, group six! It's not an invention, Mrs. Carreira, it's in the Ministry's document, which establishes since February 9, which are the following groups. Group 6, you can see it here: 6A, state security forces and bodies, that we're working on the lists; 6B, children's care teachers, and group 6C, primary and secondary. You tell me how we prepare 50,000 people, and we call them so that no one looks like a drum, and you're less? [[Applause]] I have to claim, claim and claim in my intervention, and I always do it, the work of the people you're quoting, of the people you're calling, the people we pass who tell us on Friday the Ministry that sends us 20,000 Astra-Zeneca vaccines, that we call them, that call everyone. Look: last week, at the end of last week, which, of course, continued to vaccinate with all the usual intensity, we vaccinated the pharmacists. And of course the pharmacists told us they couldn't leave the pharmacy to vaccinate! I think the vaccine is such a critical process, so important and so exceptional that it requires exceptional measures, and if in a pharmacy, as it has happened, they call all members to vaccinate, most of them were delighted. I'd like that already! In fact, we're working and we've done that pilotage to put in mechanisms so that that doesn't happen. As it was done, and you don't understand what hospital I was in, with the doctors. The sanitaries didn't all vaccinate a service, at least it wasn't the instruction you gave. He took all the health care workers in each group: group 2, group 3, they got together and ordered alphabetically, and they quoted in alphabetical order, to try to reduce the possibility that they were four from the ICU at the same time. That was done in the hospitals, and done in the teachers. Precisely that test that was done yesterday and today, it was used the alphabetical order to try to reduce the possibility of what it said. But we can't otherwise look for a way that two teachers from the same center don't match. What we did, to avoid that situation in part, is to vaccinate by educational center, not by home, which was another of the things we've ever been raised. We can't vaccinate by home, because what we have is the information that gives us education or the private schools where the school is located. So, with the best of spirits, we did a test, which I didn't think two thousand people in 50,000, we didn't get to four percent of the test teachers, to see how we could do it. And in that process -- we made a mistake! -- we were able to sit with the education unions today. Don't I know what part of the drummer feels bad about this meeting today with the unions to move our point of view and receive their approach? So I have to demand once again the work of the people who are coordinating the vaccination campaign, the ones who are vaccinating. Because those teachers have been vaccinating them today specific nursing, which I repeat has 170,000 vaccinations in Galicia at this time, and I think they deserve, first, respect, and we can say that they have been misguided, that they've had a bad direction... but -- I repeat-- let me talk about "tumble" in this process. You're talking about the works of the ICU of Santiago. Yes, indeed, I believe that the governance of the area has been sensitive to that demand. It couldn't be done any other time. There's an administrative process that at the moment we have no choice but to comply, and, of course, we have met delighted, and it has been lawful -- as you know -- the day we announced it here. Among the demands made by the UCI workers is that they have boxed boxes and space boxes. The spaces we have at the ICU in Santiago, in the different spaces they can, force us to move from fifteen places to twelve. It's true, but because we're talking about closed spaces and a minimum, because making small closed spaces, in the end, didn't make any sense. We looked at the management and the service professionals. That's a twelve-fold reduction. At this moment, not fifteen or twenty, there would have to be a lot more. But thinking, because the works of this kind, of so critical areas, you have to do them with long-term forecasts, everyone thought those twelve beds were more than enough, so you gained the quality of the boxes. And I have to remind you -- and you know it perfectly -- that there's an area in the clinic, which is the one you're using from natural space to ICU now, which has at least fifteen more seats. So if the situation had become complicated again, we would have twelve boxes of the best possible conditions, which is the space we have now. So I think it's good news, though, obviously, I'd like it to be thirty in big boxes, of course. As for the escalation. Well, the same thing I used to say. This one I think was prudent. Of course, we have to have reverse mechanisms, and so have we always had them so far, and we had that document and we still have that document that allows us to go up and down, adapt to the situation, and we'll continue to use it as we have so far. You're talking about the role of primary care. I totally follow what you say: primary care is making a very good role in the containment of the pandemic. It's a tracker -- that work that sometimes it took to recognize the primary ones. Well, yes, of course we did, and we said it, and he's still doing it: they track a lot of cases. I have some information on the coupons, which is hard to keep if you're not in that coupon. They're tracking, they're asking for evidence. I also have to say that three or four months ago we set up an automatic system because every time they detect a contact, that PCR request to close contact is already done automatically, and they don't have to do it. But we will continue to work on removing that bureaucratic burden. I would in my appearance announce that revision as it was already planned before the pandemic, to put certain elements into the primary care hands to reduce that administrative burden. The very mobile health application I was commenting on a moment ago will also allow access to certain documents and avoid the need to go to the health center to collect, for example, a downside part. Of course we're thinking about that line! But in any case, I repeat: the role of primary is not questionable at all. We, if you want to look for us to say that you're not doing your role, nothing further, of course yes, and in this case we fully add to your speech on the role of primary care and, of course, the role of hospitals. As for the comments made by Mrs. Friend, we must insist on the role of primary care that you claimed and also, which we seem to forget, on hospital care. What would happen to the pandemic in Galicia without Lugo's new hospital, which this government has finished? It is true that another Government began to build it and was available. Also without Vigo's Alvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. Or without all the reforms we've done, for example, in Santiago hospital, with those emergencies that we opened just over two months ago. So with economic efforts in hospital infrastructure and primary care, I think we have one of the primary care better equipped at the level of structure. Which has been demonstrated or is being demonstrated in that period, enabling primary care centers to make differentiated circuits of coward and non-covid, or having spaces where professionals can rest without being together or sharing little space. In this sense, it should be indicated that in recent months, for example, in the Santiago area, we have inaugurated the Road Health Center, where yesterday people from all over the region were vaccinated in enviable conditions, or the Milladoiro Health Center, which we also opened a couple of weeks ago, and that was also the piloting point last Saturday. Not in a drum, but in a previous process of seeing how it worked to do it today with the maximum guarantees. And finally, I will end by thanking you, and taking the foot that Mrs. Friend gave me, the role of the Clinical Committee. He had commented before: the truth is it's a luxury to be able to count thirty-five people, that on Saturdays, on Sundays, on Mondays afternoons, on Tuesdays afternoons, every day they take time from their personal lives and dedicate it to reviewing the incidences, reading documents of all kinds, of microbiology, of vaccines, of all things, and making them available to the Government of the United States of Galicia. I repeat it's a luxury. There are other professionals who also do this and we thank them, but in particular these thirty-five professionals are there. Obviously, as Mr Torrado said at first, they help us, they give us opinions. Sometimes we strictly follow what we're recommended for, and sometimes we have to get to a half-point, where they are, too, because the thirty-five -- I assure you -- don't think homogenously. We must therefore insist on the Committee's claim. And I believe that with the support of the Committee, with caution, with the hospital and primary care structure we have, and especially with our professionals, we can make these epidemiological and vaccination data appearances better for the Greeks and the Greeks every time. And here I will continue to come as often as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u145	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now begin the opening of a special round of government doubly clarifications. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u146	Thank you, President. Counselor, you know that with this tone it's always much easier to argue, even in large disagreements, some small, and also in coincidences that we have. I want to thank you personally. I'm not going to get too much into non-covid health and poscovid health issues because, in addition, it would be to invade an initiative that BNG has tomorrow, and these are issues that would take us too long. I'm going to have some questions. Yes, we have that process with the pilots. We believe -- as I told you -- that they're very well, but they're kind of messed up on some issues; there's some obvious evidence to prove it. But at last we disagree, and it's not a discrepancy that will lead us to a real confrontation. You mentioned here a calculation. Let's see if we agree on things, that that calculation that you did here, that of approximately standardized at 45 vaccinations per nurse per day, that is, 9,000 that can be done in one day, is a calculation that we've talked about here; I repeat it here talking about vaccinations. Do you know why I brought that 9,000-per-day calculation here? For a calculation: 9,000 a day is 56,000 a week, and in ten weeks, 560,000. That's where I got here. In ten weeks Mr. Feijóo said we could vaccinate all of Galicia. But not all Galicia is 560,000. So, now explain this to me that you... I know what you're going to tell me: no, it's that when we get more vaccines, because of this... we'll get the primary ones. And we tell him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u147	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u148	It's amazing. It compares the counsellor, whom I debate with the counsellor, to whom they look worse than the counsellor. It's incredible! Anyway! We have to lower the tension, we must live with a little less tension, which is nothing. Quiet everybody! "If there is for all," as one day said here one. Counselor, what you're going to transfer to me is that we have primary professionals, because the 200s are going to do an unfettered, sublime job, and the top 200s are fantastic. But what we defend is that we don't withdraw from there, and can hire more to avoid having to depreciate the primary in these less personal times. If the question is: if we need them, we'll hire them. That's our plan. About the data. You complained that you receive the Ministry's data when there's press rounds. And the second appreciation you gave me for the data is: if you want to see them, go to the voice of Galicia every morning. [[Laughter]] We're going to leave him here, because I think the joke is done alone. [[Murmurs.]] We repeat to him what we have always repeated, despite the discrepancy: with vaccination more personnel is needed not to withdraw from primary school. With the difficulty of decisions, that -- how I often transfer it -- if there are errors -- that something was wrong to be where we are! --, we share them too. About the data -- let me -- if we joke about WhatsApp when you bring me the data. So there's nothing wrong with disagreeing. So, we understand the situation, we share the difficulty, and we give you some warnings about whether we think it needs to be clearer in the transmission of messages, because people are having a bad time. But we do understand the difficulty, and we are in that understanding plan as far as we are concerned. And the rest of my time I wanted to dedicate it to a question that I think is important. Excuse me, Counselor. Your friend, I think you've crossed a dangerous line three times today; you probably don't think it's legitimate. I can really understand, and I can be wrong, the position you have to defend. Well, you have to make some criticism of the opposition, despite the counsellor's appearance, which is quite understandable. You have to look for points that seem more annoying to the opposition to see if, in addition, you catch them a while in order not to... I understand, if it's normal. We understand all the discrepancies, the use and the different perspectives. You've crossed a very dangerous line three times, letting something shine on our convicence and my person, who are what I've been talking about, with the negationists. The negationists kill people, because their conduct kills people. What you've done today is not only serious, it's not your height as a Member and as a person, which is very high. That's why I planted it... it really affects me, probably too much, but that's my stuff. [[Applause]] It affects me, Mrs. Friend. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm saying it because indisputably that it might be my thing, I think what I put here is that we shouldn't cross it between us. Because the negationists -- do what I'm going to tell you -- against some official partisan speeches, they're not left or right, they're opposite. And I'm in front of you, of me, and I know that of all of us here. [[Applause]] There are parliamentary regattas that aren't worth it. The negationists kill people. I'm convinced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u150	...that there's no one here to hold them. I, of course not. And I know you're not either. But if someone out there tells me you're a negationist, I'll defend it. I don't ask you to do that, I don't say you defend me in private, but at least I ask you not to attack me in public for something that -- I really tell you -- is to cross a very dangerous line.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor of Mrs. Carreira Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, as far as I have left without a formulation in my previous intervention of the Psychosocial Intervention Plan for the support of Sergas staff, you have indicated, is gathered in this very plan: the fundamental pear or one of the first steps that will be taken is the recognition of the work done by these professionals. "Take care to look after," that's the fundamental aspect. My question is, what measures will be taken to improve the working conditions of this staff? Knowing that neither their council nor their government can control and make the pandemic disappear so with a hand stroke, what will be done to make this pandemic have the least possible repercussions on professionals? Because if what we're not paying attention is the cause of this malaise, this plan is what comes to be a palliative. You -- you said it on numerous occasions -- the 10 percent increase in the primary nursing staff. Allow me a little shade: they asked volunteers to form the vaccination teams and hired professionals to replace them. I mean, primary care is working with the same amount of staff, one more, one less, all the opposite. It is that if this contract did not happen, the holder would be very different, it would be that "Sergas travels and weakens primary care in order to develop the vaccination plan." He never doubted the work being carried out by health professionals, neither on my part, nor by any of the Members of this group. On the contrary, we recognize the work that professionals are developing in very difficult times, all of them, from ICU doctors to cleaning workers, who are truly the ones that are making Galicia capable of fighting the pandemic. Allow me to fade, because I think my words have been misunderstood. There was no criticism at any time that the vaccination of 6B and 6C groups was being initiated; that was not the object of the critique. Of course, the more we can move forward in the vaccination groups, welcome! What was criticized was the lack of foresight and improvisation with what was done. How does a pilot vaccination group develop warning twenty-four hours in advance, which does not allow teachers to organize their own lives, but does not allow educational centers to plan what they do with that student who no longer has a teacher or a teacher in charge. And so it was seen how many teaching centers had the children in the courtyard, because they didn't have enough guards to attend them. [[Applause]] To finish, Mrs. Friend, saying that at no time are any resources missing or professional is, at least, false. The agendas in primary care exceed 30 patients per day; 40 days, 50 days, 60 patients mentioned are not anecdotes. Nights in emergencies in the area where I hide patients waited hours to be cared for despite their risk; not only at risk for their individual pathology, but because they were patients suspected of suffering from cowardice. Oncological patients, who saw their surgical operations postponed because at the moment we couldn't handle that programming of surgeries. And there's no lack of ICU beds. Of course, ICU beds are not missing, because if you're using out of ICU beds; you're using critical beds that come from outside of ICU. It seems to me a vile thing -- as Mr. Torrado said -- to attempt to equate the position that the opposition groups have maintained with the amendment of the Health Act with anti-scientific groups, as can be the negationists. Groups that have nothing to do with us and that pose a serious risk to population and community health. [[Applause]] That seems to me like a disqualification that's not up to this camera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Group has the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u154	Good afternoon again. Thank you very much, President. I don't know where to start. First, I'm going to start with a clarification for Mr. Torrado and also for the spokesperson for the BNG, Mrs. Carreira. We hear here that we are dictators, that we are authoritarians, that we have dictatorial tendencies, that we will deal with the Bolivarians, with Bolsonaro... all that is not crossing the rail, is it? That's not crossing the line! [[Murmurs.]] I said and I repeat, and I said it in Commission 5th, and I repeat again today, is that this weekend there was a demonstration in Santiago that said that the law was authoritarian, among which there was a lot of negationist. [[Applause]] And I said this weekend you gave press rounds to disinformation in the same sense. And what I asked them to do was to clarify. And with regard to the Health Act, I said I understood that they didn't support her. But he also understood that they stood by our side to defend that the law was not authoritarian. Look: where they give, they take, and you have to be able to fit. [[Applause]] And, Mrs. Carreira, about the UCI beds, next time we talk about the ICU beds. And I repeat to you that in Galicia no one died for failing to attend. Another thing is waiting, it may be, but no one stood without answering. Counsellor, I reiterate again the gratitude of your presence and, of course, for your work in front of the Council, and more at this time, because the Health Council has never been an easy advisor, and you played it at a rather delicate moment. In the face of all these destructive criticisms, the terxiversations and negationism, we must act as the Government acts: with responsibility, with strength and with prudence. In these remaining months, there is still much to be built to deal with this future post-pandamy. We have to face a new escalation with new security mechanisms, such as those that I proposed to Junta and those we hope to put themselves in the Town Councils as well. We have to move forward in the process of vaccination, with those human resources that Junta has put into the dimension of this new stage, and for what we hope to have that percentage of proper doses to our larger population that has compromised the Government of Spain; because it became clear that if we have vaccines, we have staff to put those vaccines. And we have to move on in the restructuring of the health system after the pandemic, planning, regulation, organization, structures and also technology. We know that Junta is already working on those bases, not only for the ads she made today, but for what we've seen in these days. We have a council that's looking beyond the pandemic, and that's what we need to do right now. I'm going to talk about my province now. Last week you were there and there were renovations in the comarcas hospitals, both in the Navy and in Monforte; these comarcas hospitals that we were going to shut down and that they had so much to say. So we see that there are measures that are important, not only for the short term, but also for the long term. And there he is already acting in Galician Union. We hope to have news of that long-term vision. We want this health infrastructure plan that you have advanced in your past appearance; the Comprehensive Health Technology Renewal Plan, which is also included in the budgets of 2020-2021; the development of the Home Hospitalization Plan, with the creation of this month of the new category of Domicilio Care Physician, in which Galicia is going to be pioneer; the new legislation on the prevention of the addition of minors, whose content announced by luck last week in Parliament, where agreement was reached in Commission 5a; the plans on on oncohematology and on rare diseases, which we know are also developing, and that future health strategy, which will be launched. Finally, we trust the Council to put those long-term proposals into effect, because the opposition, unfortunately, has little to wait for in this direction. I'm done. We are living hard and difficult times, very complicated times, of which none of our generations remembers. But we have confidence and certainty that we have a government that manages, governs and thinks in the interests of all the Greeks. That, Counselor, gives us a lot of confidence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Doubling of the Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Torrado, in this case I'm going to start again for you, by order, and not by anything else. Well, I'm glad that, in the end, the disagreements about the crows are small. We can agree that the chosen method is ever improved, or the sectarian stripes of population that we have chosen. In any case, we insist on that strategy of anticipation, of detecting cases as soon as possible. To me, really, it also disappoints me when we do a hooker, we do the best 15,000 tests and we don't detect any positives. Really, I'm glad about that population, but I'd like that effort to isolate a case. In any case, it weighs joy that you didn't find any. Of course, I feel satisfaction when that device allows us to isolate 4, 5, 20 or 39 cases as we have, for example, in the pharmacy offices right now. I think it's important to cut as soon as the transmission chains, detect those cases, and isolate them. They're usually most asymptomatic cases that don't know they're positive. And I repeat: I think there we have to keep making a big effort to keep maintaining that high level of evidence that we're doing. You were already saying how you were going to answer the subject of 9,000. But I have to say this, Mr. Torrado: we have 2,000 professionals of primary care, who don't few transmit their intention of helping with the vaccine, they want; I have come up with several comments in that sense. And what we're telling them is that we have to wait, that we're going to maintain the ordinary activity of primary care for now, because the management of the chronic patient is important. And it's not a criticism, I don't understand it as criticism, because the number of vaccines we have right now to put on doesn't justify that. Of course, if the 2,000 put each 45 vaccines, we're in 90,000, and that's the data that the president transfers and I subscribe to. If we got 500,000 vaccines tomorrow, I hope it happened! there are two alternatives: we're starting to hire, because I guess you won't say we hired them before, in case the 500,000 are coming, right? Oh, yeah, can we hire them? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, we have to say no. [[Murmurs.]] We have -- I repeat -- 3,000 people hired more in Sergas to pay attention at a critical moment like what we spent these weeks ago, follow us. I want to insist on this point: none of us have stopped being with us, they're going to be with us. And it's true that if those 500,000 vaccines were arrived, we'd have to take them out, and I'm sure we have to get them from primary care nurses, because they know the coupons. We are now seeing in the vaccination of more than 80 patients who, although there is a very high percentage of patients who go to the health center, usually accompanied by their relatives, there is a percentage that cannot go to the health center, which we have to go to their home. For I believe that between homes and completing primary care activity I think it would be a mistake not to count on primary care nurses and their coupons. And that gives us a capacity, which is supposed to reach 500,000, of those 100,000-110,000 depending on how we move forward. And that's still our intention. Let's have a million hits? Well, we'd have to look for additional alternatives, which, of course, we're also considering. In any case, I repeat -- and I thank this acknowledgement to primary care nurses -- they're doing an extraordinary job, both those in the health center and those that we're strengthening. As for the data, we manage the data, I think with transparency. Any citizen can go to the website and see at the moment his or her cumulative incidence, do his/her calculations. We'll either complete the restrictions on that map, and we'll continue to do so. As far as now, with the systems we're setting up with the Clinical Committee, we're going to work -- as I said before -- with an accumulated incidence of 7, which we're probably going to have to anticipate. And with the information on the website or other resources, the citizen will be able to quickly see how their incidence evolves. And we're going to take measures probably earlier. Why are they going to be earlier? Because the situation of the new strains and that explosiveity seems to indicate that they will force us to respond faster. So I don't rule out that there's an automatism and that those decisions are made immediately, and they'll be taken with the data that's available. Another thing is the data -- and I'm going to explain it -- from Galicia's Voice, its news about the daily information on vaccines. I, of course, don't have that information, and I think they do. And there -- as I was saying -- it is demonstrated day after day that vaccines arriving in Galicia are not suitable at least the same way as other autonomous communities, because, equal vaccines and equal vaccination, some communities have a higher percentage of vaccinated population, and we have the one we have. In any case, we don't leave any vaccines in the fridge, and as soon as they arrive we do what we need, even sometimes doing piloting tests from day to day and warning twenty-four hours in advance, so that we can vaccinate as soon as those 50,000 teachers we're working on. And he also said that we're working with state security forces and bodies, which is another collective that we also have on the table to vaccinate. Regarding the Psychosocial Intervention Plan, Mrs. Carreira, I think it is known, it is published, it has moved to the union representatives, which mostly thanked him and saw positive things in it. You said you wanted concrete things. Is there anything as simple as having a psychologist for psychological assistance and support to workers who need it, to set an example, or recognition systems, or a series of other strategies that are set out in the plan? We think it's an important bet right now, it's always been. I believe that from the work risk prevention services we have in all health centers, as could not be otherwise, these aspects have always been contemplated. It's true that the magnitude of the pandemic and the impact it's had on many collectives, on some more, on others less, but generally throughout the health system, they've overflowed all the forecasts. I think we're at the right time for the length of this process, for the length of the situation, because it's past summer, it's over Christmas, and the current situation is going on. Precisely now it's more necessary than before, and that's why you make that decision now. In any case, I repeat that I think it's good news for the workers. We have a lot of hope in this plan, which really serves to correct this situation that we see from our colleagues. Of course, we must continue to appreciate the work of primary care nursing and, in general, of all primary care workers, who are doing commendable work from the point of view of the follow-up of chronic patients, who are still there and who they care for, and of course, all that first work, once identified a positive one, of doing that daily follow-up. We have already said here that the positives are following primary care and the close contact between them is following us in this case the military or the Contact Monitoring Centre. I think this job is well distributed and works well. It's a system, in addition, that was adopted when we're now talking about a low number of positives, but when we had days of 1,800 positives, we had to call 1,800, and sometimes for four or five, by their contacts, and our system, our primary ones, and especially the Contact Monitoring Center, it adapted to a situation that was really complicated. Our contact call tracking indicators did not fall by 95% or on the worst days of number of cases. I repeat: that is an important task of the primary care partners, who collaborated on their part, and also other structures that we had to equip ourselves with, because we didn't have them frankly and we had to equip ourselves with them. And to finish, I want to thank, of course, the interventions of all spokesmen; those who understand perfectly what we do every day, with more reason, and those who don't understand it and believe that there are still areas of improvement, of course, we will continue to work to make things better. It's very important right now, in addition to addressing the pandemic situation, that I repeat just three weeks ago that we were in a really complicated situation, and we took the measures to anticipate ourselves and that our health system was never compromised, and we moved forward with the measures that I said of January 13 or January 27th so that, as Mrs. Amigo said, no German had to stay without a critical bed resource, and so it was. I think we can proudly say that no German who needed the support of critics didn't have it. He had respirators, he had professionals, it's true with a great effort in many cases, and he had decent facilities to be treated. Unfortunately we couldn't have less, could we? I repeat that in that sense they were perfectly well cared for. Now that this situation has come down, we must continue to work among all in that most immediate model of living as we said before, observing certain measures, which will no longer be likely to be as it was time ago. We announced yesterday that, for now, the hostel will remain closed until 18 hours, and we will not see for a while, unless the situation so recommends, areas with restaurants or bars until 20 hours, which seems to us now that it is not the right thing. And these tougher measures for the host sector, or for other sectors that are in one way like the hostery, will have to be accompanied -- I repeat -- by much stricter follow-up measures, much more control, much more automation, because -- as I said -- by the variant situation, by the data we have from the microbiology services, even yesterday that were commented on in the press round, 63% of the average British variant or hospitals by 88%, make us very cautious. In that sense, I am also grateful for that addition to those precautionary measures, because I think that's what we have to have right now and then transmit it to the population. And then we keep working on all those infrastructures, because I'm going to cover it one day and we'll control it between the vaccines and all the work we're doing. We'll have to deal with the follow-up with cancer patients, but not just oncologics, but cardiologics or neurologics. And we have to continue to have infrastructures in spite of the fact that "the easy thing is to buy respirators," we also buy -- yes, Mrs. Carreira -- diagnostic equipment for surgical interventions, because we think we shouldn't care about that part, because patients with a tumor, and it's not surgical, we have to do something with them. If we have a chance right now in Santiago to have the first team of these features for a public system, I don't think it's to hide or say it, and at least criticize it. We will continue to do this with the health infrastructures, with this Health Centre Accommodation Plan, new health centers, such as those we have opened these days, and those we continue to build and those that we will continue to build in these coming months, and of course with all the hospital reforms. Because one of the teachings of this pandemic is that if you have a good health infrastructure, a good hospital infrastructure, the conditions for carrying such a pandemic are better than if you don't. We will continue to strive for the extension of the hospital in Santiago, ending the expansion of the hospital in Ferrol, with that new hospital in Coruña that we have already begun, with the reforms of the hospital in Ourense, with the reforms of practically all the comarcas centers that we have started with different intensities and, of course, also with all the technology, the diagnostic equipment... everything we have invested in these months in the areas of microbiology, for example, with which we are now a national reference or even -- I would say -- international in certain techniques, are fruit of this investment in infrastructure. Which, of course, has to go too, like not, accompanied by investments and efforts in professionals. Equipment without professionals can't work. And I think, once again, we've had the most professionals committed to the pandemic and to the Welsh health. So there we will continue and I will continue -- as I said before -- by coming to report whenever necessary, as I regularly do with government spokespersons and spokespersons as well. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u157	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to the next point, point 5, of motions. Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Iria Carreira Pazos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the new wave of covid-19 and the Strategy for Vaccination
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u158	We started with motion 5.1. No amendments were tabled to this motion and Mrs Carreira Pazos has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we've changed points, but we haven't changed the subject. As I mentioned in Mr. Counsellor's appearance, in this chamber, the Greek Plan of Vaccination against Covid was presented, which was perfectly structured and designed, in which all the technical characteristics of vaccines that were to be administered were collected, but also the indications of organization, registration and application, and even a training space for professionals. A plan that -- as I said -- only needed the exact number of vaccines that would be received in each shift of distribution and that would be perfectly structured. It was a plan that we then found out that he had small slots for the picnic, because he allowed them to be included in the personal vaccination lists that people shouldn't enter their early stages. We have seen: from senior executive positions of multinational companies to mayors. But since the Government, these vaccinations have been marked as isolated cases, such as timely cases, and yet the criteria for designing these vaccination lists have not been made public. It seems -- as I said -- that there was a clear strategy of how to organize groups. I commented on my previous intervention, and let me focus on the subject, which yesterday did give a little surprise when he advanced in vaccination of what the sixth group would be: teachers from different schools, different educational levels, different ages, who received an appointment to be vaccinated today without further notice. Citations that were left empty for the organization of the centers, with an important part of the cloister that had at least been marked for the same time slot and that were warned with a margin of twenty-four hours, without leaving room to design alternatives to attend to that student who was left without his teacher. A pilot project, so the advisor commented, to design the vaccination that will start tomorrow -- if I'm not mistaken -- of the teachers and that was given when it was earlier, from the educational community, if Sergas had been asked to draw up a clear action plan to avoid situations of chaos and disorganization. In fact, information was requested from this parliamentary group as to how the following phases of the vaccination plan would be organized; information that was not provided at any time. I said it earlier, I say it now and I will continue to say it: it is inconceivable that such an important procedure as vaccination should be carried out in such a way, citing the teachers without any prior warning to vaccinate them twenty-four hours ago, notifying the centers that these professionals will be vaccinated when they have been vaccinated, and after all this happens they will meet with their representatives to explain the procedure to them. There may not be such a lack of planning and organization at this point in the film. [[Applause]] That is why in this motion we are debating today, on the one hand, a detailed report is requested to be drawn up on how the first phases of the vaccination plan were developed, but also to draw up a comprehensive plan for the next phases. While it is not possible to anticipate the amount of daily doses that will be received, it is important that it be planned for how they will be distributed, which groups will receive them, who will administer them and how all this activity will be organized. After the events of these last twenty-four hours, where -- I repeat -- teachers waited for hours in hospital centers to be vaccinated, while the student was in the courtyard for not being able to receive any other attention, it is obvious that we need to have that plan; we need to have as much organization as possible, because vaccination is a matter that is serious enough to avoid improvisation, that they have just done the things fast, running or hurrying to have the best news of the day. And in addition, while this vaccination does not apply until it achieves the so-called collective immunity, the protection measures already known to all will continue to be needed to prevent new germs and repoints in the infection. Prophylactic measures that also include a tracking system that should be effective. We find ourselves in a situation where the newly described viral strains that have high capacity for infection and transmission are gaining an important presence in our territory. That's why we need all possible means to detect each new positive and cut the transmission chain early. Also, as the Counsellor mentioned earlier, in the successive phases of the Containplase Vaccination Plan which, if necessary, will be taken by the primary care professionals; professionals, nurses in this case, who are widely trained for this type of campaign. That demonstrates it year after year, both through the anti-gripal vaccination campaign and in the case of nurses who care for the paediatric population through the vaccination of this population. But this, which may sound idyllic about paper, contrasts with the situation that is going through primary care, which is the axis of the health system and which during this pandemic has not seen its staff substantially increased. Primary care that has been in the face of the challenge of responding, not to the follow-up, to the tracking of cases of cowardice, but that it continues to maintain all its ordinary care activity, with the follow-up of patients with chronic pathologies, with the home care of patients who cannot move from their homes and with attention to any psychological and psychiatric pathology that is beginning to trigger as worrisome after all this pandemic year. Professionals who have been watching the situation from day to day for months are more dramatic. And it's no longer a personal opinion of this Member, it's that the Galician Bioethics Council is all about this. This council, in its January 8 report on the ethical conditions of primary care, addresses a number of issues that I want to make explicit here. On the one hand, the intense and sustained care pressure in the time that these professionals are enduring; the limitation of access to face-to-face consultations. You gave the data before, Counsellor: 40% of the activity of primary care doctors had been present; 50% if you look at the whole of all professional categories. After all, 50% of all queries were telematics and 60% of family medical consultations were made on a telematic basis. I continue with the report of the Bioethics Council: the modification of patterns of usual clinical practice through protocols that are obsolete within a very short period of time; having to give preference to the care of problems related to cowardice; the increase in bureaucratic work of professionals; the variability of care processes in different health areas -- we have a Greek health system that does not have the same criteria in the Coruña as in Ferrol, that in Vigo, that in Pontevedra -- ; and the discontent, above all, perceived by the population regarding attention to the lack of information that the population has of the Galician population. All these circumstances are affecting two foundations of primary care: on the one hand, its long-termity, that is, continuous and permanent assistance while avoiding fragmentation of patient follow-up, and accessibility. Primary care must be accessible; any patient, at any time, must have the possibility of effectively contacting his head doctor, his primary care nurse, his dentist. That's why we consider the urgent reinforcement of primary care staff essential, because the health system axis cannot remain in such a weak situation, which has been dragging longer than it should. We believe that these measures taken in the motion that we present today are more likely to provide Greek public health. That is why we look forward to the support of the rest of the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u161	I was going to say good afternoon, but it would be a little repetitive. As Mr. Balsairo says, today I won the salary. It's just that we're not so many this time, so we have to repeat, you understand me, we have to distribute. I know I'm a little bored to repeat, but I'll try. The truth and it's a motion that allows -- as Mrs Carreira says -- to continue the debate. It's true that today there's an apparent saturation of debate on health, but it allows us to have a longer debate too, allows us to go a little deeper because we've gone deeper. Maybe we got it in this and it's interesting. We refuse to stop repeating it, every time we talk about vaccination, and this motion speaks a lot about vaccination, about its successful process. As we always say, and being able to spray more in this case, it's a successful process because, despite the apparent speed in the vaccine, which often can be interpreted by many people, it wasn't so much. It took many months, but when there is a dedication of resources, as there were private and public, a very good personal dedication to work alone and with a baggage of knowledge, prior research on work in vaccines and virology, when resources are put, things come out. And the truth is that it took time, but it has all the assurance and all the security, because, in fact, biosanitary work sometimes is judged by people who don't live directly in the field, and it seems that anyone can discuss now that the vaccine has come out very soon. If you don't know how long it takes to get a vaccine, how can you discuss it? People who know, that fully understand that the amount of resources and effort that has been made guarantee this. And that's a success for putting those resources on science, too. Let's see if the pandemic teaches us all a little bit, that maybe you should always put it on, not just do fire science when it's necessary. There's some further progress. Collaboration between administrations we believe that it is a collective success at European level too. Also at the state level, with collaboration between the Ministry and the autonomous communities, despite the attempts of the story and the tensions that are generated. But over time we will know, and more and more evidence remains, that it is a purely partyist reading intention, and in no case has a real foundation. It's working well, with evases and improvements, it's working well. There are some errors, I'm sure they do not fill the whole process. In Galicia there are some errors and they don't mess up the whole process either. The process is good, professionals are doing a great job. Some of them have been mentioned here, not to mention them, but to stop being wrong. We mentioned it in the morning. Similarly, paradoxically -- this is a country that is also peculiar to some things, this Galicia where we live -- the greatest work for awareness of the kindness of the vaccine was done by the mayor of Boimorto and the chief of DomusVi, in order to try to collate. And the truth is, since evil is done, at least -- I don't say thank you -- let's celebrate the good part. [[Applause]] We must try to find the good part of it, that we are not in time to waste anything good. At least they've contributed to that. Maybe I don't think they'll be interested much more or less, but if they're interested, welcome! We've also been asking for a report for a long time about the state of nations, about the profiles, not the specific data, because it doesn't make sense. And that's also what asks for the first point of this motion. So you clearly have our support for this first point. And in the second, because it transfers the need for more personnel. And I'm going to try to build a little more debate on this. Today we know what the standard calculation is. We knew it, but at least today we repeated it. Nine thousand vaccinations a day can do Sergas with staff who are dedicated exclusively. To increase that volume a day, we all want -- the advisor said it before, and I'm sure at some point, sooner than later; I wish you the sooner, the better -- we need more professionals. What do we defend? We defend to have hired personally, because probably with that vaccination, we can take primary professionals to do it, but those holes in primary have to cover them someone, which is the procedure that has been made for the 200 professionals right now. Those who are vaccinating aren't the ones who have entered news, but they're primary professionals with knowledge, with a very contrasted experience, and they're doing vaccination processes, and their 200 hollows are covered by potential professionals during this time. What we're saying is that now we have to increase that volume by 200 people. If we want to wait for the last moment to save a few days, this wouldn't be our strategy. That's why when he says, "Do you want to have them hired already?" Well, it's not too much, either! There's plenty of work in the primary, and it would help to unburden other professionals. If you have to wait for the last day to save some paper, wait. But when we have to put the vaccines, we have professionals so that we don't leave any of those 2,000 primary nurses unmet, and we have over 200 to vaccinate. And if we have 2,200 now, 2,000 on the one hand and 200 on the other, which you can't multiply -- I already doubt about the pans and fish -- but what doesn't multiply is the nurses. So if we want to have more than two thousand on one side and more than two hundred on the other, we have to have more. So do it when you see it, but when you start vaccination, which will come, and probably sooner than later, we have more professionals. At that second point we also agree, of course, and we also agree on the structural increase of primary professionals, as the motion demands. As for tracking professionals, we'd like to increase them, and more importantly, we're something more humble: we'd like to know how many there are. What happens is that you already know: first, you have to define what is a tracker, which is unclear, and then you have to know if there are seven hundred or six thousand. Actually, since Mr. Feijóo invented trackers, he can likewise invent nurses to vaccinate. Then we can solve the problem. But, in any case, we'd like to know how many there are, and probably if they're insufficient, if they are -- we consider that surely if --, increase them. From then on, what do we defend, besides, what do we think is important about this motion? We believe it is a legitimate ground in discussion, but a complex land when it comes to the priorities of vaccination in a sectoral way. Explain. It's not -- as we said before -- that everyone has a priority, because if everyone has a priority, nobody has a priority. It's a complicated decision, because prioritizing one group involves not prioritising another, and that's a complicated decision. We believe that we need to be understanding with people who have to decide, with their ability to see the system, to understand it, to see the volumes, to see the operation. So even if we can have it -- if we have it, it's not even relevant if we have it -- some different position on some groups, we can move it to another level of debate, but we believe from our group that in public we don't have to feed collective clashes. And that's not what this motion proposes, at all, but we also want to put forward possible debates that are tempting, and we want it to be clear. It's also true that the same thing happens to the lads. We have not registered in this parliament any direct requests from any scribe. If some municipalities do, we believe that in the legitimate local debate of the municipalities, but we also respect Sergas' criteria. If we disagree with some organization of some, that were very chaotic, and some aren't completely understood, or one doesn't understand their own organization. But, in any case, the general concept of the crows is positive. So we're in favour of the motion. It goes to the things that we've also seen demanding and that we think they're necessary: greater clarity in the vaccination process, more personal so that we don't take the bull with vaccination when we have a greater capacity; greater capacity that we're going to have, which we'll also have, with clear and accurate instruction from the vaccines, and which will also do what the vaccination process has to do, which is to cover all people who have to be vaccinated, which will do without discriminating territories. [[Laughter]] To assume that the territories are discriminated against is to raise a question about this process that swirls the absurdity. I mean, in the vaccination process we have a problem, and we're thinking only in Spain. Imagine that we put compulsory vaccination in Galicia, imagine that absurd thing. So, are we going to stay locked up between us so that no one from the rest of Spain can come who may not be vaccinated? If we think about Spain, the same thing happens. There will be no solution to this problem until we understand that this is a global world and therefore we have to contribute to vaccinating our southern neighbours, the Asian countries that have the most difficulties... there are many countries in Latin America that have the greatest difficulty in accessing it. [[Applause]] We have to work together, this is such a globalized world that thinking only in one country makes no sense. Imagine trying to vaccinate only in one territory, after we have to be locked up inside a wall like Trump, which would make no sense. Ultimately, it's so complex that we understand governments -- as we always say -- and we're understanding decisions. And as we welcome that it is a collaborative success, we point to the idea of adding or trying to bring up some questions, to disagree in some parliamentary debates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u163	...but understand and try not to interfere with pure management issues. Because, yes, if things go well, don't hide that some go wrong. And don't let us fall into the self-indulgence. But, in any case, that self-favor and things that are going wrong don't make us stop thinking that, in general, science has been a great advance and the process is reasonably good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Rodríguez-Vispo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. I was right, Mr. Torrado, that we continue with the subject of health, which is an important subject from now on, and a subject that we have already discussed many times, both in this Chamber and in the Committee on Health, which is the subject of vaccination. On this subject, each parliamentary group has its own views, as is logical, and so on; it is the essence of democracy. But one thing is opinions and another is facts. I mean the undeniable fact that Galicia was a community that was ready to start vaccination on December 27. And she was prepared because she had already drawn up a vaccination plan, which collected not only the characteristics of the vaccine, first that of Pfizer, then that of Moderna, but also logistics, organization, registration, training and application. And what you didn't know, and sometimes you still don't know, is how many vaccines you're going to get and what you're going to fall into. And this plan, Madam, is indeed being reported. Don't forget that in the first Health Committee of this new session, the Director General of Public Health came up at his own request and widely informed the Vaccination Plan that was being carried out, what was being done at that time, but what is more: he undertook to come as many times as needed to inform this plan. By the way, highlighting the good position that Galicia has achieved regarding the administration of the vaccine against the coronovirus. A good job that corresponds to the planning that is done and the good management of the German Government that is represented here by you, Mr. Counsellor. Very good work! The president also appeared, and has responded to various initiatives in this parliament on this matter; and a few minutes ago the health adviser came up with his own request to take account of the situation of the pandemic and the vaccination campaign. The Galician board already has a plan for the whole population, which is available on the Sergas website, although the opposition gentlemen are committed to saying that there is no vaccination. This week's second update was published, second update of a plan that does exist, because if it does not exist, it cannot be updated, I think. The advisor has already announced on several occasions -- and now he has just repeated it -- that in Galicia the decision was made to count on a specific vaccination group, dedicated exclusively to this task, and that would then allow the formation of the rest of the nursing staff in primary care. Two hundred nursing professionals -- and here we all agree, I think -- who are doing an excellent job, who have experience in vaccination and, most importantly, offered themselves voluntarily. And then it will be the people who can train the rest of the primary care staff -- which, by the way, is already being trained from the Council, because they already have training courses for vaccination --. And these nurses were replaced in their work centers so you could continue your activity -- this was done with the first group --. For the following groups, if necessary, 2,000 primary care nurses will be counted. Besides, let's not forget about preventive medicine and work risk prevention teams, which also have a lot of experience in this field. I'm not going to repeat the calculations here, because I think they're talking enough, but what's clear is that there's no problem. And if you had come all that amount of vaccines you say, I wish!, I think that amount of health personnel would be willing to vaccinate, including weekends, because it's about the health of all of us. What we can't and must forget is that it's a dynamic plan that's subject to variations. And last week, without going any further, within the Interterritorial Council, he agreed to identify the next target groups, which are groups in descending age strata, and began with the 80-year-old vaccination, which was the first group. Galicia is often following the National Vaccination Strategy. Of all of us it is known how this process is being carried out of the 80-year-olds who are being called to health centers to be vaccinated. A population of 224,000 people, who will be immunized -- if we get the vaccines -- in the first week of May. A rhythm that plans to quote 30,000 people every seven days. So, Mrs. Carreira, the plan of vaccination in Galicia exists and works. The different thing is that when you do a pilot test, as happened with the education vaccination, that's what a pilot test is to be able to start the system out of the way. What if we agree with you is at the rate of vaccination, which surely you and we want it to go faster. It's quite true the phrase that "what hopes, despairs," and more speaking of health. And what's happening with the rate of vaccination is that delays in supply -- first by Pfizer pharmaceuticals and then by Astra-Zeneca -- complicate the plans of all European countries. The European Commission's goal of vaccinating 70% of the population before summer -- a goal that is shared by the Spanish Health, and of course by the Health here in Galicia -- will be achieved if the doses we need come. The rate of vaccination, as you know, depends on the availability of vaccines, the number of vaccines received and of which they are. And there are multiple factors, and one of them too -- which is important and we must not forget -- is that of institutional collaboration, because health must be above all. In the vaccination that is being carried out these days and which began with the staff of the home help services, they were asked to the municipalities, through the Fegamp, to transmit information to the staff of their home care services so that they could develop the lists and vaccinate them in this way. And just as an example -- it's anecdotic -- you know, and coming precisely from my province, that the information sent by the municipalities had to ask again. You had to ask for information again so you could speed up the rate of vaccination to three municipalities in my province in Ourense, which had not yet sent the information. I'm sorry, four municipalities: three councils governed by the Socialist Party and a council governed by the BNG. If they want, I'll give them the names. Maybe it's a coincidence; I don't say it's a coincidence. But I think this should make us all think, because on this subject -- I repeat again -- it's about our health, and you shouldn't play with it. What has to be clear -- and I don't get tired of repeating it every time I talk about this topic -- is that it's not vaccinated for lack of staff, but for lack of doses, and that's not what the Popular Group says. According to data published by the Ministry of Health -- not data from the Galician Union -- Spain has 1.14 million immunized people. In the same information, he said, "In the last twenty-four hours, the number of new immunizations at the national level was 25,376 people." Mrs. Carreira, only 25,376 people across Spain in twenty-four hours? I don't think this is a personal problem. The president of the Galician Nursing Association -- he said the other day -- has no doubt about the system's capacity. What's clear is that until the vaccines reach a steady and appropriate rate you can't move forward at the desired pace by everyone. "Galice receives 5% of the doses, although it has 8.2% of the more than 80". News these days in the press. And this seems like you won't like it, Mr. Torrado, but it's the truth. Today's news surprises us, I welcome the gentlemen of the BNG, because the BNG reveals itself against the vaccine deficit for over 80 years. I don't know if you agree with your spokesperson, but the fact is that we insist again that the problem is the number of vaccines that come to us, not the number of professionals. And by the way, about the reinforcement of the use of mass evidence and detention of new positives, do you know that Galicia is the Autonomous Community that most diagnostic tests carry out, having a rate in the last week of four million quintuples per 100,000 inhabitants, almost twice as much as the national average, and that Galicia along with Castile-Leon...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u167	...it's from the European regions that most tests have carried out. I do not say or say the People's Group, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. You can always do more, of course, but we believe that this data has to be recognized and celebrated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u168	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u169	...by everyone. And I'm done. So since the People's Group, we are very pleased with the effort being made since the Health Council. And I don't want to forget the enormous effort of my colleagues who have been working in public health since the beginning of the pandemic. And what we do wish is that we get more doses so we can vaccinate all the Galicians and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The author group of the motion has the floor to Mrs. Carreira Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist Group for the support of the motion. It wasn't clear to me that since the People's Group it was a support, it was a rejection... I couldn't explain the intention. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, I know very well the existence of this Greek vaccination plan. I don't doubt his existence, I would miss him any more! when I consulted him just a few minutes before this debate began. Of course there is, what is required is that it deepen more deeply in order to respond to the following phases of vaccination that are envisaged in the plan itself. The appearance of the Director General of Public Health -- we said it then in Commission 5 and we say it again now -- it was to explain the plan afterwards, when it was already being applied. What we're asking is to anticipate the development of the following phases, because these phases have to be planned, or we interpret that they have to be planned. What wouldn't be conceivable is that everything had been the leap of slaughter, running and improvised. If they come to explain the plan when it's already being applied, what we're here is to present a good news and take the picture of rigor, but not to realize what the job is. On the other hand, with regard to health personnel. I -- let me -- I think it has to be clear that Sergas has a serious problem at work. There are professionals who finish their contract today and they don't know if they're going to work tomorrow. There are professionals who are called at seven in the morning to work at nine o'clock. There are professionals who are at their place of work, who are in the middle of their working days, for example, in a CAP, in a health centre, and who call them to cover an absence in another CAP, in another health center, which is not an accident. This isn't anecdotal. These collectives, like the Possible Nurses in Fighta, realize that I am the bread of every day of a collective as badly treated as that of the nursing. A collective who now, with the vaccination plan on the table, is seeing that it's fundamental. In this motion, we collect aspects that we see as key to the good evolution of the vaccination plan, but also to the rest of the health system. In the reinforcement of primary care it is key that the fundamental axis of the health system is well equipped, it is working properly, with sufficient professionals, with adequate means to meet all the pathology they have. But the evolution of the plan must also be as transparent as possible. You have to introduce yourself in advance, get to know each other, it can't be that the appearances are always behind you. And as any plan, once it's applied, we have to evaluate if it works, if it doesn't work, what are the errors, what are the correct facts... and that's what we're asking for, that an updated report of the first steps of the vaccination plan is prepared, where the administered doses are collected, how many were distributed, how many were received... what we asked for is to have more information so that we can properly evaluate the measures taken. No more, I repeat my thanks to the Socialist Group, and I hope it's also the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u173	We move on to the next motion, in which there is an amendment to the agenda, we are now debating 5.3 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to manage the health crisis caused by the pandemic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u174	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u175	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u176	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups and the Presidency for changing this agenda, at the request of our group, and by facilitating the debate, the entire continuity of health that we are today. The ones we're talking about all day here, we're delighted, the rest of us are a bit saturated, but in the end... I tell them it's a pleasure to be able to debate like this, in a long time. Taking advantage of continuity, I'll be allowed to mention two things. First of all, about this mentioned before the request for SAF data to the municipalities. I don't want to get into personal calls from other administrations, even sometimes to admit there was some mistake in telling or accusing some municipalities. I don't want to do it, but it's much better than, before I come here to say some things, we make sure that what we're going to say wasn't recognized... And then that eight percent, 8.2 percent, which they proposed. What's true is that BNG thought about it, too, and I think it's very important to make a mention of it. The claim is that since the population over 80 years in Galicia is 8.2%, we need 8.2% of the state's vaccines. This doesn't approve any first math exam, because it's two distinct population groups. Cannot compare percentages over two different population groups. Why do you imagine in one case that Galicia is 50% of its population over 80 years of age, do you have to take 50% of its vaccines across Spain? No, no, no, no. Or are we going to do it differently: if Galicia has its 8% population over 80 years old, and all the autonomous communities had it, 8% over 80 years old, how much would it have to share? 136 %, which doesn't make sense either. If Galicia has 8.2% -- 8.6% according to the INE last year -- of its population over 80 years old, what has to take is 8.2% of the total vaccines that Galicia is going to take, which is what's going to happen. We cannot ask for 8.2% of Spain's vaccines because we have 8.2% of the population, because they are two distinct population groups. [[Applause]] Because we don't have 8.2% of the population over 80 years of age from all over Spain. That 8.2% is the percentage of population over 80 years old that we have in Galicia with respect to our population. If those are simple maths. I recognize them as surprised me, but they have focused on this and it seems important to mention it. Since we're entering into a trap of denaturalizing, of instilling certain lies about the process, listen, we've discussed everything! but in mathematics not yet; you can still, but you can't. We'll have to take the proportion to the population group with respect to the total population of our population. Imagine, if not, an autonomous community in which the whole population was over 80 years old, what had to take, all the Spanish vaccines? And they'd have ten vaccines per person, so you have to put them all. I'd turn over the boss of Domus Vi to get one. Of course, it doesn't make sense! [[Applause]] It's an absurd mathematical synthesis, but in the end... put message: Sánchez is very bad, even if he's saving mathematics. It's okay. Let's see if we can build something more about each other. Disassembly of this, we put forward a motion that has to do with this situation, and it has to do with the fact that while we don't have vaccination, what we have to consider is how we face a critical situation; critical in which we are already less critical than we are. It doesn't mean that the situation isn't tough, it hurts. But it was seen -- and so we received it from the professionals who are inside, and so we observed in the media in conversations with people they know directly, because they're up-to-date, and because of the ability that we have to get the information -- and we think our system's saturation was very high. In fact, one of the elements that is used for decision-making on restriction criteria is also in the stress of the system, and it's logical, it has the whole logic of the world. What we've been thinking is that we've been at a point on such a level of care stress that there have been decisions given practically to the will and goodness of professionals, who will always respond, because this health is saving the professionals years ago despite the managers. But despite that, what we must not fail to recognize is that we can have a deficit. What deficit? From our point of view, the underutilization of resources. For example: There are unused or underused empty spaces in hospitals. If we have more staff capacity -- obviously it's investment in money, substitly, and more budgeting needed -- what we need is to increase our capacity structurally, because we're going to drain the system. In times of difficulty, from the stress of care as we live, we'll have more assistance capacity because we'll be able to differentiate. For example, we could avoid the difficulty we had during 2020 to have -- we used to talk about this -- greater oncological diagnoses. We don't say so, but professional Greeks who speak of that ten percent, even some speak of twenty percent. We don't have the exact data, Junta now recognizes -- in November he didn't recognize anything -- a ten, and it looks like it's not a ten, it's a seven, and professionals talk between ten and twenty percent. For example, if we had more spaces, we could differentiate much better from the covered and non-cavid circuits. If we had more spaces, we could drown our attention and we could also have more professional to develop the activity of non-covid pathologies; for example, some who had a lot less attention because, because of the circumstances that they are, they have fewer visits to professionals during 2020. I'm thinking about mental health, which has had great difficulty keeping even some therapies that need presence care. If we have more spaces, which exist -- I'm thinking about Novoa Santos in Ferrol, in some rooms that have some hospitals without use, I'm thinking about reconverting health spaces that are in hospitals that are not used because we don't have staff -- these spaces that are usually said to be available if necessary, we use them. If they are available if necessary, as they were available and not used at the time of the peak of more therapeutic stress of the pandemic. And, therefore, we believe that we have a structural situation that allows us to expand this. In addition, it allows us to work on more hours to expand the hours of care in hospitals that allow us, in addition, to be able to unburden the system and not accumulate so many professionals and so many patients. In short, we'll have a bigger system because spaces exist, they're built. The obsession of building without personal building led to the fact that we have built spaces that are not used. They're from Vilagarcia, I lived when there was, for a long time, surgery in emergencies built with packed material because there were no surgeons to operate. And I'm not talking about a day or two, I'm talking about weeks and months. So we're going to have the greatest ability to equip the system with what it needs. So let's consider this motion. It's true that you're also providing information. We are bold, we are bold: we ask for information. And please don't tell us to look for her in some digital paper. And we asked for information, we asked how they were now that happened, partly, and what was the real level of care stress. Because the official data being transmitted and the actual data given by some professionals did not match. And we argued that it was a problem to show, if so, that the system was better than it was, because one of the tools to transmit or contribute to citizen awareness about the difficulty we're living as a society is to pass on to people that hospitals are saturated, to the limit. And when they were so bad -- and it's not that they're right now, but they may not be as critical as they were a few weeks ago -- it was a very useful way, although sad, but reality is sad, to transmit that we need everyone's collaboration. Because getting out of the pandemic is also an exercise of solidarity and, therefore, we need to transmit that ability that we must have among us all. Often people, citizenship costs, for other reasons, much to defend that level of solidarity and individual responsibility. So it's also a way of convincing. To convince, not to force, that it is always much better tool. That's why we think knowing the information is useful. Let's also raise some questions that we find interesting to begin with. You can probably argue that some progress has been made. Some progress has been made in this government; to our understanding, timid. Structurally we must have the ability to manufacture prevention material in terms of public health, especially in Galicia. This is a mistake that has been made and not only corresponds to this government; all governments, all self-governments, the state government and the practice of all European countries -- not all, but all practice -- have made the mistake of locating even this. And then they came up with the problems that they should be searched for where they were relocated. Which shows that this of relocation is not a good solution either, because when you need it you don't have it, you have to depend on others. Therefore, we believe that Galicia may be in that planning. This is what we put forward through the motion: information, resource reinforcement and bet on the construction or development of our own material that can allow us to face in better situations a small increase, which no one wants, but which can exist. And therefore be ready for it. In that sense, we put the motion, and we wish to have the support or, to be illusory, at least a constructive debate on the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u177	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u178	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Torado, I am now against the passionate debate. Besides, it's always nice to be able to talk about these issues. Just, before we start, move a little bit of affection for our companions who should be here today. Montse -- as the counselor has done well -- also Carmel and Alexandra, and wish them a quick recovery. [[Applause]] They were moving me the other day, in a meeting with health professionals, emergency doctors, some of them, an idea where they came to say that maybe, or not in recent times, a society had been so alert to health data, the health situation we had on the table. And they, who valued this as something certainly positive, also emphasized that it was important that the coldness of the numbers, the coldness of the data, not hide the human drama and the intensive effort of the health personnel throughout this pandemic. Today, I understand that the data has already moved here, but we have 7,748 active cases, 146 people hospitalized in Intensive Care and, sadly, we have to regret already 2,187 people who lost their lives because of the coward-19. Data referring to the drama of thousands of families who have lost their loved ones, but data also below which reflects the effort of health professionals who have been in the first line against the pandemic for almost a year. But data that also today, by the progression itself that has been derived, can transmit and harbor a certain hope, which is where we all try to be, with which we all try to contribute. But data -- and so on -- also transferred these professionals themselves -- that in some way would also mean the fatigue and exhaustion of health professionals; the fatigue and exhaustion of a whole society as well. Can I marry you in this situation? Yes, obviously, but I'm also tired of certain speeches, certain reports of "and you more" and of self-comprehensiveness. He claims that he has already moved in dozens of trade unions, professional associations, and complaints which, in some ways, have also been heard in the Committee on Economic and Social Reactivation of this Parliament itself. Tired, ultimately -- and so they moved it -- that somehow the data were implemented, not so much to try to address such a dramatic reality -- that logically we understand that also -- but, too many times, to build a partisan account that they had for themselves, and that on many occasions it had little to do with the reality that they themselves perceived. And so they were saying to us when they were making references -- one of them was also a nurse -- that these stories on few occasions or at no time contribute to solving the reality that a nurse has just received, which has been in double shifts for months without knowing what it's like to have a weekend off and which is at the front line of the barrier against the coward. On the contrary, it said it was also very important to focus on data that if it helped solve many of the problems we have in our health. Data, for example, like the nursing ratio that we have in our country and that, according to themselves, they are public data. There are 5.3 nurses per 1,000 inhabitants, facing the average state, which has 6.5 nurses per 1,000 inhabitants, and at an already sidereal distance from data from the European Union: 8.8 nurses per 1,000 inhabitants. This is the data they insisted that, in some way, we had to face the pandemic; that's the data they demand. Less account and more reinforcement of public health. And so the transfer also exhausted intensive doctors from seeing what the president of the board himself was like, who, in the face of a dramatic situation, came to say that ICUs -- and ICUs were the terminology that was expressed in this case -- were with 25 percent occupation. But the reality that they reflected intensivists who were working in those ICUs themselves was literally -- I read textually -- "The ICUs are saturated; if you're on guard, there are no free beds left, and you know another patient comes in with a coward, or we're in or die." This is the reality that they were literally reflecting health professionals. These are questions that move and are in the press itself. And of course these issues are not free from an exercise of obvious difficulty that any government would have before it. And in the face of these difficulties, of course they would have the support of all groups, trying to add. But I think the construction of the account -- let's say -- in terms of autobomb or in terms of certain triumphalism -- with all the cautions -- I don't think it responds to this perspective that they are demanding from health professionals themselves. They also denounced how, suddenly, in the face of this situation, terminology, as was the "available rooms", became "possible rooms." Just to change the story and move a situation that they didn't perceive themselves. And the question is, in what way does this change in terminology contribute to the improvement of the situation? And they moved it because they said they were in one step -- I don't know if after they had to apply, but it's because some other doctors were moving that yes -- that some patients entering had to be catalogued in their files as killers or not, that is, depending on whether the epidemiological situation was progressing, those patients might be able to be transferred to the ICU or not. This is the situation they are putting on, which they are denouncing on the table, and of course we believe that, in the face of an obvious difficult circumstance, the constitution of an account that contributes to generating this kind of trust is fundamental. How fundamental is support and work in primary care -- and there goes a good part of our amendment --. Let's just say that, of course, we accept all the points, and the amendment that we simply implement is to make a reference to that fundamental pillar that has to do with primary care, but that we looked at issues that happen in municipalities. It's the case of Soutomajor -- because the other day we talked about it in this debate, but we think it's extrapolable to any other municipality in the country -- that when we were told that waiting lists at this same full-time were two-three days, what moved me neighbors that same day by emails were their appointments, which were extended up to two weeks for a phone call. And, of course, what we have of course is that, in view of the official statements of Galician Union itself, this little data dance contributes to the transfer of security and solvency that, in a context like this, we need. And we said this because on the same day it was the president of the Board who spoke of 30% of the occupation of the ICU; it was on the same day that Sergas spoke of 68%; it was on the same day that health professionals spoke of 93%. We logically believe that when transferring this information, it was also necessary to contribute to clarifying and transferring all of this data transparently and solvently. And in the same way that was spoken -- official statements so, so that -- that the assistance was performed by qualified health professionals trained in the management of critical patients, while on that same day it was also the intensivists who said they weren't intensive professionals, and the parameters that we used in the ICU and the rest of the doctors are different, we don't even use the same language, with the problems that this might have. So, as I see that I'm running out of time, of course if we have something clear in a context like what we are, no one is free to make mistakes. Of course not, we all commit them. And if something is clear, the construction of the account, which can be politically understandable, at no time can it be asked to address some needs that have been evidenced confused at so many times, precisely because this account prevailed. So, from the BNG just what we want to move is that it's time to add up to public health, add up to equip our hospitals with the personnel and resources and, of course, add up and listen to meet so many demands that we have ahead of us to be able to face a challenge like what we're dealing with, and so that our country can, of course, get out as quickly as possible before a situation, which is what we all hope for. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u179	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u180	Good afternoon again. Thank you very much, President. Well, I'm going to try to follow the motion script, because if you talked about so many things... but I'm going to start by talking about transparency, which you talked about transparency here, and that's how Mr. Torrido started his motion. Here we continue with the fear that since Galicia the occupation of intensive care beds will be made up. You ask yourself again, in your motion, what are those beds, and fifteen days ago, at the counsellor's presence, you also intended to sow doubts and confuse the population; and I say that you intended, that I don't mean that it had been achieved. And, of course, without accuracy, eh, but you can't twist reality, you can't be confused in this sense. The reality is marked by the transparency of the Galician Union in offering all the data along this pandemic. I will begin by defining what is a bed of critics, because, of course, you cannot come to Parliament, full after full, causing confusion. You should always know -- and at this most delicate moment, more -- than in hospitals, depending on the needs, the characteristics of the pathologies and the patients who need intensive care, there may be several intensive care units, which can be in that ICU itself, in the coronary units, in the resuscitation units, in the general postoperatives, in the cardiac postoperatives, in the transplants, or even in the surgeries. Each and every one of these units have beds with technology, they're perfectly equipped for the management of these serious patients. The Greek socialists do not like us to use this criterion to define the intensive care beds, but you have to ask your ministry to change the criteria; you will have to ask the Government of Spain to change that, because in Galicia the UCI beds are counted as indicated from the Ministry of Health. On the platform where the data are hung -- from Galicia and from other communities -- you can read that: "The resolution specifies that for the purpose of fulfillment in this specific pandemic context, beds of critical units are considered to be those of ICU, those of resuscitation, those of post-surgical recovery, surgical and similar." But you didn't want to read this. I don't deny that in this third wave moments of much difficulty have been spent and always putting in value those health professionals who worked until exhaustion; it's true. But it's also true that the doctors are for that, we know that and we take it to the DNA. When we have to give it, we give everything, any health professionals. And I value everything that has been done, an invaluable effort. But, look, what matters is, when a patient has the need for that intensive watch, he has a bed in a hospital, equipped with a respirator, and with the appropriate technology and monitoring. And what you can't say here is that if you need a breather, you don't... In Galicia, fortunately -- and that's important -- no one who needed an ICU bed stayed out. So you can't be alarmed, you have to calm down, speak to the truth and make it very clear that here, fortunately, by the proper management of a government like the Greek, who knew how to anticipate, and by that tremendous effort of all the professionals, no patient died because of a bed of intensive care. You, Mr. Torrado, also spoke of this implementation of an extraordinary professional recruitment plan. Well, look, in the first year the Galician Union sent to the Reactivation Commission of this Parliament a report on all the extraordinary staff contracts that Sergas made in this health crisis: the closing of November was 2,100; and here we have to add these 200 nurses who covered the holes of Primary... who covered those hollows with professionals who became part of the vaccination teams. Moreover, even today we have heard the Counsellor put in place the plan for the recovery of activity, which is intended to recover and advance the activity that had to be paralysed in this pandemic. You were also talking, at one point, about making the most of the underutilized spaces in public hospitals. Well, this is a procedure that has been constantly being done in the Galician Health Service for some time now. An example we have here, in Santiago, with the expansion of the emergency area; and also another example that was especially put during this third wave was the so-called "single hospital", a formula that allowed us to have intensive care patients transferred to other hospitals with lower pressure in these critical units and, of course, equipping hospitals with material and human resources; materials, making purchases from the beginning of the pandemic, which allowed Galicia to have breathing and protective material without delay and at much more competitive prices than they had since the Ministry of Health. We have great professionals with a lot of experience who have allowed Galicia to always be ahead of those material needs; and Galicia has also been able to move ahead during vaccination, because if we had heeded the Ministry's instructions on the syringes to be used for vaccination, we would have to be on cross arms right now. Because Galicia was a foreman and acquired the most suitable gyringes, which allowed us, for example, to obtain that sixth dose of the Pfizer vaccine. He also asks in his motion to acquire or manufacture by his own means the materials required to expand the volume of ICU beds. Look, the Greek Government -- and Sergas's -- doesn't improvise, has a contingency plan where you need the spaces that are dealing with coronavirus patients, according to hospital pressure. The Government of Galicia does not improvise, it manages!, which is different. I refer to what we hear today as counsellor, who made a purchase of various materials to provide intermediate respiratory care units. And finally, in his motion today, precisely now, he hasn't named him, but he has named him before: the subject of trackers. You have that dread. And, look, from the beginning of the pandemic, the Galician Union has reported that in that tracking process it all participates! Sergas' staff, everything! Tracking is not an occupation; no one is a tracker on his own; neither is it a category of work. Health tracking is a complex, integrated process, in which we participate many of the collectives that we work in Sergas. It participates, see: the staff of the Preventive Medicine Service; the staff of epidemiological surveillance services of the territorial health heads, who follow each grom that is given in a residence, or either in accommodation establishments; the primary care staff, who follow up the contagions they are at home, and also has a key role in detecting new cases in their family and community health facets; the staff of the Contact Monitoring Centre, a staff who has been trained in relation to the virus, who has been equipped with interviews protocols for confirmed cases and for their close contacts, and who is permanently advised and supervised by technicians of the territorial and hospital heads. The Contact Monitoring Centre is an instrument that is providing assistance and assistance to health care personnel in new and specific tasks arising from a pandemic. These are the reasons why the staff board can never give a data, a number, because it varies depending on the needs and the epidemiological evolution itself, as is required. In addition, the collaboration of the Military Emergency Unit, which has also put military personnel at their disposal; staff that always works under the supervision of technicians of the General Directorate of Public Health, who are the reference professionals to guide and train people who then perform the most bureaucratic tasks of surveys, calls, follow-up and control. In conclusion, Mr. Torrado, counting on primary health care personnel, it is appropriate to say that they participate in the tracking of about 6,000 professionals, and whether the question refers to staff who are dedicated exclusively or almost exclusively to tracking, the number of staff of epidemiological surveillance services, preventive and personal medicine at the disposal of the Contact Monitoring Centre, around 700. And, to finish, Mr. Torrado, I tell you, convinced, that every and every one of the decisions made in Galicia were coherent, they were consensual, transparent and appropriate to the situation that needed every moment of the pandemic, with only one goal; and that goal is to curb the expansion of the pandemic and save lives as possible. Here's the data you want to see. But the truth is, our autonomous community, thanks to the good management of the Government of the Union, thanks to some state-of-the-art infrastructures and, of course, to an excellent health personnel delivered and committed, who with their efforts made it possible for Galicia to deal with the pandemic in a better way than other communities and states in our surroundings. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the motion Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u182	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, again. Does it bother you to say "good afternoon" too? We're on a level of tension... Mr. Lourenzo, more than welcome to the debates; if we all saw here to learn a little!, so thanks for the tone, it was no doubt. And, of course, the amendment you propose has the whole sense of the world, is perfectly incorporable. Besides, it's very close; therefore, we have no problem, it's more, we thank her and we gladly incorporate her. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral nodded with his head.]] I'd like to discuss something else about Motion and Things, but, save you, no one else spoke about Motion here. Well, other things have been said: about praise to the Government -- which is very good, it's a reasonable role -- and about how decisions are made, about the things that happened last March and about the Government of Spain, of course. And finally from that, for a little more. Finally, I would also like to use, on behalf of my group, to transmit -- it must not be enough -- that we understand the difficulties of pandemic management. We understand them to the point that, as we have warned on numerous occasions, there are issues that would be an easy-to-use reason for a low and short-term debate, but that they do not correspond to this Parliament, and that we do not do them because we believe it is more appropriate to debate other things; other things than those we consider to be critical or at least asking for information, because we have been discussed today that we have not said. It's also normal! because, when you bring back the written replicas about things before you listen to what the proponent says here, because they usually pass these things. But, finally, about this, today we are considering, among other things, the request for some information. We think it's important. Why do we believe it is important to have specific information on the number of resources available? We believe it's important because often the professionals themselves don't have it either, and it would also contribute to what could be contributions or ideas that can enrich the Government, because there's one thing that is indisputable: that the Government has the obvious legitimacy of ruling. But sometimes it gives the feeling that there's some other question that you haven't understood much, and it may not be that you don't own absolute truth; or it's more, even being owners there may be someone--who knows! - that I have a good idea. Not me, huh?But Mr. Lourenzo gave here a good idea! But, of course!, if the will is to come here to say that everything is evil... "All wrong, what you do all wrong, all wrong! This... we've done it ourselves that we're perfect. Well, it's complicated, because sometimes people get wrong, or even do things with all the good will in the world, and there's some better way to do it. So, the messianic praises deplete the debate a little bit, make it difficult to be able to reach agreements and make it very difficult to move forward about the debates, because if not, it happens what we have warned here before: we are constantly repeating the same debates on a permanent basis. I, when I do an intervention here, I know what part of a replica is going to be: you abuse health care, you speak ill of professionals, you criticise that I don't know that -- nothing we said at that time, but it doesn't matter -- you're constantly not know that, because you're some people I don't know how much... and I know this, it's all serious, it's eighty percent of the time. Then sometimes, fortunately, in another twenty percent there's something interesting. But in the end, we're not contributing to this. Of course, we as a parliamentary group certainly make proposals that the Government does not like; we make proposals that the Government does not share, as is normal, and we make proposals even that may not be appropriate at any time; we believe that we do, and that is why we do, but we may not. But to be constantly having to go out here listen, "You can have opinions, but there's no need to discuss the facts." Of course, there's no need to discuss the facts! But isn't it a reality that this system has experienced enormous care stress and that it wasn't true that we had 30 percent of the resources and not anymore? It was true, and that's what we thought. Isn't it true that we have the ability to have more resources, more beds and more professional than we do not have? It is true, because we have a debate on this. If it has nothing to do with it, it has nothing to do with saying that no one is better or worse, it's about having a perspective on where to invest and where not, and we can have those debates. What happens is that if you come here and assume that everything you do to others is wrong and bring a replica to someone who doesn't know what you're going to say, then it happens that you're replicating something that's not said. And then we didn't build anything, nothing at all. What we think here was information. We think it's useful, we explain why, because we explain that some information will contribute safely to moving the importance of the situation in which we live; we move a demand for more staff, that we do it in the usual way, and we transfer, in addition, the planning of more and better stocking of material. And it was said here: you accuse the Government of not doing this. But if I did at my exhibition, I said things are done, but we think more must be done. They're doing things, and I'm accused of saying no. So it's very hard to argue when the only will in some speeches is to come here to warn that there's a kindness of light full of reason and that all the rest of us don't deserve to be here. It may even be true, but the reality is that we're here. So, some of the proposals we did not ask for approval, at least we asked for at least to be heard and we asked for arguments to be debated, and from there we built. But until now we've done nothing of this, and today we've had a fantastic afternoon to be listening. All we've made clear is that someone wanted to compare us here now with ignorant and intolerant. That's the only thing we've made clear. At the end of this, one who goes home thinking: either that one is very bad, that may be, that I may be quite bad, or that we have such a wonderful world that nothing happens. If soon we'll say that Mr. Feijóo will stop with a sword from Damocles the virus too, and it's not like that. We have to contribute to each other, and see if we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u183	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with local financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u184	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u185	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are going to debate a motion substantial in the appeal made by this parliamentary group to the German Government at the last full-fledged in this parliament. In this motion, we call for greater transparency and for a view of the execution of budget items for local authorities by each council member; we call for greater execution of such items in budgets; we call for an increase in the Local Cooperation Fund, taking into account the budgeted accounts which year after year in Galicia leave to be unimplemented, and we ask for the criteria governing the allocation of the autonomous Community grants to local authorities, with objective criteria agreed with the Fegamp and which guarantee equal access through public summons, as well as to start the study and discussion of a draft law that regulates participation in the financing of the Galician municipalities in the incomes of the Galician Union. This is therefore a point of order, which we are prepared to agree to achieve the unanimity of all Members and Members of this House. That is why we socialists are once again bringing an initiative to this House to open up the necessary debate on local funding, as well as to start this dialogue with Fegamp to deal with the criteria governing the funds transferred to them by the Autonomous Community through grants, aid or agreements. The previous initiatives were vetoed by this chamber's majority group, who, knowing the need, voted against the favourable vote by local governments of the same political colour within the Fegamp, which is prevented over and over again from trading on equal terms with the Greek council and without taxation. Because we are once again at the disposal of all the groups of this House, particularly the majority group of the People's Party, the possibility of this motion being adopted, thus responding to the agreements adopted unanimously by all the political groups within the Fegamp, which we have repeatedly requested from the Council of Galicia through the Local Covenant within the Fegamp in a multitude of documents submitted to the Galician Union and at the various meetings of the Galician Commission for Local Cooperation. Since then, no Member or Member can argue his vote against this motion because it does not contain the consensus of all local governments or because it is not a need repeated by them, regardless of their political colour. A good number of Members and Members of this Chamber have -- and some still have -- political responsibilities in the Greek municipalities. We know perfectly well that in Galicia there are three hundred thirteen municipalities with very different potentials and with different needs as well. We have, on the one hand, the seven great cities, which virtually cover 40 percent of the population, and on the other hand, 200 municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants, in which they live something more than fifteen percent of the total population of Galicia. Urban councils in front of other eminently rural, very different municipalities, both in their communications and in their services, without the Council of Galicia addressing the absolutely necessary territorial rebalancing plan. What these three hundred and thirteen municipalities have in common is that their local governments have insufficient resources to meet their citizenship and exercise the powers that grant them laws, and that do not correspond to the principles of autonomy and financial adequacy of the local entities established in the Spanish Constitution, the European Charter of Local Self-Government or the Law regulating the basis of local regimes. As you all know, the financial resources of the municipalities derive either from their own tax resources or from the resources derived from participation in State taxes or the Autonomous Community, which aim to cover the differences between the expenditure needs and the resources obtained by their own means in order to achieve that financial adequacy in their holdings of what I was talking about earlier. Well, the reality is, for eleven years of the government of Nuñez Feijóo in Galicia, the Local Cooperation Fund didn't increase a single euro. The German Government has adopted rules which have increased the powers of the municipalities without providing them with the resources needed to develop them. The Council of Galicia demands the municipalities to charge with an important part of the cost of the business settlement in our country, with the resignation of a large part of its own tax revenue, of course it is the Council of Galicia which has exclusive competence in economic promotion, which further reduces the capacity of the municipalities to collect. In addition, municipalities are blackmailed by conditioning the obtaining of certain subsidies if they do not become entrepreneurs. The German Government in these 11 years has not yet incurred all the maintenance costs of the health centres, nor the primary care centres in charge of the municipalities. This is something that was approved by the local Covenant and signed with Fegamp in 2006. A Galician board that -- as I said before -- has not dealt with that territorial rebalancing plan. A Greek Government who, during the health crisis of the coward-19, again carries the municipalities with responsibility for taking on an important part of the expenses necessary to prevent the spread of the virus, without bringing enough economic resources to them, when the Greek Government receives funds from the state. The Greek municipalities receive funds from the Autonomous Community through three channels: the Local Cooperation Fund, grants or collaboration agreements. Well, in the Local Cooperation Fund, this fund, in 2006, when Emilio Pérez Touriño reached the presidency of the Autonomous Community -- something you often use on certain occasions -- was €66.5 million, increasing during its government by EUR 24 million, up to EUR 113 million. This figure was exactly the same as in the budgets of the Galician Union for this year 2021. That is, 11 years later, the involvement of local authorities in the autonomous Community funds remains exactly the same as in 2009: one hundred and thirteen million euros. The Greek Government introduces into the budgets, starting in 2016, funds that call them "additional" and sometimes also "additional funds", which are specific aids for certain municipalities and conditioned to certain actions. Thus, since 2016, they provide EUR 11.5 million for the merged councils, councils to which they must be added, in addition, the resources they receive through agreements to virtually all the councils of the Government of Greece, in addition to having a higher starting score in all the calls for grant of the self-government, which are completely discriminatory measures that do not respond to any territorial rebalancing plan, but instead come to wear that star measure announced by President Feijóo in his investment speech in the ninth legislative session, as if the merger of the municipalities were itself to put an end to the problems of the Greek municipality. It must also be said that it was a measure announced with a lot of publicity and propaganda, but with little travel; something that we have been accustomed to this government of the Council of Galicia. Well, also through these additional funds, the Government of Greece has allocated, from 2016 to 2021, almost thirty-five million euros in conditional aid for certain municipalities. These funds are to cover expenses that in practice are entirely within the competence of the Autonomic Administration. We socialists do not disagree with these aids, since if they are given the skills, it seems to us how normal their funds are too. But they don't try to fool anyone, because they're not local cooperation funds, they're not unconditional funds, they're funds for municipalities to assume and manage powers that are of the Galician Union, and they give them insufficiently. [[Applause]] Another way of transferring funds from the Autonomous Community to the Greek municipalities is through agreements and grants, which are also set out in the budgets of the Galician Union. In the last three years, the German Government has failed to execute the order of one hundred and forty million euros of them. One hundred and forty million euros from which a party could have increased the Local Cooperation Fund. Well, look: the counties for agreements and grants for local entities have also declined since the government of Núñez Feijóo in the Galician Union. During the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, EUR 67 million was added to its legislate, to reach EUR 310 million in 2009, and now, in the budgets of 2021, that is, 11 years later, they set aside EUR 29 million less than in 2009 for the Greek municipalities through the way of agreements and grants. And we must bear in mind, moreover, that within these quotas appropriations are made for the provision of services which are within the competence of the Autonomous Community; you said that they are not enough to cover the cost of services and even more waste the already ill-treated municipal buildings, taking over the municipalities in some cases of more than half of the financing with own funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u188	...how can it be -- finished already, Mr. President -- the maintenance of children's schools, the agreed plan, the home help service or active employment policies. Well, as Mr. President is already warning me, and I don't want to look sloppy, I finish this first shift here. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u190	Good evening or night already, I don't know exactly what time we are. In any case, we are in a recurring and repeated debate, which has already come here on several occasions and not therefore less necessary and less important. In fact, the BNG also brought it in in the last session; what happens is that with very little results to the truth. Here we beat in cold iron. I would now like to make a proposal: that the representatives of the Fegamp come to this parliament and see if we can agree; we could take a stand between the representatives of the People's Party's Party's Fegamp and the representatives of the German People's Party to see if they agree, because they defend antithetic things, because in the Fegamp they defend one thing and here they are so calm. However, we also find it important in this debate to raise our eyes a little bit and really think about what are the financial problems that the municipalities have, which are not only those related to funding, the participation in the incomes of the Autonomous Community, and which are deeper and which lead to a situation of genuine asphyxiation and genuine -- we can say -- ill-treatment of the Greek municipalities by the institutions of the upper domain, both in the autonomous case and in the case of the Government of the State. And we think this situation would improve with a new funding system for Galicia, that is, in a way that we have more resources to share, for the provision of services and also to transfer them to the municipalities. And in this respect we have to say that BNG has a proposal in the field of autonomic financing, which is the concert system, which we have explained here many times. We don't know what the other groups are proposing, or if we at least know what the current proposal is, that everyone recognises that it is discriminatory and unfair to Galicia, but nobody, when in government, dares to change it. That's the reality. So we have a financial failure situation that has three main reasons: One is an unfair and discriminatory local funding system. This has often been said to Fegamp, and we also approve initiatives here. But when you get to Madrid it turns out that this situation is maintained, there is no one who changes this system that Fegamp itself has come to appreciate that the Greek municipalities have lost, so we all lost, up to two billion euros since 2004, who have stopped entering the Greek councils, with the consequences that have that in the provision of services. We all agree that other criteria need to be evaluated, not only that of the population, because this system favours large cities indiscriminately, that we must also take into account the dispersion of the population, which is a fundamental factor in explaining the cost of services, and of course also the ageing of the population. That's what everyone agrees on, but it doesn't change. It doesn't change, and that seriously penalizes the Greek municipalities. The second reason is that the municipalities suffer from an equally suffocating legal framework, which is essentially derived from the approval -- not only but mainly -- of Article 135 of the Constitution in 2011, with a clear purpose, because there was agreement -- we said -- between the two centralist groups. This led to a series of legal changes that also seriously damaged the powers, abilities and income of the municipalities. And there are the Budget Stability Act and also the Local Administration's Law of Rationalization and Sustainability, which suffer every day the mayors, the mayors, the city council rulers and also the neighborhood itself. Because these rules created a corset that severely hinders public spending, public investment, the use of surpluses or also the hiring of staff for public services. And then there's, of course, the subject of replacement fees, but it comes from there, to establish by law and by a change in the Constitution that the priority was to pay the debts that local entities had to the financial institutions, not the improvement in the provision of municipal services. And the third reason for this real strangulation that the municipalities suffer has to do with precisely that participation of a fund of the Union, of the transfers to the municipalities, which, in addition to these budgets this year, have been reduced, when it is a clearly expansive budget, with a downturn of 6.4 % of transfers to the municipalities in the budgets of the Union of 2021. Well, it's usually about the Local Cooperation Fund, and the spokesperson for the Socialist Group on this fund, and actually this fund accounts for 33 % of the total transfers that the Board makes to the municipalities. As Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo said very well, they come from the Local Cooperation Fund, which has equal distribution criteria for all. But then there are two other bags, which are the grants, and, above all, the conventions, which have the marked letters and which clearly benefit the Town Councils of the People's Party. And that needs to be changed. And that was agreed on again and again by the Fegamp in accords also with the Galician Union. But there's not your aunt; here she keeps this mark because she favors the People's Party councils, and that's why the Government of the Union has no interest in changing it. And although there were -- I say -- agreements to sign the local Covenant, for the Local Cooperation Committee to approve -- this announced the President of the Union in 2017 -- "impressing an autonomous law to provide local cooperation and to establish those equitable criteria for the distribution of all public funds." This is also in the Fegamp agreements of 2017, which are public and have been approved by all groups. But this stays exactly the same because it's not interested in changing that frame. And now it turns out that in October last year the Committee on Local Cooperation again meets, and on the table are the same issues that have been going around practically for a decade, among other reasons because it was seven years without convening this commission. But if we saw on the agenda of the topics dealt with, in addition to the children of yen, there is the law of local farms, which is still pending; the transfers to the Town Councils, which are still pending; the water pact, which is still pending; the map of emergencies, which remains pending. So it's time for us to sit down, sit down and talk to Fegamp and put a solution to this subject, because it goes a lot to the municipalities in the solution of this question. And finally, I also wanted to make a logical reference to what we live in a pandemic of needs, and the city council's obligations are normally increasing because the Galician Union and also the Government of the State are transferring more competences and responsibilities to them, but not the necessary resources. And on this issue, there is also an agreement by the Fegamp Council on whether it asks both the Government of the United States and the Central Government to transfer extraordinary funds to meet these needs. They're still waiting. That's why the BNG will support this initiative. We share all the points of the motion presented by the Socialist Group and we add two amendments which we believe are complementary and which improve the text. In any case, our vote will be in favour of the Socialist Group's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u191	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u192	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that at this point we have to clarify this issue, but I believe that in this Chamber we should not confuse basic concepts of democracy as'veting' with 'voting'. The majority group does not veto anything in this chamber, the majority group votes according to its own convictions, exactly as its lordships do. What happens is that the Greeks decided that the majority vote, so it's majority, had more weight in the House's decisions. But we don't see anything, Your Honor, we don't. [[Applause]] He asked a fellow of his in an earlier intervention to discuss himself with arguments. I promise you that I will try and therefore leave some foreign things that I have heard, such as that the economic problems of Galicia are solved with a concert, that basically means passing from the current hunger of the municipalities to which they already die directly from starvation, or that we have to end the mergers, which seems to be a problem, which I don't know why this is a problem; you took them to programs, then you took them away, I don't know why. But if we talk about funding, I have to say that we share the concern of the P.S.D.G. regarding the financing of the Greek municipalities. Because I think we will all agree, we will all agree that they have less resources than the average of the Spanish municipalities, and that is a problem. I understand less, and I have to confess, Your Honor, is the PSdeG's theme for diverting attention to the fundamental source of this budgetary anemia that is suffering from our municipalities, which has little to do with the financial contribution made by the Council of Galicia. As you said, this is a recurring issue that we often debate here in this House, in Parliament. And all the House groups agreed to claim better funding from the Greek municipalities. I, as you spoke of unanimity, will read the agreement we reached unanimously from the groups of this chamber: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to demand the reform of the current local financing model in accordance with the following criteria: to provide more resources to the municipalities; to adopt the criteria for the dispersion and ageing of the population for the distribution of participation in state income, the IEP, because they are factors that have a decisive impact on the cost of services provided by the Greek municipalities; and, thirdly, to transfer to the Galician Union the count corresponding to the IEP, so that it may be the Greek Administration to carry out the distribution of these funds among the municipalities." This was the unanimous agreement we had. Why do we change the deal? The only thing that changed is to explain to you what it was: when the People's Party supported this proposal, who was ruling in Madrid was President Rajoy, and now it's President Sánchez. And there are others who when they change president what they want is to get rid of the unanimous agreements we had previously adopted in this chamber. Your Honor, I think it's an obvious thing. As you say, this is a "recurrent debate", as is a recurring debate in several chambers. I was very attentive last week to the debate on this issue in the Congress of Deputies. Some questions were asked on the part of the People's Group, which I think are fundamental to the Greek municipalities. Look: which autonomous communities -- the Galician between them -- and the municipalities don't have to return the negative balance of deliveries to the 2020 and 2021 account. Because you know, ladies and gentlemen, that we're going to have a serious problem and that there's going to be a big hole in the autonomous and municipal public archives. Unfortunately it didn't prosper because they voted against PSOE, Podemos and Vox. We also call for the reform of autonomous and local funding to be resumed, because it was indeed a priority for all. But since the change of government has not come to know anything about this subject, nor has the Conference of Presidents been reconvened. We would also like to apply the same criteria as the European Union in the allocation of European funds to eliminate this discretionaryness that you complain so much about in this Chamber. But it couldn't agree either because they voted against PSOE, Podemos and Vox. And we also ask that the tax autonomy of autonomous communities be respected within the framework of their competences. And they won't believe it, because they voted against this question the PSOE, Podemos and Vox; which begins to look like the new colon trifachito. It's certainly a curious thing! It's less surprising when one hears things like "Sánchez praised the sense of state of Abascal for facilitating the funds of the European Union." [[Applause]] Anyway, not long ago in this chamber we were told that there was nothing to talk about with these gentlemen. If we want to solve the problem of financing the Greek municipalities, I think we must be rigorous in the diagnosis and determine what are the problems we really need to solve. Reality believes something: The first, that the Galician Local Cooperation Fund is the second best equipped of all autonomous peninsula communities, and that participation in the state income of the Greek municipalities is the fourth lowest in all autonomous communities. Fifteen days ago there was an inquiry here, and I think there are certain things in which I will avoid sinking, because the counsellor clarified them. It clarified the falsity of the low execution of the funds. Home!, I don't think we should question the reports of the Board of Auditors, which say that the funds destined for the municipalities are executed at 97.5%. Sounds like a reasonable degree of execution! Descent of transfers to the municipalities this year. He also believed the advisor who is worth more than six and a half million. And the fallacy you repeated today from the Local Cooperation Fund. No, ma'am, the Local Cooperation Fund in 2009 was equipped with 104 million, the base fund. The base base of 2021 is 112 million. But if you want to add the extra funds to it, in 2009 it was 124 million, and today it's 127 million. We have to add that for four years, in which there has been a fall in the collection in the autonomous Community, the Union, even though it had to do so legally, has not diminished its contribution to the Greek municipalities; on the contrary, it has kept it, which means an extra contribution of 21 million euros. So, I think, frankly, the engagement of the Board is quite out of the question. If you have any, I've tried to collect information from some target informant, in this case the Localis Network. I think you will have respect for your members, groups of the GEN of the University of Vigo, Mr. Santiago Lago, Mr. Leicega and Mr. Antonio López, who I think are not suspected of being militant ultra-rightist, right? I read the report you made in March this year: "The relative importance of current self-sustainment transfers is greater in Galicia than for the national average. The previous percentage for Galicia is 29.3 %, compared to 22.3 % at national level. On the contrary, the contribution of the General Government of the State is almost two percentage points lower in Galicia than in respect of the total number of municipalities at the national level. The above allows us to point out how the autonomous contribution to the Galician municipalities is more generous than that made in other territories." I believe that one of the problems is clearly marked there. Another problem, of course, is that lack of input. I do not say this same week in the press, weekend, Faro de Vigo: "Galice lost it in the state funds to fund the municipalities". The average is 281 euros; Galicia perceives in the municipalities 226 euros. The problem is that last year we were the sixth community that received less money, starting with the tail. And this is the fourth year. Why? Because there's a deeply unfair system with the Greek municipalities that every year will cause us greater problems. So I think here are the problems, and what we have to try is solve them. For this we present an amendment. I think it's a reasonable amendment: "Requesting from Galicia's Board the opening of a negotiation process with the Greek municipalism through the Fegamp, which includes the realization of a joint audit to determine the inappropriate competences that each administration is assuming, as well as the respective economic costs." It's not a novelty, ladies and gentlemen: agreement between Together and Fegamp to shield local cooperation by law. We already had this deal. "The President of the Fegamp hopes that the text will define both the powers of municipalities and the funding required for this, although he has recognized that there will be a need for the Central Government to implement the reform of this law at the state level." Of course, what happens is that he changed the president of the Fegamp, he didn't change the party, he was socialist, he's still socialist now, but the attitude seems to have changed. And to me, ladies and gentlemen, I'm worried, because we need to know if we're going to have an ally at the Fegamp to clarify and improve the funding of the Greek municipalities or an arian at the service of party or political interests. I would ask you not to pass this second because it seems to me that it is important for us to work together to clarify our competences and allocate resources to develop these competences. So what I'm asking is serious. What we ask for is also respect for the municipalities. We ask you not to try to stay with the rest of the municipalities as intended, for example, by telling them that in exchange for the 15,000 million that they give them to the state, the state will allow you to access a line of aid of 5 billion. Changing 15,000 million per 5,000 million, of course, was a great deal for the Greek municipalities! Luckily, let's stop it! It wasn't thanks to the Socialist Party's position, neither in Spain nor Galicia. By the way, we would also ask, exactly like you, the Councils to participate in European funds. Because, in fact, funds were transferred from the State to the Community, but it was to meet the Community's expenditure. They were the medical expenses, they were the expenses derived from caring for the pandemic. We have recently asked for the municipalities to participate in these funds as well. Home!, I don't think we're the ones suspected of getting stuck on this subject, because "The PSOE refuses to share European funds to the municipalities because of their lack of intellectual resources." Mrs Rumbo, do you really think that this is what a socialist senator said in a debate in the Senate itself, where European funds were asked to be given to the council to meet the needs arising from the pandemic, that this is the answer the PSOE has for Spanish municipalism?, are they not going to give them funds because they question their intellectual resources? I don't think this is serious. So I repeat again: we want dialogue. And now what you have to say is whether you're willing to do this dialogue or whether you're actually going to keep the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u194	... -- yes, I'm done now, president -- attitude that has remained so far. The Union offered them an agreement, to participate in an agreement with the university to determine the inappropriate competences of each administration. Fegamp rejected him. They were also asked to join the working groups to try to determine this issue, which is the very essence of the problem of local funding. And they still don't designate those people. I'm asking you to talk to your partymates, recap...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u196	...which joins this attempt to recompose the ill-treated arks of the Greek Town Councils and, among all, now yes, with arguments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u197	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u198	...we can help the municipalities go a little...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u199	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u200	...more unburdened in economic terms. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u201	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I insist, Mr Pazos Couñago: by opening up to them the possibility of unanimously approving this motion and transferring a unanimous commitment of support to the Greek councils by the three parliamentary groups that we make up this Greek Parliament. I think it's much easier for them to tell us directly if you agree with the points contained in the motion, yes or no? If they agree, they vote in favour, and if they are not, they will explain it to the Greek municipalities of their own political colour, which they fully agree with these points that we gather here. Anyway, I think you're wrong about the forum. The truth is, you come here and you think you're in Congress. And no, we're in the German Parliament. So here we are to tell the Greek Government the things that we believe should or should not do, and take measures to make them, not in the state. That is another debate, which we can also address at another time, but at first they assume their competences. What we believe is that we really need to change the way the Galician Union has to share public funds, with the dedication of a very important part of these funds to agreements that divide their fingers, without any objective criteria and without being able to be supported by that territorial rebalancing plan that I had commented on earlier. And I'm going to give you two examples. One, I've introduced you last week, and I'm glad you're here, the first vice president and chairman of the presidency, these are the agreements you've distributed your advice from 2017 to 2020. Well, look: this is the graph, I think it's rather eloquent. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo shows the House a brochure with a chart.]] And it tells us that in four years, of six million that were distributed by the First Vice President and the Chair Council, because 5.5 were for councils governed by the People's Party. [[Applause]] I have another example: agreements from the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, 2016 to 2020. For out of the nearly twenty million they distributed, 90 percent also went to municipalities with governments of the People's Party: 19.6 million euros. So, do you think that the Galician Union makes a fair and fair distribution and contributes to Galician territorial rebalancing by distributing these public funds to its finger? So look: the socialists once again rejected the distribution system to the funds of the Galician Union. This is a caciquil system that does not respect local autonomy, which is not based on a territorial rebalancing plan for Galicia, which does not seek the coverage of basic services for the whole of Galician citizenship, regardless of where they live, which does not comply with the principles of transparency and objectivity enshrined in the Law on Transparency and Good Government of Galicia and which does not respect the Law on Galician Grants. I've already told the councillor in my previous appeal and I repeat now: in an expansive budget for 2021, which rises to EUR 1,575 million, the municipalities are one of the major damage. Transfers to local entities decrease to the year 2021 in almost 11.5 million euros, with few shares falling to this year 2021. When you in the 2020 electoral programme of the autonomous elections, in the section on local administration, literally said, "It is committed to reviewing the funding of the municipalities through the Local Cooperation Fund towards a model that overlaps aging, depopulation and fiscal effort, and bet on territorial cohesion." So you have to decide whether to vote in favour of the municipalities, a more equitable, more equal distribution, and objective criteria, or whether you continue to bet on your fingering. I'm talking about the Galician board, which is the forum that suits me. They decide: they can vote in favour and give a unanimous message, or they can vote against and be constantly against and continue to support that caciquil allocation of funds, which are all and all. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u203	About the amendments, do you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u204	The People's Party accepts the amendment as an addition and also accepts the first point of the amendment tabled by the Nationalist Block in Wales. So let's invite them again to vote in favour and get out of here with a unanimous agreement. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u205	Thank you. After the debate on motions has been closed, we shall proceed to the vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u206	We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Iria Carreira Pazos. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Iria Carreira Pazos, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the new wave of covid-19 and the vaccination strategy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u207	We now vote on what has just been discussed, which is the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to local funding. He stated that he accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group -- he accepted the first point --. And the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group said he accepted it as an addition. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Paz, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u208	Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo doesn't accept a point vote, so... [[Murmurs.]] This is the political debate, what do you want me to do? For me to accept it, but don't accept it. He wants me to do it! [[Laughter]] We have to vote. We vote like I said before. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to local funding. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u209	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Torrado, which accepts the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to manage the health crisis caused by the pandemic. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-02-23-DSPG025.u210	The session is suspended until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
