ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. He denies his assistance to this full-time wife Alexandra Fernández Gómez. No more, we are on the agenda, with the first item, of appearances, in this case of the vice-president, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, on his own request, to report on the balance of the tourist season and forecasts for the year 2022 First Vice-President's appearance and chairlor Justice and Tourism, on his own request, to report on the balance of the tourist season and forecasts for the year 2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u2	Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela, Vice-President of the Presidency, Justice and Tourism
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare, as the President of Parliament has just said, on his own request, to report on the balance of the tourist season -- it has not finished yet, but it is true that it has ended at its main station -- and also to talk about the forecasts for the next year 2022. You will remember, ladies and gentlemen, that before summer I also appeared in this chamber and said what was already beginning to be albiscate, fortunately; there were figures for the hope of a sector that had passed it, like many others, but this especially, during the pandemic, frankly bad. Today, after these months that have passed and after the figures we have, we can say, without a doubt, that these good predictions during the summer, especially, and then also, have come true, and even if they exceeded the expectations, they were already good at that time. The numbers say, ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia is in fashion, and it has to be fashionable over the next few months, from a tourist point of view. This is the merit of the administrations, of course, but especially of the professionals in the sector, a very professional sector that exists in Galicia, and also -- you have to say -- of the generalized behavior of the Greeks and the Greeks, which in the most difficult months they have thrown out of this sector in a way that I think is very remarkable and also very supportive. I think that in the end, among all of us, we achieved the challenge that was marked, which was to consolidate Galicia as a secure destination and overcome -- I say -- the expectations we had at the beginning of summer. The data of the first nine months of this year are located in Galicia at the head of the autonomous communities, in the head group of the autonomous communities, in relation to the recovery of tourism demand. Galicia, with 3.2 million passengers and 7.1 million registered overnights, is the third community -- only surpassed by Asturias and Cantabria -- in the recovery of travellers; we are twenty points better than the state average. We're also the second community if we go to the recovery of hotel demand, twenty-five points better than the state average. At the moment, national tourism remains, without any doubt, the great supplier of these figures: 90% of the travellers, of course, first of all the Greeks themselves - as I said at the beginning of the appearance - who greatly increased their demand for domestic tourism consumption in our own autonomous community, and then 21% of the travellers from Madrid, Andalusia almost 10% and Catalonia by 7%. So 90% of national demand, which gives us many hopes that when traffic is recovered and, therefore, international tourism demand, these figures, without any doubt, will increase. As I said, in this process, ladies and gentlemen, of recovery, it was particularly remarkable the rush of summer months, a fourth best data of tourists and nights in the Greek summer of the entire historical series. We recovered this summer 98% of previous tourist demand. The most powerful were August and September, curiously better September even than July, and August, without any doubt, was the month of greatest tourist demand in which we have been in the year, first exceeding the pre-pandamia figures; more tourist demand now than in 2019. And September was also an exceptional month from the tourist point in Galicia; we were the second autonomous community with more hotel nights and the third with more travellers. As I said, a good tourist response, which remained after the summer and continues to be maintained; according to the last show, in this recent past bridge of All Saints, the very good forecasts of occupation were met, despite the announcement and there was, in most Galicia, an unaccompanied climateology. We arrived at an average occupation of 85-90% on this Santos bridge, and very similar to that of the October bridge, with climate and a proximity to summer, in principle much more favourable. We exceed 100% of the tourist demand on Santos bridge in many areas; in the Low Rijes, the Sacred Ribeira, the Death Coast, the Ludense Navy or the Barbera, 100%. Let me finish this summary -- it has to be necessarily accelerated -- of data also celebrating the magnificent evolution that is having the figures on the Santiago Way. Today, even today, the 170,000 Compostes have been over; I always use to remember that we should add 30% the number of Compostes of pilgrims and pilgrims who, for whatever reasons, do not ask the Compostela; therefore, 170,000 more than 30% more would already give more than 200,000 pilgrims this year, which have also occurred -- we have explained it other times -- practically from June and especially July; the first few months there was no mobility, and therefore the number of pilgrims was witness; I remember: 16 in February, only 40 in March. So, the 170,000 Compostes, the 200,000 pilgrims, again, is to believe that we have magnificent ambassadors, that when they come back to their points of origin they speak of Galicia as a safe destination and as a destination -- I insist -- again on fashion in the best sense. They'll remember that a few months ago we marked the calculation, which at that time seemed optimistic, of 140,000 Compostes, when the mobility began to be recovered, and everything makes forecast, if things continue as they were until now, and if you start to recover the international flow of pilgrims, that we might be, when it's over this year, about 200,000 Compostes. The reactivation of the arrival of pilgrims began -- as I said -- from the month of June, especially; we had very good months, we arrived at more than 2,000 Compostes in a few days of July and August, and the Winter Road, the English, the primitive and the French are the most influential, but in general, all roads are being recovered in a very acceptable way. Also, as far as Jacob, the month of October, with the greatest number of Compostelas, the greater number of pilgrims in the month of October than in July, nearly 32,000 Compostelas withdrawn, and therefore many signs for hope, especially seeing that already in October, which is being confirmed in these first days of November, is beginning to recover international pilgrims, they begin to reach mostly more of Portugal than they did these months, but begin to arrive pilgrims from the United States and Italy and even some Asian countries, which are traditional issuers in these months already winter and that until now they are not appearing and they are already beginning to appear, and the forecasts, so tell us the travel agencies, are very good for the year 2022. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all know about the incredible potential and attractive tourist that Galicia has -- already had it -- and what it has to have, but there have been many difficulties, and there have been months, many months, very bad and, therefore, I think that making this acknowledgement express to patience, sacrifice, understanding that it was necessary to preserve greater goods in the tourism sector, at the right disposal, to the adaptation work that had to be done, I think it's worthy of recognizing and explaining to a large extent -- as I said -- the keys to these very good results. Together she always tried to help the tourist sector, to be close to her at very difficult times, in moments of sitting face to face and logically listening to situations and giving news that they were neither nice to give nor we knew they would have a good impact, nor much less, but I think we had to do what we did, give our face, sit down, explain what there was, not hide the situation when it was bad and try to be flexible to recover as the situation improved. We had many meetings -- as you know --, we attended many phases during the pandemic that affected the tourism sector, and even sometimes we could also see how there were administrations of all the political signs that were sensitive, such as the Galician Union, to the situation of the sector and others that put in the discourse of the competitions, it seemed to be their impact and the situation that was producing the pandemic in the tourism sector and therefore always derives responsibilities from other administrations, especially towards the Galician Union, which, of course, exercised them, and I believe that these are the hemerotheques to know who helped and who didn't and, above all, is the tourist sector itself to know where they came from and which administrations are waiting for them, I suppose that they are already without any hope, today. Fortunately, we have found ourselves in a very different situation than these past months, we have left on October 23 of the health emergency situation, entering a situation of normality which is an obvious improvement; we are seeing an increase in savings, relaxation of measures; that doesn't mean, much less, that the pandemic has ended, and therefore we have to be very careful of its consequences and that the situation at no time is going to get worse. So knowing this and working on this premise, I'd like to give you a very summary balance of what we've done during these months and what we want to do these difficult months and what we want to do so that this recovery will continue and if you confirm these magnificent figures that we've already had this summer. Three main areas of action, therefore. The first, the aids, which have been and have to remain a fundamental foundation for the recovery of the sector; it goes when there is no other source of income and they have to be now for the recovery. The second point I wanted to mention is the commitment for sustainable tourism, which is the tourism that comes, the tourism that is already here, and therefore who doesn't understand it and who doesn't act in that sense will be wrong; we, of course, don't want to, we won't make that mistake. And also make a special reference to Jacob, especially thinking about everything we have ahead of us in the year 2022. So, starting with the issue of aid, remember what is already known: we put at the worst moment, when most needed, from the Galician Union in progress two aid plans, 120 million euros injected directly into the tourist sector, totally disbursed into the current accounts of all those who needed it at that time, in several instruments. First, those two rescue plans for self-employed and small businesses, 90 million euros; more than half of the funds for that rescue plan, which had other recipients, went to the tourism sector and to the host sector. And in addition, we have to point out that we have also made a vehicle so that many municipalities, 64 of all political signs -- we have to say -- they thought that the Galician Union was the most agile vehicle to ensure that the aid they also wanted for their host sector had arrived as soon as possible. 2.5 million euros for the municipalities distributed through the board, and already totally in power of the 1,400 hostel sites that were in these 64 municipalities; I say it by contrast with other municipalities that have chosen -- they will know why -- by not accepting this system, and well, in any case, they are still drafting the bases, they are neither summoned nor there are examples of remaining to affirm and demonstrate this statement that I am making. [[Applause]] We put in addition to these two rescue plans, another direct aid shock plan, EUR 37.5 million, which were also compatible with the aid of the two rescue plans and which had a lot of measures in these EUR 37.5 million. First, help for equipment equipment poscvid, 6 million euros; help to promote digitization and digital marketing, which from now on will take a lot of money, much more than before the pandemic, another 6 million euros; subsidies for improving tourist establishments, 3.5 million euros; aids for improving tourist establishments, 3.5 million billion, more than double double that in the year 2020; help for obtaining the tourist quality Q, nearly 300,000 million euros; aid for tourist infrastructures of municipalities of less than 10 thousand inhabitants, another 6 million euros; subsidies for improving tourist establishments; subsidies for improving tourist establishments, 3.5 million billion, more than double double that in the year 2020; aids for obtaining tourism Q quality tourism quality, nearly 300,000 EUR 300,000 million; aid for tourism infrastructures of tourist quality, much more than before the pandemic had before the pandemic; subsidies for tourist infrastructures of municipalities of less than ten thousand inhabitants, EUR 3.5 million euros, 3.5 million euros; assistance for a sector that happened especially bad, because aid for hotels and restaurants and restaurants are still starting their recovery; I am talking about their recovery -- I am talking about how much, I am talking about the travel agencies of travel agencies -- namely, yes, yes yes, yes yes yes, and yes, and yes yes yes yes, and yes, and yes yes, and yes yes yes, and yes, and yes yes yes yes, and yes, and yes, and yes yes yes yes yes, and yes, and yes yes yes yes yes, and five, and yes yes, and five, and yes yes yes yes yes yes yes, and five, and yes yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, and yes yes, and yes, and yes, we have, and yes, we have, and yes, and yes, we have, and yes yes yes, and yes yes yes, and five, we have, we have in the need, and five, and five, and five, and five, we have, and yes, and five, we have, and yes, we have, and yes, and yes, and yes, we have, we have, and five, we have, and yes, we have, and five, and five, and yes, and yes, and yes, and yes, we have all, what we have all, what we have all, what we have, and five, we have, and five, and five, Also, tourism operators MICE, congress tourism, very important -- and much more in a year Jacob -- 800,000 euros; we increased by 20% the collaboration towards 2022 that we had usually, and we also gave you specific help to boost events carried out digitally, which were the only ones that could be celebrated during the months of the pandemic; also the tourist guides, who suffered especially in the absence of groups for many months, 250,000 euros of direct aid. And finally, nightlife, 8.8, almost 9 million euros, of which 4 were authorized this same year for the extension of the closure action, and also all they could get from the shock plans as hosts, generally, out of these 8.8 million euros of specific aid. [[Applause]] And, finally, in this aid plan, programmes to stimulate demand, the most known and the most successful, without any doubt -- not success here in Galicia, absolutely indisputable, but in this aid plan, in this aid plan, aid programmes to stimulate demand, the most known and most successful, without any doubt -- not success here in Galicia, which is absolutely indisputable, but imitated by other autonomous communities -- : the tourism bonus, which we launched the month of June, which we have set up, opened this time to all of the Greek citizenship and with a newness which has been introduced and which has also had a lot of acceptance: the 40 percent of the quantities, and which I have to thank you very much -- I have to thank you very much -- I have to thank you particularly -- I have helped other governments -- I have helped from other departments, specifically the Ourrense Deput all the Urense staff staff staff staff members, and the Turuary Deput all that we spent all this time and the entire budget consumption of today, with a very good day, very good demand, very high demand, very high demand, very high demand, a high demand, a high list of days, a high list of wait, and a day, and a high list of days, and a high expected list of days, and a day, and a day, and a high list of days, and a high expected list of days, and a day; and a high expected; and a high expected; and you have been provided, and you have gone, and you have gone, and you have gone, and you have gone, and you have gone, and you have gone, and that you will have gone, and that you have gone, and that you have got a high expected list of days; and that you have gone, and that you have gone, and that you have a good success, and that you have a high expected, and that you have gone, and that you will have a day, and that you have a high expected; and that you have a high expected; and that is the day; and that you will have gone, and that you have gone, and that you will have a day, and that you have a day, and that you have a day, and that you have a high high expected; and that you have a high expected; and that you have a high high expected; and that you have a high high expected; and that I think they're especially welcome and especially accommodating this kind of measure thinking that now we're actually entering a lower season, and therefore recalling that for consumption exclusively in Galicia and by Greeks and Greeks, there will undoubtedly be an important impulse to get rid of domestic demand in these lower season months. And they also re-edited very successful programs: Elixe Galicia, which was awarded as the best tourist product at the Fitur fair; it was 3 million euros of direct injection, especially again for the spas. And also to remember -- to finish on this balance of aid granted -- the coronovirus insurance, which was fortunately activated on many fewer occasions than initially expected, but which, without any doubt, was worth stimulus and security and a more opportunity to transfer that image from Galicia of safe destination; also copied later into other autonomous communities and which, without any doubt -- especially at the time it was put into force over the month of June -- was worth giving them a lot of security for many people to decide to travel for the first time and choose Galicia as the destination that offered them security. And -- I'm saying -- this is the data from the shock plan and the help from the rescue plans that were given when it was most missing, which was when there was no work in the tourist sector or when it started a timid recovery. Now that we're taking cruise speed without any doubt we must continue with the aid, it would make no sense not to follow this stimuli plan, that is, reorienting them and realizing that fortunately the situation has improved and more needs to improve. We therefore approve for this year 2022 what we call Plan Camina, which is another aid package of 46.6 million euros, 30.6 % more of the aids given this year, and which are divided into major features in aid to tourism companies, 21.6 million euros; aid to local entities, 21.7 million euros; and initiatives for family tourism, universities, non-profit entities, 3.3 million euros, which make up that total of nearly 47 of the Plan Camina, which will be in force during the year 2022. [[Applause]] The second of the axes I was referring to -- the first one was all about the aid, both the ones already granted and the ones to be granted in this 2022 -- is what it has to do with sustainable tourism, which -- I say -- the professionals in the tourism sector agree that it is future tourism; it was before the pandemic and it will be, without any doubt, after all this that we have been through. Therefore, many of the aids I mentioned were focused on and will continue to focus on those of the Road Plan on sustainable tourism. But we're going to especially approve the opportunity given by the state aid, or rather in money that comes from resilience plans -- not everything but a very important part -- and that within that spirit of governance -- that we hope it's something more than a slogan -- if we're offered to manage from a tourist point of view these support oriented towards sustainability. There are examples that don't even have to do with these resilience plan funds, the Next Generation funds; I'm talking about regular sustainability plans. In the year 2022, the events that started in 2020 in the Sacred Ribeira and Santiago de Compostela, 5 million euros, from which the Galician Union contributed almost 2. And in the year 2021, two other ordinary sustainability plans were approved: Ourense Thermal and The Navy were looking at EUR 5.4 million, from which the Galician Union contributed almost 2.5. But, without any doubt, the great opportunity is going to be -- I say it by the economic amounts and above all by its durability in time -- in the extraordinary sustainability plans that feed on the next generation funds. 82 million euros were allocated to Galicia until the year 2026 to develop in successive plans. Three plans, in particular, which are the ones that I proposed Galicia: Coastal Plan, which will now begin to run, almost 30 million euros -- 29,2 -- ; Enogastronomic Plan, 31.7 million euros, which will start from the year 2022; the Coastal Plan begins this year; and, finally, the Historical Village Plan, 21,1 million euros, which will launch, according to the programming agreed with the State Tourism Secretariat, in the year 2023. Let me briefly stop at the Coastal Plan, because that's what's most advanced and that's what has to start programming at least, and the amounts are already allocated, this year 2022. I think the election offers little discussion. I believe that if you are within the vast amount of natural resources and potentials that Galicia has without any doubt one of the biggest is all that has to do with our coastline: beaches, laughs, lighthouses, marine villages, at last, all those treasures that we have and that need to continue to be valued from a sustainable point of view in the tourist field. It is true that in recent years there has been a great transformation in everything that has to do with our coastline, from the point of view of the tourist sector. I'm talking about a great promotional effort of all administrations, improvement of communications, empowerment of nature tourism -- which is growing -- landscape, sports tourism, finally, all that can easily be connected to the values of the Galician coast. We therefore consider that intervention in this context to be appropriate, and the first proposal for the use of these recovery and resilience funds is at the heart of the Coastal Plan. The plans submitted by the local authorities to form part of this initiative have been put down. A joint assessment was made in which both the state and Galician assessments of the Union itself, by technicians from the Union and the State, and resulted in the approval, which was published these days, of nine plans, which will count on an budget of almost 15 million euros, namely 14.6. The projects declared suitable both for the technicians of the Union and for the technicians of the ministry are two of the Deputies of the Crown: the fragrances of the Eume and the development of its park and Ortegal cable and those of the Association of Rural Development of the Marines-Betanzos and of the River of the Virgin Walls; and those of the municipalities of Pontevedra, Ribeira, Sanxexo, Marín and Baiona. I insist -- it must be highlighted -- : plans valued from a technical point of view, by common agreement on the scores of the declared fit ones and entering the coastal axis. And, therefore, I have to say -- I have to say this here because it's a recent news -- our perplexity for the reaction through a press release yesterday from the Secretary of State for Tourism, who says textually: "The Secretariat of State for Tourism may request changes with regard to its content" and does not feel bound by the assessments made by the Secretariat of State for Tourism itself. Well, this is really curious, I don't know if it responds to some kind of touch, to some kind of bronca a posteriori. But finally, I suppose when someone values a project from a technical point of view, it's because he thinks technically it's the valuation he deserves. So, apart from expressing our surprise -- not to say anything else -- we're sure that both the technicians and even the political leaders -- of course, those of the Galician Union itself and those of the State Secretariat of Tourism hope that also, until now, they have shown nothing else -- are consistent with assessments that they seek is objectivity and the best orientation and the best use of these funds. Apart from these plans, promoted by local authorities and which have this fitness assessment, we must add others that will present the Galician Union itself within these resilience plans on the coastal tourism axis. It is EUR 8 million presented by the Galician Board for the rehabilitation of facades and emblematic resources on the Galician coast. We're talking about new tourist uses, conservation of coastal heritage, lighthouses, canteen factories, support establishments that are already working -- and very well -- in the coastal tourism environment to keep them improving. That would be 7.9 million euros. Then, something more than 3 million euros to continue promoting Galicia as a nautical destination, for cruises, seafarers, nautical tourism activities -- which are taking a lot of momentum and where we have to remain a reference --. And finally, 3.6 million euros for setting up value for the Galician Coastal Agenda; I'm talking about improving the flexibility of many plots, improving signaling, improving security, focusing on the improvement of maritime facades that are seen from the sea in many tourist establishments; ultimately, a lot of things that can be done. This would have to do with the sustainable tourism and plans we want to make this year. I insist: during the year 2022 will be the turn of enogastronomic tourism in resilience plans and in the year 2023 will begin what has to do with historical helmets. And the third area of action -- of the three that I wanted to refer to -- has to see logically, as it used to be, with all the opportunity that's going to suppose a Jacobo year that we expect it to be complete. After the wonderful news that came to us from the point of view of the recovery of the Way in the second half of this year, we hope that this may be a twelve-month Xacobeo full of twelve months from January 1st, without forgetting -- and we don't -- that there are two months left to take advantage of this year 2021; the huge luck of having a double year Jacoboo for the first time in history. What did we do this year 2021? Well, everything that could be done under the circumstances. Logically, everything that has to do with the essence of Xacobeo. Great musical performances, cultural performances and great group mergers were logically -- as everyone knows and can understand -- very limited by the circumstances of the coward. But still, that didn't mean that from June on, most of all, you couldn't do a lot of things, reprogramming them sometimes about walking according to health conditions. Thus, the Way Sound, the Perseidas Festival, was reformed into concerts at the end of the world, concerts at the lighthouses of Galicia, lines of grant to promote concerts in cities and villages -- which are being held today as well -- and another initiative such as the Band Country -- 77 musical groups that are performing concerts during these months and will be doing it until December 31st --. We've also done a lot of training and reflection around the Jacobean phenomenon, which is something that's getting bigger and bigger. We held eight meetings of the Xacobeo Peregrinas program. The Vexo program, I see Xacobeo from a school point of view for the involvement of many children throughout Galicia, which is very successful and is often the first contact with the Jacobo of these boys and girls. He also focused heavily on promoting sports activities linked to Xacobeo: Return Cycling -- well, final and stages in Galicia -- Pantín Classic, World Adventure Racing Championship; finally, many events that, as they might be held according to health conditions, had the support of Xacobeo when we created and when we thought that would have a positive impact from that point of view. We look very much for the involvement of the host populations and, in general, of all the municipalities in Galicia. We believe that, whether they have a way through that municipal term, at the end of the 313 municipalities of Galicia in one way or another, they have to be involved in the city of Xacobeo. The program Your Xacobeo, which in the month of Christmas of 2020 called for an important acceptance and drew attention from the promotional point of view of the Xacobeo, of a Xacobeo who was about to start and that's what was being sought. The Jacobean gave life to the historical helmets through the Way, that decoration that is being made in all the historical helmets that cross a path. Your Xacobeo program, of enormous success, so much so that it will be repeated this year, has had an investment already of 8 million euros, which I subject to nearly 600 projects promoted by cultural associations, non-profit organizations or even municipalities, at last, all kinds of organizations that could present and execute -- and are running, with funding from the Galician Union -- activities related to Xacobeo, and of course also all advertising campaigns, I think very successful, both those that were done in the media and those that were carried out through social networks, people with a lot of footprints on social networks that talked about Xacobeo, they assumed that others had come here too, and, ultimately, lots of impacts on social networks related to Xacobeo, all positively impacted by all these campaigns. This is about programming and promotion. We continue in the Xacobeo and we want to continue in the year 2022 with everything that has to do with the investments to keep it in the perfect state of the magazine and let everyone continue to say that it tastes good when you enter Galicia, seeing how careful the roads are and how it is noticed that we are the final autonomous community of all the roads, and we have it very present at the time of care; 6.1 million euros in road conservation interventions in the year 2021 and 4.4 million euros in road infrastructures. We're going to continue to have a lot of impact on road safety, which is fundamental; we believe that the Way has to be safe in all directions, from the health point of view, from the point of view of public safety, of course, and also from the point of view of road safety, for reasons everyone can understand. Much work remains to be done. A short time ago, the Director General of Traffic was here, committed to acting on the roads of his title; we hope so. The Galician Union has to do it on the autonomous roads crossed by the roads. And local administrations, especially deputies, have to do it on provincial roads. The Galician Union, 70 performances, 1.5 million euros this year 2021. And to continue to act in the following years? We have three Jacobs ahead, we're talking about the Jacobean decade and so it wouldn't make any sense to plan, of course there's planning for this year 2022, but we have to plan for the longer term to be effective. That's why we're finalizing the Master Plan of the Santiago 2022-2027 roads. Many things have to be done: delimiting paths to avoid any kind of confusion in the plots and, at the same time, being rigorous in the plot; I think it's one of the essences, keeping the essences of the Path also consists of this. All the roads that are not yet definitive must be officially delineated: Portuguese of the Coast, Mozarab Way of the Silver Road, Winter Road, Forest and Muxia... all of them will have their delimitation already final. It will also include measures for the conservation, care and signage of road safety, as I said, and modernization of housing supply; ultimately, everything that will result in that in this long Jacobean decade that we will enjoy everything perfectly prepared. Public hostel network, fundamental, EUR 13 million invested in the year 2021. This year the Vigo hostel came into operation, almost 2 million; The Gudina, almost 400,000 euros; Sobredo dos Monxes, almost 800,000 euros. And we also made a plan of works of improvement in the most-used shelters: King's Palaces and Pino are two good examples, 2.4 million euros, Ribadiso...; finally, all those who have a greater use, taking advantage of the paroon that was there in the first few months of the year. In 2022 we will continue to make this public network of hostels: Oseira, O Savinhao, Vilasantar, Piñor, Ferrol, Riós... if we are also able in the city of Coruña. Finally, to complete the network also taking into account one thing: that the network of private hostels works exceptionally, we have magnificent private-initiative hostels and what we have to do, apart from maintaining the public network logically, is to support them to continue to be a source of wealth, especially in municipalities that up to that moment had very few tourist establishments. [[Applause]] And finally -- and I'm going to end up already, Mr. President -- we're also going to make an effort in that road director plan and everything that has to do with digitization, with the renovation of furniture that needs to be done in some shelters for its use. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the second year of Xacobeo the investment will be €85.8 million. If we add up to 2021 and 2022, more than 170 million euros invested from Galician Union in Xacobeo. To make a difference in the comparison of magnitudes, the Government's Jacobean National Plan will allocate 120 million euros in two years; Galician Union 171. Logically, this gives an idea of the importance given here and of the importance, greater or lesser, that we thank -- we have already said from the beginning -- that the state does in the allocation of the Jacobean National Plan; another thing is forgetting where it was presented, forgetting a number of things; what we want to do is that it happens, because it is true that this is no longer an ad, 120 million euros, but if you go to the general government budget project there is absolutely nothing to do with the Jacobean. We're told they're generalist games; finally, we're told a lot of things. We need certainty and know where that money is from the Jacob National Plan and, above all, that money that is said to be allocated to Galicia. We have only one certainty, it is true that she has spoken, but there is no need to doubt that word, even though the background to which I referred earlier sometimes with some action by the Secretariat of State of Tourism causes perplexity, but I hope that this is also kept in the 22.7 million euros committed to the rehabilitation of cultural interest goods for tourism purposes on the Jacobean roads. Galicia told her that she's going to have 22.7 million euros, we've been told that we've selected them by talking to many municipalities; many municipalities have made transfer agreements with goods, logically I'm BIC on the Santiago Way, many of them belonging to private institutions and also putting in the bag of private institutions in the Catholic Church. We were told two weeks ago that no agreement can be made with the Catholic Church. We have been forced to reprogramming, which we still do not understand very well today, because there are many opportunities to restore monuments which, regardless of religious beliefs, is worth preserving without any doubt. We were told no, in a change that we have no choice but to take care of, even if we argue and we find ourselves very questionable, for the speed of using those funds. So this reformulation was done and ten days ago, an eleven BIC relationship was sent to the Secretariat of Tourism State, in which intervention was proposed: Monterei Castle, Tui Old Prison, Atlantic Islands National Park, Hercules Tower, Western Towers in Catóira, Salvora Island, the Sacred Ribeira, Santa Trega Castle, Lérez River bank in Pontevedra, Castro Museumization in Vigo and Pasadempo Park in Betanzos. There's not much more than this announcement, which, of course, I want to do here in this camera, because we have no more concretes. If the funds are concrete and how to use them, of course we'll explain what it is. But to this day I say again that we have only this commitment, almost verbal, and not one reflection on the budgets of the Council of Galicia. So, let's hope that the budget project doesn't ignore Jacob's where it matters -- right? -- which are the creations of games; we'll see if that's the case, because it would be very serious after all the announcements and the goodwill expressed by the Galician Union in respect of those announcements. The background isn't very good. We asked for the template to be completed in the Assistant Police Unit thinking precisely about Xacobeo. We know nothing at this point, about to end this year. We asked for more information on that commitment from the Directorate General of Traffic to eliminate black spots on state roads that cross the Road; we know nothing more than a verbal commitment from the Director General of Traffic, who was here two months ago and I accompanied him and said that this would go ahead, but we don't know anything else. We know nothing of the commitments of the Royal Patroado expressed in very important amounts by the President of the Government himself, Pedro Sánchez, who was here and we thank him, on the occasion of July 25, and made great announcements about commitments that were to be made through the Patroado and that today have no reflection in the general budgets of the State. Now tell us the mayor of Santiago who are, they're European funds and they don't have a realization that can be identified. Well, the same excuse as for the Jacob National Plan. We'd like to know and we'd like to know that if we were told what funds they are, to be able to use them, not for anything else, and not to make any other struggles than those that had come from gross non-compliance with commitments, if these amounts are ultimately not. I say this because again, for example, 20 million to Barcelona for the city's scientific cultural capitality; these are perfectly explained in the budget, and from Xacobeo we have to look for them and even make an act of faith, which we hope will eventually have a good end. Nor is it a good sign that today and after repeatedly asking itself, even by this parliament, to extend the tax reliefs that were planned for a one-year Jacob of a single year, 2021, when they pass to 2022, the logic is that tax reliefs that allow many sponsors to welcome them in order to finance activities of the Jacobean continue to be as if there was no extension of the Year of Xacobeo in 2022. It is quite incomprehensible and, of course, we must continue to claim that this treatment, which without any doubt would be given to another event of this magnitude that had been done in some other autonomous community in which we can all be thinking, be the same for Galicia, thinking that the Xacobeo is the plan, the national tourist event this year. All of this is very good, but we must prove it with facts. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's hope so. I therefore conclude, at least this first intervention, Mr President. I tried to make a small, hasty, first of the figures, of the magnificent figures that we had in this second part of the year 2021, which make, first, confirm all the hopes in a tourist sector that has endured given its professionalism very difficult months, with the help of some administrations, from the beginning of the Council of Galicia, the good prospects we have for the year 2022, the opportunities that we have for European funds and the certainty that with the raw material we have, which is our autonomous community, its tourist resources, its great professionals and administrations, if we work well, it can be a magnificent tourist year for Galicia in the year 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u4	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Leticia Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Vice President first. We are in the country of wonders of course, Mr. Vice-President; according to you, everything is perfect in this country where we are. Well, we can all confirm that we are in recovery after the worst crisis in the tourist sector in their history. Month by month data confirms that the national reactivation of tourism and international mobility is progressing gradually. It's true that we're still on our way, but it's also true that we can go through the path that remains with the highest degree of certainty and security that when we start this fight against the effects of the coronavirus. And this is, of course, thanks to the professionalism of a sector that I've been able to adapt in a record time to the strictest health requirements for pandemic control. Thank you to the whole tourism sector in Galicia for the great effort you've made to make the summer season go well. Because without them and they would not be possible that success of tourism of what you just talked about, Mr. President. [[Applause]] Thank you, thank you very much for the whole tourist sector. It must also be acknowledged that tourism recovery has been largely possible thanks to policies promoted by all public administrations. The improvement in tourism figures in Galicia this summer was also possible thanks to the municipalities, the deputies and the great work of the Government of Spain. It is not only a merit of the Council of Galicia, Mr Vice-President; it is a merit of all, of all administrations, of all and of all. At the end of the summer season we found that the reactivation of tourism took place as originally planned by the Government of Spain and as well as the main international sectoral organizations, such as the World Tourism Organization. The first to recover fully was internal tourism, which is the majority in our autonomous community, followed at a slower but progressive pace by tourism in our neighbours. In the central months of summer, July and August, the guesthouses of residents in Spain exceeded the pre- pandemic values. So what happened in Galicia is the same thing that happened across Spain. Which is good, which is very good, and we're all in the same line that's good. That doesn't doubt anyone, but it's not Galician. The summer we've had after such difficult months is nothing more than the fruit of a collective work and it's an achievement of all. The first protagonists, as I said, are the entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurs, the workers, the tourism workers, who made their professionalism and commitment worth. But, in addition, this summer is the result of a vaccination strategy that has placed Spain at the head of the countries with the highest rate of vaccinated population in the full calendar: 78% of the total population and 88% of the target population. Today the world looks at us as an example of the confidence that Spanish citizenship has shown in its public health system. We're talking about more than 71 million vaccines administered in less than 11 months, 71 million vaccines that have generated us deep pride in the public action of the state, the state in all its representation, from the Ministry of Health to the last smaller municipality, and highlighting the cooperation, of course, of all autonomous communities. And, of course, pride, pride of all health professionals, who, without knowing it, became tourist agents, because with each inoculated vaccine, with each certificate issued, they contributed in a committed way to the tourism policy of our country. We want to thank all the sanitaries, who vaccinated the entire population of Galicia, who made a huge effort to get us all vaccinated in the summer. [[Applause]] This success was theirs. Thanks to everyone and to everyone. That's right, now the Galician Union is missing from them and even lowers the budget by 2 million in primary care; that's how they thank you, Mr. Rueda, is how they thank you. [[Applause]] All Spain was able to show itself this summer as a secure destination; I repeat: all Spain was able to show itself this summer as a secure destination. And that has contributed to the success of the vaccination process and the mobility standards applied in a coherent way. The Galician Union must realize that the Greek tourist sector has to be more than the Jacobean, than the Way of Santiago, which, of course, is important and we don't care about it, of course not. But we have to do more, we have to do a lot more for our tourism, because Galicia has a lot of tourist wealth. Today, Mr. Vice-President, I feel generous, and I'm going to make some suggestions with the only objective of improving our tourism. Look, you solve the subject of hostel flexibility, which I've already told you on several occasions. Let's hope that with the money they now have in the budgets of 2022, they review the conservation of the roads, which has just said are wonderful all the paths through which they pass -- it is worth redundancy -- the Way of Santiago, but there are arrangements that are in bad condition, as I say two, in Vilaboa or in Mos; please review it and with those budgets of that departure, in addition to 7 million going in 2022, do that review and arrange the paths of Santiago. I also solve, please, the problems of the geodestinies, for example, by putting some problems in the geodestinies The Ancares-the Courel or the Poor Trives. The Socialist Parliamentary Group regrets the confusion generated by the Galician Union around the concept of geodestiny, which remains effective when it becomes the driving instrument of tourism that collects Law 7/2011, something which is particularly serious at this time of economic crisis, where the tourist sector needs clarity and policies of encouragement to overcome the impact of cowardice. The Galician Union has to open a dialogue process with municipalities and deputies to study and redefine possible changes in the current geodestiny map. Galicia is also one of the largest spa communities in Spain. That's why we need to develop projects and initiatives that make this autonomous leadership visible and contribute to the development of the community's thermal villages with the bathing facilities in operation. We must also collaborate in the renewal of the thermal supply and in the development and implementation of new thermal projects, and it is also a great tool for the destabilization of tourism. Another suggestion I make to you, Mr. Vice-President first: you have to address plural tourism in an integral way in its impact on the territory, given its relevance and impact in generating wealth, dynamizing communities and setting up the population in the emptied Galicia. From this perspective, an integral conception beyond the simple and unique consideration of rural tourism housing is essential. We have to use tourism as a vector of wealth, which enables rural development to be valued and to fight against depopulation, taking advantage of the so-called effect and the new sensitivity towards the rural generated by the pandemic so that the population will return to work in rural areas and in time allow people to go like tourists and know our richness in rural areas. They develop a true rescue plan specific to the field of verbenas, hostel and nightlife; more help, Mr Vice-President. And it ends with this last suggestion: it's essential to push the transformation of our tourist destinations towards sustainability and digitization. These suggestions would be a good forecast to be carried out in 2022, if at some point they wanted to incorporate them. We do it to cooperate and add, to improve our tourism sector. There's a lot left to do, there's a lot left to do in our tourist sector, they get to work. We're on our way to recovery and it looks like we're going back to normal, but normal will never be the same as before, and we still have to overcome the pandemic and accompany the tourism sector in its recovery. All the effort of the Galician Union should be directed to understand the moment in which tourism and its sector are living, to accompany all its agents, large and small, in the necessary transformation, along with the local authorities and the Government of Spain, and to become an element of rapid and effective innovation and management. Nothing else on my side, and thanks a lot to everyone and everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u6	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u7	Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Mr. Rueda. From then on, the balance of the tourist season, of the results obtained by the sector during the summer season, is positive and is, of course, a very good news of which, of course, we all rejoice. The eruption of the fifth wave, no longer beginning the summer season, made him afraid perhaps by that season, but the good rate of vaccination, the necessary restrictive measures of movement, the limitations of spare time, as well as the behavior, above all the responsible behavior of most of the population, allowed him to coincide in August with the decline of the contagions and hospitalizations, that reactivation of the tourist activity was palpable; everyone could see it, and I think that this is something to rejoice at, to bless us all. The numbers are good and they show two things: on the one hand, the enormous capacity for resistance and recovery of the Greek tourism business and the tremendous potential that can reach Galicia if it consolidates itself as a preferred destination. But a fair analysis, an honest analysis of this good data would require a little self-criticism, which I missed in your first intervention, Mr. Rueda. First of all, it wouldn't be too much for you to remember or refer to at least thousands of related or tourism-dependent businesses, especially in hotels and the rest of restoration, which had to close their doors permanently last year and which, therefore, did not already arrive at the recovery that took place this summer. Thousands of small and medium-sized businesses, many of them family members, have lowered the grids drowned by the tremendous snowball that was generated by the fact that they still have to blow up current expenses generated by their businesses while their billing was either reduced or zero, by the measures that were taken to curb the spread of the virus. Just in the toughest of the pandemic, from March to November, the state government and the United States left one of the most affected sectors of the pandemic. For nine months neither the State nor the Union have articulated a single line of direct aid to tourists that would allow them, at least, to blow up the rent, the receipts of light or water, or the essential maintenance or cleaning costs. While the sector was bleeding, the Union indicated to the representatives of the sector which was the State which should articulate the aid, and to the State which was the competence of the Union. And while the Union and the State were throwing the ball at each other, from the BNG Parliamentary Group we again and again called for that direct aid to be jointed, getting a no in response from the Galician Union and the PP. Since the German Government, for weeks, they have been looking at a plan to reactivate the cultural and tourist sector in April that would solve all the problems in the sector at that time, the Plan to reactivate the tourism and cultural sector, which was more a propaganda exercise than a really realistic and effective aid program. He left out many beneficiaries and the main measures contained, in the form of soft credits, did not have a great deal of acceptance, precisely because he was supposed to be indebted to a situation of great uncertainty. This plan, in addition, contained no direct support, which was one of the main demands of the sector. Other measures you also referred to, such as the aid lines open for digitisation, required a prior economic disbursement at the time when the lack of liquidity caused by activity restrictions was a very serious problem, and had to wait up to ten months after the publication of the aid calls for the Board to pay the remaining 50% of the grants. At a time when the lack of liquidity was suffocating, the German Government was not at the height. And, therefore, there is indeed a political responsibility of the Board of Galicia, of Mr. Feijóo, in the closure of these thousands of businesses last year, from which it is not, of course, exempt the Government of the State. And the Spanish State, to rule the PP or the PSOE -- in that case it doesn't matter -- that it doesn't give Galicia a fair deal is not something new, but that the Galician Union, competing for that, didn't articulate that line of help is, of course, unforgivable. And when we started in November, nine months after the beginning of the pandemic, we announced the first and the second rescue plan, since the BNG we reported that these intended rescue plans did not solve the serious problems of sectors such as tourism, due to the insufficiency of their budget, and we asked the Board to articulate a genuine rescue plan, already in December, rejected by the PP Parliamentary Group, which also rejected an amendment from the BNG to budgets in that sense. Later months later they had to get more help; if they arrived in September, the situation would probably have changed. The state aid, channelled by the Union through the so-called third rescue plan, has not solved anything either, by the requirements demanded, and since the BNG we had no problem in supporting a People's Party initiative by asking for a flexibility of those demands, so that they could reach more beneficiaries. Despite all this, much of the tourist sector came alive in the summer, showing its resilience. In view of the tourist and business valuation report produced by Exceltur, we must be extremely careful about expectations for the end of this year and next. Then I don't agree with your interpretation, I understand how positive, of expectations. There's a clear trend towards reactivation of tourist activity -- that's what we've always agreed on -- but we must always take into account the accumulated declines in incomes in July 2021, which relativize those good forecasts. Thus, in the case of Xacobeo, the economic impact of pilgrims was in 2020 seven times lower than expected, according to a study by the Federations of Friends of the Way of Santiago. And that's got to be raised. In the year 2021 it was well advanced in the summer when the influx of pilgrims began to increase. Therefore, any positive data should be analysed with utmost care and without any kind of triumphalism, as well as when international tourism, with significant weight also in Xacobeo, according to the World Tourism Organization, in the best case it will begin to take reactivation pace at the end of this year and the recovery of the volume of visitors and tourists and the pre- pandemic spending will still take years. According to the Exceltur Report, Galicia is one of the state destinations that shows a positive dynamic -- that's true -- with an increase in tourist demand -- it's also true --. But in the first eight months of this year, Galicia occupies the seventh position in the state ranking of tourist demand, behind the main tourist destinations of the state; but it is true what you said, with a level of recovery, in relative terms -- look! --, just below Asturias and Navarre, which shows that we recovered quickly, but that we're still too far from what we should. Right away, the priority must be to get visitors back, and for that it plays to our favor a little massification, proximity, and of course also price. But if we want to be a consolidated destination, we must reflect on Galicia's position in the tourist market and analyze the strengths and weaknesses of our management model as destination. Whatever happens this year and in the year 2022, it becomes essential to address structural deficiencies in our tourism, such as positioning in international markets, connectivity, territorial distribution of more balanced tourist flows and, of course, unseasonalization. For this, first of all, we need to place tourism -- not just Xacobeo, tourism -- as the country's priority. Since the BNG we have been asking the Board for a reorientation of the model, since Xacobeo absorbs investments that should go to other vital issues for Galicia from a tourist point of view. We've said it many times: thermal tourism -- which you referred to before -- but also urban, cultural, nautical, complementing Xacobeo and at the same time allowing the diversification of the tourist offer and achieving a more distributive and fair model with the whole territory. In this we would achieve in the short term -- in the short term -- neutralizing two of these eaves that I just referred to earlier, structural, with a territorial distribution of the most balanced tourist flows and, above all, the destabilization. To overcome the eves that we have about connectivity and positioning in international markets, we need something we've already dealt with in his last appearance: that the Greek Government has more political weight. In order for the sector and for Galicia to become a consolidated tourist destination, it is necessary to have the capacity to access those forums that make vital decisions, in this case for tourism and, above all, to have political and institutional respect. But this can only be achieved by sinking into self-government, assuming all of the competences that correspond to our country. Because if you don't assume these skills that allow you to have tools to deal with such transcendental changes as those that are necessary to engage in tourism, the action of the Union will depend on the ongoing dialogue with the Spanish State. From what you said earlier in relation to sustainability plans, that dialogue seems to be a bit addicted. But what's perhaps the reason for this? That during the pandemic the Government of Galicia, instead of looking for those spaces of understanding and dialogue with the Spanish State that allowed to consensualize measures that would favour our tourism, was enthralled in a partisan struggle. And in the end, those who got hurt about it are the Greeks and the gales, of that purely partisan position which in no way benefited the tourist sector. If we don't assume any more competences, Junta should try to keep channels flowing with the state to act on certain basic issues that today are state competence. Because if it's a consolidated tourist destination, it requires regular direct air connections, high-speed rail connections -- the AVE still doesn't know when it will arrive -- but also the proximity train. The importance of indoor tourism has also demonstrated the need to boost the proximity train. It is also necessary to consolidate in the international circuits of large cruises in a planned and sustainable way or to enhance the Atlantic axis, with the importance of placing Galicia in the centre of many European policies and, of course, also in the field of tourism. The summer season can be considered positive for Greek tourism. That's something that I think we all should be glad about, but a balance of summer's fair can't prevent the accumulated falls for months and necessarily relativize those two numbers, and at the same time, an honest analysis of expectations can't avoid the structural deficiencies of Greek tourism. It is essential in this sense that the self-criticism on the part of the Union, because without it any analysis of the future will be short-sighted, small-minded. It becomes essential to reorient tourism policies, not only immediately to celebrate recovery, but also to a more long-term vision, which affects the evolution of the tourism model. Because we must tend to the environmental, economic and social sustainability of tourism, improving the competitiveness of our companies and the territories themselves that make up that destination. Galicia has a brutal tourist potential, has a tourist sector that has shown the ability to readapt and resist, so starting from self-criticism -- I insist -- which allows a realistic X-ray of the sector, we must think big. Since the BNG we've done it, we think Galicia is great, we'd better go to all of us, and to all of us if the PP stopped thinking about our country in a small way. Nothing else on my part. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Verea Fraiz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u8	Thank you, President. We're on a weather balance show, and so the really important thing is data, the figures, and the comparisons. This is going to allow us to target the issue in a very specific way. From the appearance of the vice president there is a clear conclusion: that the data are very good, very satisfactory, and therefore this is good news not only for professionals, for the whole tourist sector, but also for the Greek society and for the Greek economy. So it's hard to find tissues, but, well, we understand that from the previous two rounds many fall into the opposition's obligation to try to find some weakness. The figures are unquestionable, the figures are unappealable, it's not a matter of repeating here Mr. Vice President's data list, but there are some who are screaming. If we talk about summer, we're the only destination in Spain that managed to recover the demand level before the pandemic, we're better at the occupancy rate. And if we're talking about the segment of the hospitality sector in particular, because we're dealing with the best historical data in the historical series, the second best data taking 2017; we can compare 2020 to the year 2021 and then the progressions are evident, above 80%. So the tourist industry knew how to prepare itself, how to react, and how to face a challenge that is, at least, or was, at least, unimaginable. So this good news is also at risk of being hidden in a list of data that may be confusing. So I like to do the exercise of going back, of drawing us back a few months, when there was no tourism directly, there was no mobility, there was no transport, there was no, there were no relationships between people and therefore there was no tourism; just projections were very worrying waiting for the evolution of vaccination. If we make that effort to back those months, at that exact moment, well, the challenge, the titanical challenge that the sector faced is shown in a much more graphic way. So things went well. Everyone, things have done well, and it's also important to say so, both the tourist professionals and the Galician Union. There was a work with complexity, a work and a joint effort, which is what I understand is one of the fundamental keys to the success of the data that we are currently analyzing in this plenary session. In that joint work, from the very first moment when the pandemic was declared, there was this generalized uncertainty when the complicated restrictive decisions had to be made. So there was also dialogue, there was joint work, there was analysis of the different possibilities, and also to design the help packages. Not a decision by the Galician Council was taken or taken without speaking, without dialogue and, in most cases, reaching agreement with the representatives of the tourist sector. So dialogue, unity of action and joint responsibility; the three keys, to, as I said, be able to be analysing this data today that we have here. The Galician Union, for its part, was the autonomous administration which percent mobilized more public resources; in addition, it did so faster. We can talk about the first shock plan, we can talk about the three rescue plans, we're going to do a separate chapter with the third rescue plan, including the sectoral programmes that Mr. Vice-President listed. But there is an objective fact: we have been the autonomous community which has mobilized more autonomous public resources, percent, and which, in addition, has done it faster through that administrative procedure than ever before, not even the self-government itself, and which has been blessed throughout the sector and even in this third plan, has missed a lot. All these plans and all these aids listed by the vice president had two main principles or two key ideas: on the one hand, reacting to a critical situation to one of the most punished sectors, and on the other hand, taking advantage of all this mobilization of public resources to also improve or make a high-quality leap in what offers, services and different tourist structures are. We wouldn't be responsible if from this rostrum because we hadn't also reported that all this, all the aid packages and direct aid to the Galician Union had to do it alone. The central government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, activated the ERTEs, activated the ICOs, right, two important instruments, but from there he forgot. All the aid packages, all the compensating lines, or, as we want to call them, rescue plans, they've remained in the hands of the autonomous communities without any kind of directive, with genuine discoordination and therefore with genuine ineffectiveness. It's a shame, because the rescue plans we said before, which mobilized a lot of autonomous resources, would have been much more efficient if we had the power that the central government's budget has, and we didn't count on that budget, because they would have brought more assistance to the professionals, they would have arrived in greater numbers, and today they would have less debt and a greater strength to face the final phase -- hopefully -- of the health crisis and the economic crisis. As I say, some of the data that are still being and that we have to insist that they are good news, good news for Greek society, but also for the Greek economy. But prudence and responsibility already make us think about leaving celebrations and congratulations on the data, starting to work on what's the year 2022. Right now we're in the autumn season and in the winter season, but we have to start thinking about the year 2022, and we're all waiting, we all want it to be a historic year. It's historical now, because it's formally the Jacobite biennium, but we want the tourist affluence data to turn it into a historical year as well. There are aspects that make us optimistic. First of all, professionals, the sector is much more prepared than last year. He's more prepared because last year he came out of a practice of paralysis, he had to absorb a large amount of tourist demand; besides, he did -- as I say -- with great success, he absorbed all that demand with that quality leap and, besides, projecting, which is more important, that image of Galicia as a secure destination, that image of Galicia as a destination of trust. This parliamentary group, Mr Vice-President, wants to bless you as the visible head of a team of professionals who has been working with the sector for many months to bring you forward from a critical situation and also to bless, of course, the entire tourism sector in Greece. The data are there, it's consolidating change, we're already evolving, taking advantage of the opportunity that involuntaryly left the pandemic towards that future tourism, towards that post-pandamy tourism, which has to be more sustainable, of greater added value, much more experiential value. This road that is marking the tourist sector must also be used in some way by the rest of the economic sectors and associated value chains to get out -- as I said earlier -- of this health crisis and this much stronger economic crisis. Nothing else on this first shift; there are some aspects left here for the turn of clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u9	Thank you, Mr Verea. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for the good tone and even the suggestions made by the opposition spokesmen, but I don't think it touches anything else. In fact, they both came to recognize -- and then also the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group -- that the data are good and that they admit little discussion. Luckily, the data is good and, therefore, what it touches is to celebrate it. Then I understand perfectly that there are different ratings, but what we shouldn't be doing is losing our objectivity. I'm going to try to answer that by the two spokespersons, the PSOE spokesperson and the BNG spokesperson. I very much insisted that Mrs Gallego's merit of the figures -- which, I say, she recognized that they were good, had little discussion -- was thanks to the sector. I just said it, I started out there, there's no doubt about it. The sector went through very badly for many months and when the recovery came, if it wasn't a strong, professional sector and it knew it was hard and ripe, because that recovery I don't know if it would be impossible, but of course it would be much harder and, of course, it wouldn't give much less the figures and good data that we all agree on. Then I said to Mrs. Gallego that it is not only a merit of the Galician Union, that it is a merit of all administrations. Of course, some more than others, because then the numbers sing. If in direct aid some administrations decided to give help and others said it was something else, because in direct aid we won't all have the same merit. But of course everyone tried it, I don't know any administration that especially wishes for purpose and that works so that a sector as important as the tourist goes wrong, but quite the opposite. But each one made the second effort understood that it was worth it, and we understood that it was worth it and much. That's why, Mrs. Gallego, I come here to talk about what I'm about, I'm a member of the Government of Galicia's board and, therefore, I have to come here to talk in an appearance about the tourist balance of what you've done to the board of Galicia. And each one of them. I speak of the Board of Galicia and you speak of Peter Sánchez; they always speak of Peter Sánchez at all times; even if you don't attack, you defend him by system, even if you don't thank him very much. But, well, there you go! What did the Central Government have to see about the recovery of tourism in Galicia? Yes, of course, in the part that touches him, but it's one part that I'd like it to have been much bigger and much more concrete, frankly. He repeated it up to four times -- I told them, and maybe some more -- that wasn't only in Galicia, it was everywhere. But I'm trying not to talk from us! If when we talk about that in Galicia was especially good, we're talking about all the municipalities: those who rule you, those who rule us, the Union of Galicia. Everyone benefits. What a bet! Well, Mrs. Gallego, it's not true, we're not equal, we're 25% better than the national average, and so this should serve us to have even more differential, because tourism is a very competitive world and therefore we should work for it. What a bet! It seems to bother her that Galician data is better than other autonomous communities. So it's wrong to do this; this is to consolidate it. And if we're 25 percent above the national average, it's because there's a lot of national tourists who used to go to other places and now they're coming to Galicia. So let's work to keep this going. Did they meet us? So now that they repeat and tell more people who can come here. It's just that there are a lot of things here that maybe they didn't know or they didn't value enough and that now they can start to do it because they knew it at the best time, when they started to sort this out. So let's not strive for not a credit to the Galician Union; finally, it's a credit to Galician. And, therefore, we are better and we must continue to be better, and this is not due to inertia nor to Mr. Pedro Sanchez, because of the work of many people. It's just that if we think that's why we're going to cross our arms and we're not going to make this success. This was for the work, starting with, of the professionals, first of all, without any doubt, but also of the administrations that were especially involved, and we're going to keep doing it. For example, you were talking about thermal tourism. Man, I know it's important, and that's why we made that summer thermal and autumn thermal. And I'm serious: if you have a transfer capacity, we've tried but they don't listen to us very much, they don't listen to the professionals from the spas in Galicia and, in general, from the low-season hostel in Galicia, which cries out because today's Imserso, after an empty year, in 2020, is still unstarted. And now it's said that until December and January they won't start Imserso's programs, which had to take months. So, man!, a little less of talking about the values of thermalism and a little more of working to get customers to thermalism these months throughout Spain, when they had to come and have the program of the Imserso absolutely stopped. Tell me, too, that we're working on a real rescue plan. Well, I'd be the third of Galicia's board. We've actually already taken two, 120 million euros totally disbursed at four months, like it's too late, to be summoned; we've done four months and everything disbursed. So we've already taken two. You either elaborate or let us develop a real one with that money from the third rescue plan. Don't you draw attention to the fact that 120 million euros from the Galician board in four months, many more requests that could be met, and all disbursed in four months, and to the plan designed by you, distributed through the Galician board but under its conditions, 70% without even asking for it? Doesn't it seem to you that something has to fail there, that something was doing wrong in that design? Do you still need that money? You still need it, you know it as well as I do. Something must be wrong with the state when they force us to put on certain conditions that suppose it can't be granted, they're not asking for them anymore, because they say it's impossible for the conditions that you put in. So, man! a little coherence and above all a little effectiveness so they can change those criteria. Now they've changed something, to see if we're capable of this second attempt to pass a little of their requirements -- which you see doesn't talk much to the hosts, because if you don't see those results -- and we're able to apply the criteria of the Galician Union to the third rescue plan that comes with the criteria of the state and that failed. Talk to me too -- I don't want to leave anything -- yes, Santiago's Way. Well, I know, we all know. Galicia had in 2019 -- and we aspired to repeat a very similar figure in 2022 -- more than 5 million tourists, and we already know that in the pilgrims in a spectacular figure they didn't reach 400,000 Compostes. But you'll agree with me, because if you wouldn't disagree with your own Ministry of Central Government Tourism, which declared it -- you didn't put it into money -- the national tourist event of the year 2021, in which the Way of Santiago is a powerful brand to attract a lot of people. And yesterday there was a study in Fairway where it was said to have a higher expense for pilgrims of almost twice a normal tourist, and above all that 80% of those who come as pilgrims repeat later and come with more people. So they don't argue about it, they don't do it like those of the block, which we know they don't like the Xacobeo, as much as they repeat it. Now after that campaign they seem to have to say many times that they do, that they do like them, but it's not so important. You're getting hit, biting that dangerous trend, and that's why it's not right, I'm telling you honestly. [[Murmurs.]] They don't go well, what they have to do is work, how the Galician Union works, how they work so many municipalities of all political colors, by kicking up an ordained Jacob, which preserves its essences, which doesn't fall into circumstances that have really lost the values it has. For all of this, you have to work and you have to take good care of it, of course. And you tell me there's a plot in Vilaboa you have... I don't know him exactly. I passed by and, of course, I saw no defect three months ago for that stretch in Vilaboa, which is very small, on the Portuguese Way. If there's a little ear, we did a quick intervention brigade, to act on every path where there's a little defect. And I'll ask, of course. But, man, we're talking about hundreds of miles and you tell me two concrete steps of a municipality. Well, you have to always go to the concrete. Well, let's try not to. One of the most proud values of us is that the streets of Santiago in Galicia are in very good condition and it's worth keeping them with the money of all the Greeks and Greeks. So let's assume that. Well, if you want to become a real trainer who has some defect, I thank you too. But in general, as a public representative, I think we have to talk in general about the well-preserved ways that are not quite the opposite. [[Applause]] The geodestiny's already told me in the budget appearance. Well, I -- I insist -- if you're able to agree with municipalities where you rule about where you want to be, we'd make a lot of progress, because this is a full place to make resolutions. If you want the Board to do an order and command and not make any consensus to change some geographic delimitations, even though that's not what your mayors and mayors ask us to do, ask us to dialogue and follow us, if you want to do an order and command; this is best what you would do; I will of course not do. Mr. Pérez López, I especially thank you for your tone. I recognize a smart posture, I think there's no other way, that the tourist data was very good. He says -- it's true -- that I didn't specifically talk about tourist business -- and he tells me perfectly that they had to close and that they didn't get to recovery anymore -- because my fault. I'm saying it because we had them very present and we tried to make them as few as possible. You're talking about there being no help until this year. It's not true. In October, the first rescue plan, Mr. Pérez López, was called, let's be a little serious. Of course, if you say no, it's not until the year 2021 that they haven't started to come up with direct help. In October I was summoned to the first plan, when it all split in January we had meetings with deputies and municipalities to try to make a joint plan. Hey, it couldn't be, there everyone, we didn't waste time, we called ours right away. Some municipalities -- also some of them governed by the BNG -- joined that division that said, that arrived at 2,500 in the case of the hostel, and we were pretty fast. We knew from the beginning -- because we sat with all those people -- that what they wanted was direct help, money -- to understand us -- in the vein, because they needed them, they had no income. Look, there are a lot of municipalities -- where I live, the county of Pontevedra, ruled by the BNG -- where there wasn't a single direct aid money, everything had to be investment aid, everything had to be pre-justification aid, which they needed, but they didn't need them as much as direct help. And they didn't want to give them, and they could give them perfectly. Therefore, I had liked him to have set the example of the Galician Council by arbitrating direct money in many municipalities in which you ruled and that they said no. And even when they went to ask the hosts' associations, they told them to talk to the board, that this is our business -- the Deputy of Pontevedra, that you cogoberan --. They said from the beginning that the hostallary crisis was a crisis of autonomous competition and therefore that they should be asked to do so. You rule in that parliament. Man! therefore, I think a little coherence and a little knowledge of what you told the lodgers that they didn't have a single euro and came to ask and knock at the doors of all administrations. We try to listen to them, 120 million euros distributed the four months of the calls on two occasions. So I think that at the end things are about to be seen, and yesterday we couldn't say that at the most difficult time all administrations responded to the same level. But we have to ask the lodgers. I know that, of course, not everyone was able to access all the help, you can never reach everyone when you make these calls, but we arrive to a lot of people, and a lot of people recognize it, things like they are. And I assure you most lodgers the political color of whoever gives them the money doesn't care what they wanted was the money. But they know at the end of the administration that told them that yes and the administration that told them to speak of others for competency roles, for basic laws of local regime, for people who couldn't work and who had no prospects. That's what happened, and therefore it's good not to forget it. And also tell me -- and I'm going to finish, Mr. President -- that doesn't match my good expectations. Well, I'm trying to be realistic. Also a little optimism is not bad, because optimism is contagious and therefore the tourist sector wants to see is the authorities convinced that this has to go best, and therefore doing everything possible to make it so. That's why I was talking about this Way Plan, which is going to have even more money than the many help we gave this year. And what do you want me to say? Well, I'm optimistic. I know that many structural changes have to be made, and I know that much more needs to be done following the pandemic, and that many things we were thinking about for future tourism are going to have to grow, and they're going to have to rethink, because the people who visit us are going to look for things that were not so much sought at first: everything that has to do with nature, with open spaces, non-massification, sustainable tourism. All of this has to be reformed quickly. That's why I wanted to talk about the efforts we're making as far as European funds are concerned and to continue to improve. You twist the figures a little bit, Mr. Pérez López. Tell me there were no pilgrims this year until June. That's what I know, that you couldn't even get out of the county itself, we were perimeterd, you remember. Man, tell me that the Xacobeo wasn't at all because the first six months the figures were very bad, but it's logical. The worrisome thing would be that when you can travel you would still be bad, but they're magnificent, they're extraordinary, far above the most optimistic forecasts. It means something would be done well. And also tell me, I'm telling you, it just kind of twists the data -- I'm telling you with all my cordiality -- to give you the outcome that suits you, and it talks about the tourist data of the first seven months of this year. Well, of course, if you put six months without tourism on a seven-eight account, of course, half knows what's right for you to get up here. But I ask you, because we're ending up, we're in the middle of November, we're talking about summer data -- which may be the simplest, though it wasn't so much when we didn't know what was going to happen -- but we're talking about the data of an extraordinary September, of October, like nobody thought, of a November that's not going to be bad, we just passed the bridge of All the Saints. I think all of this has to be put in, because in the end, if the figures are good, they're good for everyone, regardless of who's ruling. You also rule in many places and can do a lot of things for tourism. I agree that the good tourist figures are all of them. When we talk about administrations, we do it from all the administrations that were making an effort on tourism. But it's, of course, statistics, taking bad data to criticize, I think that's a little tricky, I'm sorry to tell you with all the cordiality. I'm done. Speaking of Santiago's Way, well, I told you. I know what you think, perhaps individually some that don't, sure, because I know BNG people who know and even have business related to Jacob who thinks that Jacob is a source of wealth, regardless of who manages it; you'll probably do it in general because of that idea that he's a government-identified brand that manages it. Therefore, say that Jacob is doing well and say that if things are doing well they don't like it. I hope that little by little they will change that conception and that, in the meantime, they will do everything they can. I have not heard you say anything about the absolute absence of specific appropriations for Xacobeo in the state budgets. There's not a euro, Mr. Pérez, there's no euro. So I hope, if you have that force, you agree that you should have them. We, of course, are going to do this and we will transfer to our parliamentary group in Madrid to ask for all that and to insist. I hope you're with us on that. What happens is that, since I haven't heard you say anything, I don't know if it's forgotten, if you think it's not worth it, if you think it doesn't matter what Barcelona says with names and names the amounts and we don't have anything after the promises. For the AVE of Santiago, 600 million, of whom we know nothing, Plan Xacobeo, tax benefits, nothing at all. So they're still in the process of amendments, you have a chance. And finally, I understand that, of course, it's logical that the Central Government doesn't give Galicia what Galicia owes it. But, of course, if you're arguing with them and don't say "yes, baboon" to everything they ask them, then of course, then what do they expect? That's what I understood. I guess that's not what he meant, because look, we're gonna keep defending Galicia, eh! If the Central Government is not right and gives us less than what we belong to, we will certainly not be silent. If you want us to calm down, it would be a bad practice, not just for tourism, but for Galicia in general. We won't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u11	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u12	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, the truth is I must explain fatally, but I repeat it again because it seems that I have explained badly. I repeat: the figures in Galicia of tourism in summer is a work of all administrations: of the municipalities, of the deputies, of the Union, of the Government of Spain and, above all, of the tourism sector and of the health professionals. Collective work, Mr. Rueda, collective work. But I've already said it, but you turn the tortilla around. [[Applause]] No, I said it, I said it. He also says that I don't want tourism to be consolidated. I wish tourism would be consolidated in Galicia, I wish it would be so. And then we don't defend Santiago's Way. But what time? Really, of course it's a good product, I said. It's a product that we have to put into value and I just said things that need to be improved, but it looks like you don't like things getting better. Well, if you have to improve, you have to get better, it's not all perfect, though it seems to you that it bothers you to tell him. And look, Government of Spain. From the Government of Spain you speak, you only speak of the Government of Spain in your speeches, on both occasions you spoke of the Government of Spain. Moreover, he spoke of the plans for tourist sustainability in destination. By the way, they actually had a meeting on Friday in Junta, in Fegamp, the ministry (the Ministry of Tourism State Secretariat), and it turns out that this meeting was really to discuss the subject, to address the topics of the projects of the Tourism Sustainability Plan, but no decision was made. And the ministry is issuing an indefinable motion for a resolution. What's wrong? That Junta wants to decide everywhere and it has to be the ministry at the end who says what to do. That is, the ministry gets 14.6 million, right, and the ministry calls for collaboration with the Galician Union and Galician Union. What does it do? Well, you prefer to confront, because what you do is to be in constant confrontation with the Government of Spain, in constant confrontation. And yes, the Government of Spain, indeed, has already put into the plan of tourism sustainability of the Navy EUR 1 million; Ourense, in thermal, 1,350,000; Santiago de Compostela's, 1 million; Ribeira Sacra, EUR 850,000; these two were last year. Yes, there's the Government of Spain. Moreover, you also spoke of the National Tourist Plan Xacobeo 2021-2022, which you did present here -- says no -- but if you introduced yourself, the minister came, and you didn't. I know you've had Board of Boards, but I think that, well, sometimes there's advice from the Boards and they go to some acts. But here comes the minister and not... yes, yes, yes, but well... and 121 million euros that is going to put for the Way of Santiago or the tourist plan Xacobeo 2021-2022. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in Galicia this state plan will leave an investment of 25 million. Moreover, the Ministry of Tourism will bring EUR 42 million in budgets from 2022 to Galicia. Stop saying he discriminates against Galicia, stop saying that. Not by repeating it again will be true. [[Applause]] And look, as you want figures, by 2020 Galicia received 735 million from the fund. That there they could rescue the inn, the nightlife, they could get help for it, but I don't know what they did with that money. 17 million of the Extraordinary Social Fund, 17 million for plans for extraordinary economic measures. In 2021 Galicia received 828 million from the Additional Fund and 234 million from the Business Support Fund. More than 1 billion and they keep saying that Galicia does not receive from the Government of Spain. But it's okay!, that they repeat it, but not because they repeat it -- I'm telling you again -- it's going to be true. Look, the other day when it was the debate in the state of Autonomy the president, Mr. Feijóo, said, "Oh!, it's just, please tell me something that does good to the Galician Union from the opposition." And now I ask you, Mr Vice-President, do you do something good for the Government of Spain?, do you do something good for the Government of Spain in tourism?, do you do something good? Because it's all wrong, the help is bad, the tourism is bad. The Government of Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, really does something good? Tell me, see if you can tell me at least one thing that the Government of Spain is doing well with the Council of Galicia, because they do nothing but say that it's all a disaster and that it even discriminates all the time in Galicia, when there are the figures of all the money being sent to Galicia from the Government of Spain. Well, what you really talk about the Government of Spain is you and your parliamentary group, who are in all committees talking only about the Government of Spain, which sometimes seems to be in the Congress of Deputies. Well, nothing else for me. I hope you will cooperate and stop being in the confrontation with the Government of Spain again and again, because of this crisis we have to go out together, Mr. Vice-President first. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u13	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u14	Mr. Wheel, I'm very optimistic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u15	Looks like the sound has fallen and they're waiting for you to get up. Yes, yes, the sound has fallen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what I was told, that the sound has fallen. No, I got him, and now he's gonna get up. [[Murmurs.]] We'll have to wait, they're things of life. Mine shouldn't have fallen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u16	Thank you, President. After this plague... look if I'm optimistic that I've even said it three times: I'm optimistic. I'm optimistic, but we also have to be realistic. I mean, it's clear that these summer numbers were good, it's something I insist on, and we all have to rejoice, because it's very positive for Galicia. But that doesn't take away that we also don't have to do a realistic analysis of what has been done since Galician Union until we reach these results and also about prospects. That's why we analyzed the eves that were in the action of the Galician Union, which for nine months did not articulate direct aids -- and I insist, I'll say it again -- that it was the hardest moments of the pandemic for this sector, and the Galician Union there did not respond. And then we also analyze the perspectives, that is, we need a reorientation of the tourist model. You've already advanced several of the points at which we also agreed, but there's also a need for a reorientation of the Jacobus, and there we do differ. We're not against Xacobeo or much less, it looks like a very good tourist product, and I think it's the sixth time I say it, and, of course, with you in front of it, I think it's the third or fourth, because it's always trying to fit the BNG into a position that's not real. And if you don't, you'll have to ask the spokesperson here at the PP, the spokesman in this tourism case, that when there's an initiative on Jacob's claiming money, whether it's the state, or it's positive for Galicia, the BNG always votes, always, in favour. Why? Because we are the only interest we have is the interests of Galicia, unique and exclusively. That's right, what we're going to have to look at is the eves that exist in this case in the tourism sector, and that I think we're doing it in a rather quiet way and also quite clear and even I think that at many points coincide with that of you. The difference is that we've been asking for that model change for years and had to come up with a pandemic for Junta to realize that that model change is necessary. I was also talking about this case in my data intervention and trying to confuse -- I understand --. It's certainly not my intention to confuse. When we talk about the data, what we are is, as I said, non-conformist and critical. Co-responsibility and responsibility make it necessary to perform a critical analysis of this data logically as well. Because to slap us in the back is worth anything, but to do a realistic analysis isn't worth any. And that's why I was referring in my first speech to the subject of self-criticism that I have so much missed and that I still miss. You were also talking about cheating data, Mr. Rueda. There's no data I've given in my first exposure that's cheating. You were talking about tourist demand and saying that Galicia was the second or third autonomous community, it occupied the ranking in relative terms, because in absolute terms it wasn't. He did recover before, but in absolute terms he didn't. And that's how you read the report just like I read it, which I'm sure of. And what does that mean in absolute terms, no? That Galicia is not within the autonomous communities that are the main destination; it's more, it's quite a distance. It's right after what works best, but it's pretty far away. And that I think is that they are associated with the tourist model that is so necessary is reformular. And that's why we've been critical from the BNG, too, but we're proactive, and we've been asking for that model reorientation for months, indicating where it should go, and even in these budgets we're presenting a special tourist plan Expande Galicia 2022-2030, which is focused on reforming, that is yes, the Xacobeo, but also reforming the tourism model, or at least starting to do so, which is something very necessary and is going to mark the future of the tourism sector in Galicia. Then I would also like you to explain to us better what happened with the tourist sustainability plans, because, of course, I understand that day 5 to June in the afternoon -- I think it was -- it was a press release in which it said that these new projects were already consensual, and on Monday the ministry says that at that meeting the definitive list of tourist plans was not approved; then, here someone or mind or what I think might happen, that we are here, you are still stranded, both the PSOE and the PP, in that absolutely sterile and party struggle. I think it's all about getting you a press release to mediaize these projects and to the ministry it seemed bad, as childish as that, I think that's it. And what's clear -- and there's really going to be BNG's support, of course -- is that those committed money for those plans, for those tourist sustainability plans have to come to Galicia; that's very clear. Another thing I would also like you to tell me is the criteria for distribution, because I do think it depends on Galician Union, and me, seeing the distributions of that division, because there are things that don't fit me; so I would appreciate it if you told me. And we go back to it again, that is, I think this whole situation comes from the lack of political weight that the Galician Union has and from that position of continually confronting the state, above all. I'm not saying you shouldn't confront the state, because of course if someone isn't helpful to the state or to the Council of Galicia is the BNG, of course. But what would be important in times of crisis is to create spaces of understanding. What you can't be doing is putting your finger in the opposite eye at a time of crisis like what we've been living this year since the beginning of the pandemic, in which it was so necessary a coordinated action -- and there I agree with you too -- of all administrations. But, look!, the BNG, when there was talk of that three-band action plan, with the Board, with the deputies and with the municipalities, immediately showed their support for that plan, and many municipalities would surely be willing to point to it, and it's also true that many BNG Town Councils entered that channel using the help-sharing channel from Galician Union, and you're also aware of it. So, I understand that you should try not to fit in, try not to be cashing in, followed by where we really are not. What you have is, really, to understand that our criticisms will always be constructive and what they're looking for is to improve, in this case, the tourism sector in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u18	That's our will, and let's hope you take it into account. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u19	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. And I'm sorry about the sound problems. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Verea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u20	Thank you, President. Indeed, I would like to say that by many of the messages we have sent from the People's Parliamentary Group on Collaboration and Cooperation, and that we want to continue to send, because the Central Government makes it very complicated. You were asked in your previous speech to the Galician Council to say something of a specific good thing that Pedro Sánchez had done for Greek tourism, when you, in two fifteen-minute shifts, were unable to move a single measure that helped the Greek tourism for the last two years. [[Applause]] Direct help. He also asked for more help on several occasions, more help when his party where you rule, in the Pontevedra Deputy, in the Vigo Town Hall, in the central government, because he has no direct help enabled; I explained it earlier; they activated the ICOs, activated the ERTEs and completely abandoned the direct aid block, and when they arrived, they arrived late and got bad, which was in the third plan. A third plan of what the data is. If we add the requests for the Greek rescue plans, 80,000 applications; if we see the requests that the economic sectors have requested at the central government's level, 5,000 applications. Half of the budget is still unmobilized by the impossibility of administrative requirements that are unable to correct despite the fact that we insist, that we send documentation, that we send reports and that these corrections were requested. It's a fact that to me it's revealing the central government's commitment to Greek tourism. The rescue plans of the Galician Union mobilized EUR 90 million for tourism professionals in Galicia, EUR 90 million. The third plan, the Central Government, is endowed with 230 million. Do you know how many of these 230 million are coming to the tourism professionals in Galicia? Well, it's not up to 1 million euros. EUR 90 million on the part of the rescue plans of the Galician Union and EUR 1 million on the way, as we see, because they are in contact with the tourism sector in Galicia. Not to mention the Xacobeo. Galicia is allocating 170 million euros specific to Xacobeo in Galicia and you were talking about 120 million of the national plan, but of these 120 million are for Galicia, because we don't know. It's not specified, there's no specific match and we don't know today what exactly the central government's going to Xacobeo is, we don't have any answers. We don't have these either in general budgets, because there is no specific match in budget 2021 and there is no specific match in budget 2022. There is no news of the expansion of tax reliefs, nor is there any information on the need for security bodies for a year, a Jacobean biennium. And best of all, another good example of what we live in as to the promises and the rains of millions of the central government, because it was two or three months ago in Santiago. President Pedro Sánchez and mayor of Santiago call, after more than fifteen years, the Royal Patroado, with the symbolic importance of the Royal Patroado for Santiago de Compostela, land five ministers and announce 280 million euros for the next ten years, an average of about 30 million euros a year. And the month and a half, at two months, what we found is that zero euros from this program announced for weeks, that we were all neighbors of Santiago watching, listening to and analyzing those projects that were associated with the Royal Patroado. So it's a real mistake to the city of Santiago and -- which is most irresponsible -- it's endangering the credibility of an institution as dear to all the neighbors of Santiago as the Royal Patroado. We have the good news, we have that data that the vice president has given us, and that they indicate that the tourism sector is prepared to face the year 2022, it is in better condition to reach this Jacobean biennium, he had the ability to absorb a great demand coming from a paralysis, and therefore we are convinced that, working as he is working, together, the year 2022 we will have historical data from tourism in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u21	Thank you, Mr Verea. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close to the appearance, Mr. Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u22	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Gallego, don't get angry. I don't know if what happened to the microphone has to do with how you rant here defending the Government of Spain, defending up to a point that is objective data, simply. [[Murmurs.]] So what is measurable is hardly opinable. I won't argue with you, I didn't. You are pushing very hard and insisting on me, as if I denied you something that is obvious, but I started my intervention, saying that the magnificent recovery of the tourist sector these last few months in Galicia has to do with the professionals first -- of course they are responsible! -- and then with all the others, each -- I say again -- in the sphere of their responsibility. And as we talked about, in addition to helping, what each gave because that's quite easy to measure. Just as it's easy to measure enthusiasm, as much as it proclaims itself. You tell me how I can accuse them of not enjoying Santiago's Way -- it seems to me that you said -- like an exceptional tourist product. So what do the pilgrims in Vigo do in Vigo, who continue to lose and who have to go to the hostel places to know where they go, because in Vigo, the municipal term, the Way of Santiago is absolutely erased by a personal effort that is already red, at last, things that are hard to describe? How can you say Vigo that you are delighted with Jacob when it is forbidden to the most elemental, which is that it is marked so that pilgrims cannot be lost. But what are you telling me, Mrs. Gallego? Don't you realize that while these things happen, it's very difficult for someone to believe them and that really, in the face of that inexplicable circumstance, if you can say that Jacobo likes the least? Tell me, too -- and Mr Verea told you -- if the Government of Spain does anything right in the matter of tourism. Hey! So when you help us, yes. We said that it seemed very good to us that we had made a plan, and I told him at the sectoral conference, both to the minister and to the secretary of state, they won't deny it, that if we didn't agree; we believe that, seeing the distribution parameters, Galicia in tourism had to correspond more, but, of course, by agitating and giving it forward, we said for good these quantities, because we were told that, if not, they would not come, and that's why we voted in favour, and, of course, the discussions started from there. You said a sentence -- which I suppose will appear later in the Journal of Sessions -- : that it must be the ministry that says what to do; well, that's the end of the story. If this works like this, if governance consists of that, is that it has to be the Government, how do you intend to think about how you have to invest the tourist funds in Galicia, if it has to be the Government, the owner of the money that gave Europe to them, who are masters and lords, and therefore distribute as they want and are the ones who have to say what to do? So what do we think? Answering what Mr. Pérez López asked: What happened since last Friday? Well, a good question, I'd like to know. We've been evaluating projects presented by the municipalities for months, talking among technicians, adjusting scores, exchanging criteria and looks, and at the end of the day -- we've got to close this, to start running them -- to a meeting to evaluate apt-not fit. According to Mrs. Gallego, we have no right to say that we want the first axis of the three that will be in the Next Generation funds to refer to the coast. No, no, that's what the ministry says, which is what it has to say what to do. Well, I disagree. We said fit on the coast. So the plans of municipalities that have coastline are going to value them; that's what we did; minimum 70 to pass the cut, apt-not fit. Look, Vigo's plan had an evaluation by the Board of Galicia of 63, by the Ministry of 62; the plan of the Crown had an assessment by the Board of Galicia of 68, by the Ministry of 64. So, not fit, they didn't go 70. Just like others. I don't know what's bothering you: two parliamentary plans; I might be responsible for the future of the Socialist Party in Galicia and some members of the parliamentary group. If not, these reactions are not explained, this defense you made saying how dare we discuss opinions? I insist: we have been puzzled by a state secretariat that takes off with a note on Monday saying that, indeed, what Mrs. Gallego has announced to us here, which we have already intuited by seeing some reaction to the party at the end of the week, that some little one must have been there, and the Secretary of State of Tourism is going out on Monday saying that the ratings don't mean anything and that a plan has no minimum score and is declared unfit or does not fit in the tourist strategy of an autonomous community when they talk about governance, in that, the last word they're going to have. It's that, perhaps, there's some surprise, is that, perhaps, there's something that was objectively valued, some plan, and therefore deserved to be given forward, but it won't be able to be or, at least, there's that uncertainty -- what do you think?-- when, in addition, we talk about short deadlines to run. The Ministry itself told us that we had to go quickly in these evaluations and that the goal was to move forward. Well, now it's all in question. Ask yourself about the economic allocations. I have no idea. Immediately after declaring suitable or inadequate plans, the Ministry told us that we proposed amounts of economic allocation for those suitable plans or for those suitable plans. Of course, if I meet later on Monday, with which they tell us that everything that has been valued, we'll see what the opinion of the masters and lords of European money, which is the central government -- it seems to be -- you'll tell me, a mess. I'd like to know what happened, too. I suppose there is some pressure, which I hope the Secretary of State of Tourism will not give up, to which I hope the Ministry will not give up, and which is maintained in those evaluations aimed at and carried out by technicians and joint positions. And the day they get together and the Galician Union says that, hey!, we've come, from an objective point of view, after a long-time and a lot of work analysis -- and a respect for the professionals who valued these agreements to start running -- it turns out there's nothing like that. Well, we'll see that this is all over, so I'd like to know. Suddenly, I'm telling you, minimum, 70. The highest scores -- even those in the board more than those in the state -- do not reach the score, but everything is in question. Let's see what's left of all this. I'd like to know too. And, Mr. Pérez López, I thank you -- as I did in the first intervention -- especially your tone. True, the data you said -- I'm sorry I came back on this -- were not false, but, of course, if you tell me yes, that the data was good, but if we took the data from the first six months, because it wasn't good -- of course, I know, but there was no tourism in the first few months. I'm just telling you that if you take this data and tell them, you'll see that the percentage is much lower. Well, they're true, but it's a little tricky to take them out to make a balance. I just mean that. I think we generally agree that there is an assessment, and that there is not only the root of the pandemic, but that we had it before. You come to the documentation of the Board, which I, for a year now, have assumed these powers, have been able to examine it, and we were already talking about many of the things of which we are now going to talk a lot more and more intensively. Now we're all going around, but before the Galician Board was probably this success in so few months -- probably, no, sure -- where we're going to go, of course, and if we're going to have the BNG collaboration, I really appreciate it. So, ladies, let's keep working. The data I think they're good, we all agree, and the figures are good. We are third parties in tourism recovery, in absolute terms and relative terms, and we are a small autonomous community, compared with much larger ones and much more tourist tradition and, above all, with international tourism. So, if we're going to absolute terms, which I think we have to consider, these are good data. We don't need to twist any reality to see that this year Galicia, from a tourist point of view, has been very good to you, especially in view of the prospects and the wishes that were there at the beginning of the year. And that's where I'm going. Expectations are good too. I want to consolidate that 25% of better figures on the national average; I think it's possible. Maybe not a very large amount, but, of course, they're above the national average in tourist recovery. That'll be a very good sign. You'll have to continue with the help, there are exits. Every million euros in direct aid, the more they needed -- I insist, Mr. Pérez López -- they've been summoned since last year, they haven't been all this year. There was a plan in the last quarter of last year, and a plan immediately in January of the year in which we are. There'll be 200 million in total between rescue plans and another type of aid and 160 million from Xacobeo between 2021 and 2022. All of this is to have intelligence to apply it well, plus what comes from the Next Generation funds, if it is that, in the end, they will give us, that I hope so. We're talking about a sector that's 10% of our GDP and more than 10% -- 11 or 12% -- of our employment figures, so it's good for tourism and there's a lot of good things going on in Galicia. So, I think, after these hard months for many professionals, they deserve to be all right. We're going to keep working, and if you offer us your collaboration, of course, they'll have ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u23	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to the second item on the agenda, motions. motion by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Complaints Zas, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the Italian cultural sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u24	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u25	To make this motion you have the floor to Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u26	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. They will allow me to begin this intervention, which seeks to place the culture of Galicia in the centrality of the debate of this plenary, by publicly sharing here my congratulations and, of course, those of the parliamentary group of BNG, the journalist and writer Jesus Fraga, who has just received the award of the so-called National Narrative Prize for his latest novel Virtues and Mysteries, in which we can contrast what is the necessary reconstruction of the world of emigration that accompanies us, in this case London, and also through the characters that usually have less voice, as are the female characters. [[Applause]] In connection with this motion, we want to defend our proposal in a positive way, and, of course, maintain the spirit as a motion, and for this we are going to step up the contents of the previous plenary session, taking back some of the threads of the intervention of the Education, Culture and University Councillor, following our inquiry on which is the cultural strategy adapted, of course, to the current economic environment to accompany the Greek cultural sectors on the necessary path of cultural recovery and reactivation. So let's go with the first thread, always keeping the words of the counselor. He said what hasn't changed was the commitment of this government to support culture, our creators and the whole of cultural industries. Well, we would recommend to Mr. Counsellor -- of course, with all the collaboration of his office, because he will not have time for this -- that he read in a full, comprehensive, with greater attention, the last Barometer of the Greek culture, which he also mentioned here, to avoid concealing the assessment of that commitment to which the Counsellor referred, because, for the third time, after year and half of the pandemic, the Greek Government again suspends, and does not seem quite peculiar to the councillor to profit here from having received a suspension, even if he went up a few tenths. [[Applause]] The second thread of what I wanted to draw is the words of the counselor: "We act with two perspectives: one oriented to put in place direct aid to companies and professionals, and another to encourage, promote and keep cultural activity alive." Well, once again referring to this Barometer of the Galaga Culture Observatory, it is concluded that, in fact, offering credit to companies or what is the diversity of the Greek cultural ecosystem, which had hardly overcome all the weaknesses, all the precariousness that had been inherited from the previous crisis, was not really a successful measure and a measure to assume and boast about. However, not to offer help in the maintenance of artistic and creative structures -- and here we have to make special mention of musicals and, above all, the scenarios -- although it has brought with it a negative burden, a very high negative consequence for these sectors. This certainly has to do with what the Barometer recognizes, which says, "The greatest destruction of employment, which continues, continues to take place among performing arts companies." Let's go now with the third thread, very briefly. The counselor said culture was one of the safest activities that have been carried out. Indeed, culture is safe by itself; it has always been and will always be. But what was also well assured, what was certain, is that it was annulled, retracted, limited, conditioned in excess, compared to other types of socialization spaces that have always had headlines and a well expanded hemerotheque, but where culture was always excluded, protecting it, therefore, and contributing to the breakdown of the usual public loyalty and also to the construction -- which is always indispensable -- of attracting new audiences; ultimately violating that right of access to culture that for BNG is decisive. [[Applause]] The fourth thread of what we wanted to draw is the advice given by the councillor: "We encourage companies and self-employed people, we help maintain professional culture, we channel funding oriented to professionals, to productive activity." Well, at the BNG we wondered when this pandemic the virus removed from the People's Party's hard drive the basic cultural activity, which is a fundamental substrate of our culture. Where was that network of amateur culture, of associative culture that capillaries the transmission of culture in society without limits, without complex and cross-sectional form, namely that of our traditional culture, the transmission of song, music and traditional dance? When you think, from the PP, activate this vaccine? The fifth thread is the one in which the advisor assured, even on two occasions: "We had positive results in applied cultural policy. I think that in the end we were well oriented and there were positive results." I understand you recognize that only, in the end, as he well says, have been oriented. So we conclude that it is implicitly recognized that something was previously disoriented. Positive results? I wish! I really wish! But we ask ourselves, what are the evidence? Beyond personal or cabinet impressions, what are the objective, empirical evidence that we can support? Here the Counsellor, of course, spoke of what he could speak, of the Plan of Cultural and Tourist Reactivation; at least he mentioned it. We insist again: where is the objective assessment? What's the contrast? Where is the assessment of the investment of public money? We'll have to settle in view of the absence of all kinds of objective reports and analyses, with that skill of plinth that Mr. Counsellor shows with that crystal ball that there must be in San Caetano. A plan, by the way, which, in the paper, announced 10.2 million for culture -- the rest we know is always tourism and, in fact, leading the lead -- and in this intervention Mr. Rodríguez went up, putting it on the table -- he said -- 26 million. You'd have to know what kind of game this is where you're playing in that accounts move with this speed, and in that stick won, because, really, reports better what you sing are the forty. By the way, with regard to this plan of reactivation of culture, I leave here a little call to the Group of the People's Party so that they may, please, share it with the advisor, since he is not in this plenary today. It was a long-awaited measure, even agreed from the audiovisual sector, which said -- commitment, not only -- "calling a minority international co-production fund in the audiovisual field that facilitates the presence of Galician companies in international projects of relevance." I insist, remind them of what this is, because the audiovisual sector knows absolutely nothing, and it's a long-held measure. [[Applause]] You also spoke the advisor -- of course, like not? -- of the Cultural Project Fund -- still in the second edition. Let us ask again: To what extent -- because we understand that the first one, if there was a renewal, would be evaluated -- has helped to permeate sustainability in the cultural sectors?, to what extent has it helped to consolidate existing structures or to create new structures, to contribute and to ensure quality employment? We, of course, add that if we did, if we contrast this fund with the cultural sectors, and we hear sad but also painful answers. They were fine, as a first measure of urgency, when we had absolutely nothing, but it remained as the only option to manage misery. And we're done with the last thread. "The budgets of 2022 go in the same line," said the adviser, and so did he in Commission 3rd of budgets. I mean, it's like acknowledging that nothing has happened here and, therefore, nothing has to be done. Or we can also start to fear what's going to happen in the light of your first words, when you say what you're going to do is a cultural policy of absolutely decentralized programming, which absolutely supports rural people. Given the visa and the already contrasting experience of which is the link and the relation to the rural part of the People's Party, if, too, this is going to enter culture, we really worry and make ourselves shake, and very seriously. Of course, it's not to charge, on our part, answers, or much less, but, in contrast to the full trust we have in the Greek cultural sectors, we bring a decade of proposals that you know in this motion, in the hope that they will say yes, that they will vote -- with capitals -- to the future of the Greek and Greek culture. And yes, we still have to be stubborn about this binomy, Greek culture and Greek culture, and I'm just going to say it with two examples. [[Applause]] The first, the present Bono Culture, which comes late, of course, in an absolutely improvised way, but in whose summons there is no single mention that with that bond it will be primary, prioritized, positively strengthened the Greek culture. [[Applause]] So, I don't want to imagine what we're going to pay for listening to all the Greeks and the Greeks these two months in November and December with this cultural bond -- we'll see it later, of course; we're sure that we're going to be given an evaluation -- probably nothing close to much or almost nothing to the Greek culture. And secondly, I also believe that something needs to be nuanced, because perhaps with those three million euros that the General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy invested in the Jacobean Cultural Projects Fund, they already intend to justify the current elimination for the 2022 budget of three million of the linguistic policies that will be implemented next year. [[Applause]] To finish, especially so that the advisor doesn't remain concerned, thinking that I do a sad vision -- as he said in his interpellation -- we propose, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, this decade of positive actions so that the culture of Greece, of course, progresses, to help it progress and goes further, according to the capabilities it demonstrates day by day and that it has even demonstrated in full pandemic. These are ten proposals that combine economic, structural, developmental actions that are still pending under the Statute of autonomy, of course consensual with sectors, with international projection for our culture, paying attention to the entire chain of social and economic value of the Greek culture and, of course, yes, the epicenter of our identity, to show both those people we build the Greek people and, of course, all those who visit us with the cock of the Xacobeo. You now have the opportunity to vote on this motion, which wants to be committed to a living culture, without complex or prejudice, and with all pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u28	Good morning. Thank you, President. We also want to add to the congratulations to Jesus Fraga and to the congratulations to all the winners of the prizes of Greek culture 2021, which have already been made public. This motion, the result of the appeal to the councillor in the past full, became an extract from the electoral program of the Nationalist Block of Wales -- a decalogue called it --. Today it also seems like it was a second interpellation, because you asked the counselor a lot of questions. Well, it's reasonable for you to defend your own, but, of course -- respecting the vision that you can have in the management of cultural policies -- we cannot take or accept some assertions that we hear in your interventions usually in this legislation and other past legislation. And today you said "a culture voided, retracted, unprotected." It's not like that. Now it turns out that the Galician Nationalist Block is the "yes" party. You tell me I'm the "yes" party and they've always been the "no" party. I think you're still the "no" party. And today, with the adjectives that they said about culture and cultural policies that the People's Party has, because they seem to follow the same line. It's a conclusion -- I insist -- that we draw from the interventions and accusations that often make us, that are not at all justified by the facts that are later demonstrated over time and by certain policies that are being carried out. They think you have the hexemony of culture in Galicia; they always believe it, and it's not, because culture manifests itself in many ways, in many places, and it's all welcome. Look, I'd like to remember a sentence from Alfonso Zulueta de Haz's speech -- already deceased -- on account of his admission to the Institute of Vigese Studies in 2007, which was president of the Galician Council of Culture, the Galaxia Editorial and who was a member of the penzola and founder of Athens. He said in his speech, "Cultural is not an ornament, but an impressive power," and he noticed how much he had changed the concept of culture that "is far from being an elite..." -- he said -- "...belonging to society, since it covers everything: customs, ideas, beliefs." And that spirit is what the People's Party has always put into practice in its cultures; certainly, that support, that vaccine that says you need, that vaccine that has always been on the part of the People's Party and supporting all kinds of culture. That spirit is what we always defend with cultural policies and which expressed here also the counselor himself in the past, not from an exclusive or sectarian point of view. And I can say this because it's sometimes checked when you rule in other administrations. So that's demonstrated -- I insist -- in the cultural policy that you practice where you rule. For the Block there has always been a culture of first and second, there has always been a good culture and a bad culture. For us everything is respectable and everything is admired by this group and by this government of the People's Party, and always, in addition, by making and proving that they are not only speeches, but by working on it. Because it was made a strategy of culture without impositions or doctrines; it was based on a shared, transparent process, which favored the participation of cultural professionals and cultural industries, basic institutions and entities and associations. They all took part in writing this culture strategy to find out where we have to go to Galicia. And they don't find us in a speech and in a selective management or that they want to exclude, that they want to criticize some kind of culture or some kind of cultural policy that is everybody's, and for everyone, because -- I insist -- you in those speeches don't realize they're always excluding; they're not integrating, they're excluding. And it should not be so strange to the Galician Union and it should not be so strange to the Councillory of Culture when we went to the first autonomous community to put in place a reactivation plan to recover the cultural activity that later was copied into the rest of the autonomous communities. And neither should we be so rare in the People's Party and this Galician Union when the last Barometer of the Galician Culture Council also says that the Union is the best-valued administration by Galician cultural sector against the Government of Spain or the municipalities. So it will be that the management of cultural policies -- then we can have deep discussions about the concept that each one of us has of what it can mean -- of this People's Party and the Galician Union work with dialogue directed to all areas, adapting and understanding the needs of professionals as we are going to know the evolution of the pandemic, and not only the evolution of the pandemic, but also the evolution of the times. Because cultural demonstrations now in these times, with technology and all the changes, also evolve, but always considering something that has never failed the People's Party, which is the basic culture, which, Mrs. Complaints, you look at here that we don't listen to you, when we've always been paying attention to the basic culture. And so that they don't affect, in addition, the lack of budget, because they often affect the lack of budget, they know that the Reactivation Plan has more than 26 million euros reinforced at the beginning of this 2021. And it also served to stimulate professional cultural activity, and it allowed to put in place a plural, decentralized cultural programming, throughout the territory of Galicia -- yes, decentralized throughout the territory of Greece, because it is necessary --. And it was precisely the permanent dialogue that enabled you to understand the situation at every moment, to make the best decisions, according to demands and needs, with a positive impact. I insist, you can always get better. Here, in this gallery, counsellors do self-criticism many times too, and you can always get better. But of course what you do is improve. [[Murmurs.]] You've already presented the budgets, you'll know that in 2022 they grow to the field of culture by 6% -- they grow -- and therefore, in addition to running the Strategy of Greek Culture, this will allow you to continue to support the dissemination of culture in rural areas -- yes, the diffusion of culture in rural areas, I don't know why you're strange -- and to continue working on internationalization. Also, of course, it's perfectly compatible and can be done with cultural policies from the Galician Union, without distinctions and adapting to reality. And I will remember, in addition, some data -- which has already been reminded by the adviser in the interpellation --, fruit of the Reactivation Plan: a summer with more than 3,000 activities distributed throughout Galicia, in a summer, in addition, complicated, with a situation that no one had expected to be able to go out further, that was the pandemic; more than 1,000 actions linked to the Cultural Project Fund of Xacobeo, 600 linked to the Culture Program on the Way; 200 functions on the Galician Network of Theatres and Auditoriums; 13 music festivals under the label of Fest Galicia; about 100 bands concerts that travel 6,000 kilometers across Galicia; some 600 cultural and outreach proposals in museums and libraries; 72 functions of Propulca Dance+Patrimonio, etc. So culture is alive, culture is asking for support, culture is asking for politics, too, so it can be promoted -- as you say -- and internationalized as well. And now I'd like to highlight some of the points of the motion -- within the time I can have -- that they need a more detailed explanation. For example, ask the Central Government to reduce the cultural VAT. It has already agreed on a GNP in October 2020, both for cultural VE and for tourism VE. The Central Government must implement that decision. If you want to listen to the GNP that was approved in this Parliament, you ask your Madrid partners, because at the moment, nothing. And don't make excuses, as it happened, for example, to the masks, that they told us it was Brussels that it didn't let them down the EVI and then they had no choice but to do it. And on the Next Generation, the Council of Galicia has already done its homework, has already presented its proposals and its projects. The Government of Spain now will also have to be fair to the distribution, let's hope it is, because sometimes it also makes decisions we don't know on what basis. You ask to reformulate the Xacobeo. This is the last point of the motion -- well, I didn't think so much, because you've been showing up the vice president first -- but, of course, what do you mean by reformular? You, at first, denied it. Now they say that you have to have opportunities for everything, that you have to serve as a boost and a stimulus to cultural production... and what are we doing? First, they passed from Jacob and absolutely denied it; now they are asking for reformulation. I mean, they've always been "the ones of the no," but when things work, they add up, and now they want to hang up the sambenith of the "yes," but they're still "the ones of the no." And with respect to the Law of Cultural Background, you know there's cultural strategy. As I say, the legislative needs are included; one of them was the Law of Museums, and it has already been approved in this legislation. So he's taking his step by step. They're talking about developing a social activation campaign, and here we're talking about Galician cultural bond compared to other cultural bonds. I want to refer here to the unconditional bond of Galicia, because there is a cultural bond of a left-wing government that has conditions, which limits who, ages, can use that bond, what kind of culture you can consume... so don't tell me here that, in this case, your speech with, later, your decisions, because that cultural bond of left-wing governments limits consumption according to ages and according to what type of culture. So they're not hiding anymore. More than 518 companies joined the Greek cultural bond. Of course it was a success. It had an budget of 1.9 million euros to 39,000. So, with the cultural bond that makes left-wing policies you can see your philosophy -- or deep philosophy -- that there's a good culture and a bad culture and a culture for a kind of people or not and some money for a certain age and another one not. I mean, it's a totally partisan bond, and it's a shame to introduce it in those terms. On the subject of 1%, I have to say, like the electric tariff and the Basque coupon, that are requests that the Nationalist Block Galego always puts on the table, but that they don't solve the problems or mean anything in the context in which we find ourselves. In the context in which we are found, it means nothing that you are insisting permanently at 1%, knowing that you are far from real resource management. So we also ask for responsibility for the public accounts. The amendment we present contains points that have worked so far. And I say it -- we also said it, and my partner said it in the intervention of the counselor -- also with data; so they support the sector in all its disciplines, they're ambitious, they export Greek culture into the Greek language, and so I think -- as I say -- there is objective data that culture budgets also grow. So that's a positive fact. And if it's true that we have to be optimistic, with a vision and strategic planning, with new legislative frameworks and new support programs, such as Audiovisual Java. You here put the audiovisual in the picket, and it's also a point and a sector that is being supported directly from the Galician Union and which will serve to accelerate the development and ensure the stability of that sector; claimed precisely by themselves, of course. I want to end up as the counselor did, recognizing the greatness of the Greek cultural sector, the greatness of the entire Greek cultural sector, exemplary and with a lot of talent and personality, because -- as I say -- there is no culture of first or second, better or worse, here this government of the People's Party -- and this Union of Galicia --, as it has always done, supports culture in any of its circumstances...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u30	So, in this case, we present the amendment -- we believe it's realistic and it's perfectly feasible -- so that we can support it and approve it all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u32	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We also want to add to those congratulations to Jesus Fraga. With him he wins, but also wins our culture, of course. [[Applause]] Regarding this motion which today presents the Galego Nationalist Block, which responds to an appeal to the councillor, it is funny because he really explained that one year ago he had already seen himself in the same situation, not only with BNG, but with us, with this parliamentary group, which we brought to this Parliament -- and also with the other opposition group -- to this plenary, several non-law proposals in the same sense. And the truth is, we were very surprised by the calmness of the counsellor -- therefore, the tranquillity of the German Government -- in this matter after the opposition had to come, he had to come back here, one more year, again, twelve months later, to deal with the same issues. The reality is that when we talk about culture in this Parliament, it seems that we live in a constant déja vu. It also seems that the left Galician and the right Galician we live in very different worlds because we do not share at all the vision that Mrs. Egerique has just exposed here. Of course, having to come again to ask for permanent dialogue tables with cultural agents, to fulfil mandates of the Statute of Self-Government, for example, with the Law of the Cultural Fund, to develop campaigns to promote the creation and production of the Greek culture, to claim a manifest and real concern -- manifest and real!-- by the book sector, an intense and real work also in the internationalization of our culture or reformulate Jacobeo is -- believe me -- because what is claimed today was what was claimed a year ago, actually. Question of pure logic: reaches this full again because none of this has materialized. We also want to begin by approaching data from this year's third July culture barometer, which developed the Galaga Culture Council Observatory -- which was known, as I say, in July-- which reveals a trend of recovery -- and it's true -- of the cultural sector, with 66% of the companies with normal activity; a situation of which, of course, we are glad. But, of course, what happens to the remaining 34%? Or what happens also -- it's already said here -- for example, with the performing arts sector, the most damaged yet? Because, despite the signs of recovery, we also have to go to the negative data. Those are the ones we have to fix. A negative fact, for example, is that the billing of companies this first half of the year is still very much affected by the pandemic, and that 75.7% of the companies surveyed for the Barometer continue to bill less than in 2019. And a third of them, almost a third, 27 %, reported losses of more than 50 % over that year. By the way, Mrs. Egerique, the Barometer also says that the Board suspends its assessment. It'll be better, but it's also you who have the skills. Merger suspends that rating on that barometer. More information for the reflection of the Barometer -- which has to do with, in addition, with this motion presented by the BNG, in particular in point 2-, for example, is that 30% of the companies in the Greek cultural sector have optimistic expectations, only 30%, with regard to the possible benefit that the cultural sector can derive from the future distribution of European funds which will be devoted to economic recovery. And in view of this, and without attempting to demagogy, we have already made progress that, despite the signs of recovery, we see that much of the sector remains in a very precarious situation. The counsellor, in each of his speeches here, in the plenary, and in the budgets -- that is, in each of his speeches -- speaks of Jacob, talks of figures, talks of invested money and talks of programmed functions. Everything, everything -- he says -- to reactivate cultural action, not knowing that reactivation is never achieved with an important injection of funds if it is not accompanied by a medium and long-term strategy. Short pracism is never reactive, short pracism is not reactive. And we're talking about short-sightedness and we want to bring something here, although we've already spoken on the part of the two previous speakers, because, of course, we didn't want to leave this intervention without talking about the so-called "cultural good", something that the counselor also brought here the debate fifteen days ago. By the way, we were surprised at the pride that he was talking about that cultural bond. We say surprising because encouraging the consumption of culture is, logically, necessary, of course yes, and we have nothing to object to. But, of course, don't try to convince us that what they passed a month ago is something "strategic" -- in textual words from the advisor himself -- something strategic that aims to encourage that consumption in order to reactivate it. Actually, that Bono Culture is nothing more than a Christmas discount, which is what it is, for cultural products, of all kinds, has already said it here too, the voice of the Galician Nationalist Block, for consumption of culture of all kinds. We don't know what that control is going to be, what we need, about these cultural products, or whether there's going to be a report telling us that all that money has been invested in. But it's just that these consumer vouchers, which are just a discount, a voucher of consumption, have already put them in motion throughout the pandemic -- and not now at the end, when we're already recovering -- the councils from all over our territory, across Galicia, from the beginning, to consume in local trade, to consume culture and for a lot more; throughout the pandemic, and also, by the way, for that, for the consumption of culture. That bond -- don't be fooled -- is a timely measure that, as I say, we don't argue at all, but they don't confuse themselves with their goal. Your real goal is to achieve a greater execution of the Council's budget, nothing more. By the way, a execution that was 25% in the second half of the year. Of course, all of a sudden, I invest four million and I peak again to get out of the sleeve so quickly to consume all kinds of culture -- which is what you'll understand by culture -- we're worried about. That is, we're talking about a short-sighted, absolutely short-sighted measure that will have little impact on our country's creators and creators, although it will actually help save Christmas. But, of course, already the counselor himself, in balancing... please, can I continue? [[Murmurs.]] Already the counselor himself, in balancing culture, structured his speech into two key axes. We are grateful that the spokeswoman, Mrs. Complaints, was able to extract several threads from the counsellor's speech; we were only able to do it with two. He structured his speech, as I say, in two keys to this government: in that badly-known cultural bond and then also in a decentralized programming policy. In fact, it is unfortunate that we are concerned, the other day it was precisely reflected in the policy of the Greek Government in the field of culture: a concatenation of conjunctural and non-supported aids in the time it has to be added to a report of programmed cultural acts that do not obey any strategy, because it did not speak of the book sector, nor did it speak of dance, audio-visual, stage arts, or basic culture, or video-game, or of libraries and archives. He hasn't talked at all about any of this, forgetting that culture is much more than a series of scheduled performances. We, in essence, speaking of this motion -- I've also had a chance to speak to the BNG spokesman -- in our parliamentary group we show our support, as it could not be otherwise, for most of the motion. We have to make manifests, yes, our doubts about this decrease in VAT, which you figure at 4%, which, if it may well be an important measure for the recovery of the sector and to encourage consumption, we think that, for consistency, it would be appropriate to wait for the report of the Committee of Experts on Tax Reform, which is currently working in the Ministry of Business, which, of course, is also a cross-sectional working group in which the Ministry of Culture is also working, in which the Ministry of Culture is present, among other things, because we also have no clear that it has to be that 4%, for example. It could be less, it could be more, or we could establish different types depending on economic activity, as is already done in most countries of Europe. The most logical thing, from our point of view, would be to defend the amendment of the European directive so that there is a specific and reduced type of cultural VIE for all cultural services and activities throughout the EU. But we repeat, in essence, that we agree with this motion: increasing the budget in culture, own space in the Next Generation funds, a framework of continuous dialogue with the culture sector, which is something essential and so far non-existent out of time contacts, etc. I'm not going to repeat your motion here. If we want, however, here to call upon that there must be greater concern also for libraries and archives, which are great ones forgotten by this Greek government, which are permanently subject to budgetary suffocation, they can no longer; that is a great example of doing less with more. And I'm done just by remembering that culture is a right, it's true, and it has to be guaranteed, but it's also a resource, one of the spots of economic growth. And that's why it deserves all our attention; not only ours, all of us, all of us. And, of course, it also deserves some rulers who are up to it and look at it as a whole, with a strategy that covers the current short-pracism, which is going to be -- I fear -- which guides this government in what remains of mandate. And being able to be, too, in view of its amendment, that the lords and ladies of the Government, in this case supported by the People's Party, try not to lie to themselves and themselves so that we can actually jump into a culture where it deserves it. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the motion's own group, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u34	Congratulations, President. In fact, you did not answer the counsellor to the appeal of the previous plenary, nor did you now answer Mrs. Egerique to the terms of this motion. And if they don't respond to what these proposals are in favour of BNG, it will for some reason be. Of course, you'll know, and you'll have to answer for this, too. You can keep looking to the other side, but we, from the BNG, will keep looking forward always and looking in the eyes of the Greek cultural sectors, he didn't have the slightest doubt, and we'll bring him here as often as necessary. You very slightly say that I affirm falsehoods, but at no time has proved it; at no time has it proved, then which are those facts which I false. Not at all, and you'll know why, too. And, of course, I also convinced her to continue reading Alfonso de Zulueta, a person of relevance to Greek culture, especially when he does these appreciations, indeed, that Greek culture is not a mere ornament. Because I'm sure you'll change your cultural policy, PP's cultural policy, which has become a souvenir shop, a process of continuous spectacularization. The Galician Union and the Culture Council are already confused with a company of events, a cultural association or a party commission. Of course, they do everything but what corresponds to them as the backbone of culture. [[Applause]] His exposure, evidently full of numbers, as it has been customary, almost reminded me of a little like a state of sublimation. And I'll explain. I'll explain. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u36	Yes, a state of sublimation, and I'll explain, of course. Not because it responds to the sublime condition, which is perhaps what we can think of if we look at the Royal Galaga Academy Dictionary -- which is being visited by the People's Party lords these days -- but because it looks a lot like that physical sublimation process -- that is, from a solid state to a gaseous state, without passing through the liquid. [[Murmurs.]] That is, we speak, we speak, we speak, but nothing remains, it leaves no footprint. And I ask you, please, to start thinking, when the People's Party is not ruling, which is going to be your footprint in Greek culture, what will be the trail they leave after so many years of government. And indeed, our clear proposals are positive, of course they are proposed to vote if you believe in the importance of Greek culture, as Mrs Egerique said in the end. Words must pass to works. Because, you see, some data on politics are only obvious, and it is not that this honourable Member says so, that they are constantly living it and suffering from the different cultural sectors. That policy of not against Greek culture, moreover, made in Greek, for example, was held in that twelve years later they were unable to present a plan of dynamization of reading; in that twelve years later they were not able to make a Welsh law of performing arts -- hyperpromised--; in that twelve later they completely ignored the social and economic potential of the video games sector; in that twelve years later, there is indeed no policy of internationalization of Greek culture; in that twelve years later we continue without an integral plan of dance; or in that twelve years later our researchers in cultural heritage continue to pick up the suitcase and market in this country. Portugal is very pleased to welcome them and welcome them for their high education in cultural heritage research. Because nine years later you're still not developing the Galician Library Law, which you mentioned, or because seven years later you're still not developing the Galician Board's Archives Plan, so necessary and so demanding and provided for in Galician Archives and Documents Law, that you've also drafted and approved. We can actually talk about a lot of figures, but of all the figures we're talking about, I just think of a verse from the Vigilante poet Maria do Carme Kruckenberg: "For so long, of so long, I don't know where it was so much of nothing." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. I understand you don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u38	No, I don't accept the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u39	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the informational transparency of the health situation of residential care centres for older persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u40	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u41	Thank you, President. In my first speech in this Parliament I spoke about the older people who live in residences. It was after the first wave of the pandemic, to propose an investigation commission on what happened in residences, among many other proposals. Since the same day, we have perceived that the People's Party has shown discomfort on this subject and has vetoed a study or commission of inquiry about what happened in residences. But we keep insisting. The People's Party now wants to devert the subject by appealing to what is a subject of which it no longer proceeds to speak, by playing a role in minimizing the subject in terms of ways or matters that mark themselves from power or the media itself. When I took the first steps in this Parliament, I quickly sensed that most of the issues we are discussing here are marked by the present and, of course, it is inevitable on some matters, especially on a point-of-the-art basis, on points. But older people, however, see their rights violated. If I were to comply with the regulations, whether it's current or not, it would be a mistake for me that I wouldn't forgive myself for letting myself be led by the desire, in a matter transcendental to Galicia, whether it's in the media focus or not. It would be a mistake to give up one of the most just causes in Galicia, one of the country's most aging autonomous communities; it would be a mistake in the autonomous community that bears the sad record of being the second with fewer inspectors to monitor and supervise the total of residential care centers, which, of course, are excessively privatized and, for the most reason, have to be supervised. It would be a mistake, given that already in 2018 the Board of Auditors warned that something was wrong in the homes of older people in Galicia, and the German Government decided to close its eyes and do nothing. It would be a mistake, given that the German Government is one of the least-invested people potentially dependent on the whole country. It would be a mistake for our part to surrender, given what happened in the pandemic, which warned us of something very important: that we look at what we were doing with the care of the older people in our country and also with the dependents. It would be an error to surrender to the censorship of data, to which the Government of Greece wishes to submit to us by answering late or directly unanswered. Let them be clear on one point: while the families of older people have the strength to fight for a new model of care at the height of the 21st century and according to the possibilities and population we have in Galicia, we will give them a voice, one, two, four, twenty-fifty times, which are necessary for the Greek Government to come into account. [[Applause]] The full past, the counselor began by saying that ours was "an attempt to revive artificial controversy," textually. We think that the only artificial are robots, who want to supplement the affection and care of assistants with older people in Galician residences, instead of giving more human resources that provide quality care in their own staff, in optimal working conditions, that allow them to do their work so that they feel self-realized and personally, in time to care calmly for each user, for each resident, with wages and conditions that make the value of the great professionals that we have in the care sector in Galicia, with professional rates that allow them to do their work without interrupting the vital cycles of residents. Because the Greeks and the Greeks have to know that here in Galicia have happened and there are issues that cannot be allowed, which violate their own regulations, but also the very well-being directly of the residents, of the older people, because the assistants themselves, the residents themselves themselves, have warned on numerous occasions that they had to raise the older people at six o'clock in the morning or that they had to give them the scene at seven o'clock in the afternoon. And why? For not having a job relief, a relief from a companion who supplies that shortage of staff we have in the Greek residences. That's really important. Those are the issues we have to deal with here. Because it's no good for Mrs. Counselor or Mr. Feijóo to come up here and talk about the wonderful professionals we have and then they don't receive them or listen to their demands. But what most of the attention was that the councillor, the highest social policy representative of the Greek Government, dares to say in the Galician Parliament, without blinking, who has already given the data of contagion and deaths by each residential centre. I was wondering the BNG companion, Mrs. Rodil, if she'd already found the data on Google, and the truth is she was telling me -- with disbelief, logically -- that I didn't. We don't have that data, they didn't provide that data. The Counsellor knows she hasn't brought them in, and yet here, in front of all the Greeks, she says yes. It is tremendously surprising, but we are not surprised at anything, above all, after the coldness shown by the German Government after being able to mix data from the centres of people with disabilities to reduce percent of cases towards citizenship. We are not surprised at that modus operandi, but the veto of the People's Party to the commission of inquiry about what happened in residences leads us to conclude that the German Government does not want to transfer information about what is happening in residences and what happened in residences. Why aren't you comfortable in this debate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Why, every time we want to talk about this issue, about senior residences, the Greek Government is trying to shut us up by accusing us of trying to "relive false artificial polemics" -- literally, in the mouth of the advisor himself. Is it artificial controversy that tried to open the Board of Auditors with its demolition report on senior residences in Galicia? Is it artificial controversy the demand of society itself for a debate about the new model of care in Galicia and the residential model we need? Is it artificial controversy the report of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Galicia that warns you of the lack of resources in senior residences? We understand you don't. The advisor thinks she knows, on the other hand, what concerns her own families. The other day, in the full past, in the interpellation, he told us that what really worried the families was that they no longer had the restrictions before. Well, of course, it would only be missing! But they suffered many restrictions for not following the proposals that not only we, as a parliamentary group, did, but did the Galician Society of Hieria and Gerontology itself, warning that it was necessary to make an evacuation of all the positives of residences. And even today, when there's a contagion, it doesn't evacuate the infected person to a hospital or an intermediate center where he can pass the disease and thus prevent not only from the contagion to his mates, but also to save the harsh restrictions that the majors have suffered in residences. Do you want to know what really worries the residents' families and their own residents? Well, they know they're claiming once again that an investigation commission is done, that there's a study on what happened in the residences in Galicia. They also demand more resources for residences, because to look after people, they need people, not robots. It's about humanizing, not robotizing. They talk to the protagonists, to the protagonists, to the older people, they consult about their decisions, which will directly affect their care. It's time to empower older people, listen to them, and share them -- why not? -- of the decisions on the new care model we want for the next few years in Galicia. One day we'll come -- hopefully -- all of us and all of us, and I'm sure we'd all like to know what decisions we're going to make about the new model of care we want. For all this, we ask for a detailed study on what happened in the homes of older people during the pandemic. It's about justice. If everything was done well, take as a reference what happened and, if it wasn't done well, we learned from the mistakes to correct it. It also refers Parliament to the level of occupation of integrated residences, consistent with our proposal. When there's a contagion, we have to use the integrated residences, which not only serves to give headlines, but to the end for what they were born. Third, to make public the total number of contagions per covid or compatible symptomatology, as well as deaths in residences; and all that broken down by every center of residential care in Greek in a real way. She didn't give up. Let the Social Policy Council present to Parliament the new residential model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u43	...in detail -- finished, president. And increasing human resources in the area of residential care in Galicia, as well as reviewing and improving the working conditions of the sector. Also increase the personnel of the dependency rating teams to speed up the waiting lists. That you don't have to wait more than 400 days and, above all, that you send a person over 100 kilometers from your place of origin...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u45	We listen more to older people, as we would like them to listen to us. They practice active listening and rule with empathy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u46	Lots of bitches, Mrs. Marina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u47	...because they will optimize the results, and empower the older people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u48	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u49	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Go ahead and we will support this motion presented by the Socialist Party today. I wanted to focus on a central element that we understand is what vertebrae, which is that darkness or opacity with which the Greek Government acts in access, or by denying the right of access, public information to the whole society of this country. I'm going to put two examples to make it palpable or more visible yet that attitude, that obscurantism, that opacity and that permanent veto to the right of access to public information. And I'm going to underline, to begin with, that element of public information, because, when you deny this House, Members and Members, the groups, but in general, the legislative power of this country and the media, the right to know the number of figures, the number of people who died in senior residences, who were disaggregated by centres, which is what is required, that they be disaggregated by centres and, in addition, try to justify themselves by appealing to the law of transparency, both state and Galicia, saying that there is confidential information that involves third parties, the first thing you're doing is saying that when individualizedly provided throughout the pandemic these data and if they were day-to-day giving information to how many people who died were produced among users of residential centres, Galicia's board was violating their own law, and it's not true. Because -- and this has already solved it, in addition to the people's valet -- at the thread of a request made by journalists from a media in this country, the valet itself acknowledged that this data is public information, not private. So, the constant negative of the People's Party that we know today, already closed, let's say, the numbers, the numbers of people killed, broken down by residential centers, is uniquely and exclusively responding to an interest in protecting and parapetting the interests of a very specific company, with names and surnames, which is DomusVi, which is the one that concentrates, as everybody knows, the vast majority of private and privatized squares in our country. And this is not minute sin, or something irrelevant, an anecdote, because it vetoes and steals from the exercise of a fundamental right the whole of the citizenship of this country, which is to know and to know what the outcome of the pandemic is in the number of people killed in each of the residential centers that exist in our country. Why do I say you're trying to protect DomusVi? Because the only thing we could know, not because we referred to parliamentary groups, but to the media, namely the Public Square, the digital newspaper, is the number of people who died in the residential centers of autonomous public ownership, and what they let us see is that the vast majority of people who died in our country in centers of autonomous public ownership took place in privatized centers and, in addition, managed or in the hands of the DomusVi group. I insist that there is a question here that is denying fundamental rights to Galician citizenship in order to protect and parapet the interests of a private company, which is DomusVi, because that data broken down by centres is public information to which a Member, parliamentary groups and, in general, the Parliament of Galicia must have access. But it's not the only case, it's not the only case, and that also shows that there's a constant practice here, which is not exclusive to the Social Policy Council either, because I'm sure that in all areas of the Government they act in the same way. That veto, that darkness, that opacity, and that refusal to exercise a fundamental right, such as that of access to public information, we also see it, for example, in the composition of that Sociosanitary Advisory Committee, of what the Galician Union boasts over and over again. I particularly in this case, because I lead this area, but the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, already a few months ago, requested, in addition to the thread of a social policy adviser's appearance in which it was appealed that this new residential model was based on varied documentation, reports and deep "reflections" in that Sociosanitary Advisory Committee, I say: who is there? What are those reports and those documents that the Galician Parliament does not know? Well, on the basis of Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, which facilitates -- or should, that it then does not work, but well, it should facilitate access to documentation in order to do our control and control work to the Government of Galicia, we ask for something as revolutionary, like, hear, give us the list, the list of the names of persons and entities that form part of that Social Security Advisory Committee that is created outside the Galician Social Services Act, which says that these debates have to be held within the Galician Welfare Council. They decided to create this body -- I insist, aside from the Social Services Act -- and the board's answer is: Come back tomorrow. There's nothing to do here. Keep moving. We cannot refer to the list of people who are sitting in that body created by the Galician Board to decide what the new residential model is going to be in this country, nor can we be provided with any reports, nor can we be provided with any documentation either. And, of course, one asks: who and what about documentation, data, analysis and shared reflections is decided what the model of residence is going to be like from now on and from now on in this country? Who's deciding? In an organism that flies who? Why are organs created parallel to those provided for in the current legislation? In order for the Galician Union to take great care of who can sit and who can't debate it in this country about the new model of care, to steer the debate. And the most important thing we've been reporting from the BNG since the first day: so that it seems to change something, but follow everything completely the same, and not to put your hand on the real problem that exists in this country, which is that the right to a decent old age has become a succulent business for a handful of businesses: who is deciding?, who has a voice?, who has a vote? And what documentation is working on? [[Applause]] And this is not something that we denounce here, only in the House, the BNG and the opposition groups, is that the entities that are represented in that Galego Council of Wellness, which, I insist, is the one provided in Galicia's Social Services Act to debate, to reflect, to participate and to decide on public policies in social policies, above all, in terms of social welfare and care, have been waiting for three years -- first, before the pandemic -- three years waiting to be able to create a working group to debate about the system of dependency in our country, and they have been waiting since April 2021 for the Board of Galicia to call a plenary in which it can talk about something as unforeseeable as what happened in the larger residences during the pandemic of coward 19 in our country. It's not only that you act in a shady manner and that you see the right to know and know about the legislative power nothing more and nothing less, but that you also prevent the exercise of that right in consultative bodies, I insist, provided for in Galicia's Social Services Act of 2008. Nothing but nothing else, nothing more or nothing else! This is not something that is little known and public, it's a complaint made, among other entities, by the Labour Union in recent days. Of course, then we came here to hear interpellations that sometimes one doesn't know if you're in a sort of Mr. Philosophy Book. Wonderful or in the typical word or phrase that you can find behind a sugar pot in any bar. If you don't want or hear about the fact that you need to change the personal ratios that directly serves people in the senior residences, that we're with a regulation that's 1996 -- that's an order, that's not even a decree; I don't say it's a law anymore, it's not a decree, it's an order of more than twenty years ago -- or what are the working conditions in which assistants, nurses and staff who care for older people in the homes of older people in our country. Yesterday, or just two days ago, the workers were again complaining of the violation of rights, the failure to comply with the collective agreement and the employer's refusal -- which is funded and on occasion with public funds -- to ensure the fulfilment of their rights. And what the truth tells us is that this isn't ballad. They're not baladi the conditions in which the residents' workers are found, nor is they the management model, and therefore the title and management of their own residences, because the pandemic data speak a lot for themselves. Most of the centers of autonomous ownership are direct management; the centers of autonomous ownership. They represent a tiny percentage in the Greek system of care, but most of those who are owned by the Union are directly managed. And that proportion is not kept in the number of deaths. The only data we know is how many people died with coward-19 in Galicia in public residences, and what we're told with the data from the Galician Union is that more than half of those people died in homes of larger people managed by DomusVi, which is not even minimally proportional to what this company represents -- I insist -- in the set of centers of autonomous public ownership. This is closely linked to the living conditions that users have and to the care that these people receive in their senior residences. It's not a matter that says only the BNG, day the Constance Council, and we won't be tired of repeating the complaint he was making a few years ago by the Board of Auditors. And, by the way, I mean, just a few weeks ago, we reported here the incident in the Arenal Residency of the Crown with that judicial process, which, in any case, will correspond to the judicial power, but which places that absence of a 24-hour nurse in a public residence, of autonomous, privatized title. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u51	What does it mean that there isn't -- finished -- a nurse 24 hours in a nursing home? Well it means if your father is, your mother is, or we're any of us there, if he gets bad at night or is alone, he's served by an assistant who's exhausted. And that's not decent, it's not worthy, it's not human. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u53	...not much less legal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u54	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u55	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, President. With all the comfort of what I am capable of in this debate, I will try, before entering its background, to reach at least a certain degree of prior understanding. Look, I want to assume that the two people who accompanied me in the use of the word came here loyally and have the deep conviction that they want to do the best for the health of our elders. And I would be grateful if I had this generosity that I had with those two spokesmen, with those two spokesmen, with this group, because I think it's good to do demagogy and see if it's clear that you don't want your parents or your grandparents any more than I want mine or than the members of this group want yours. They're the same ones! [[Applause]] They're ours, uh, they're ours! And, said this, I would like to make three reflections: one about the things you want to talk about, another about the things you don't want to hear about, and another about the things that, modestly, I think we should talk about. Look, they insist on bringing up the debate a question about which they already have an answer or are already in the process of solving, and they insist on doing so always with a negative bias, trying to manipulate reality simply because reality is not useful for the interests of their parties. They're asking for a study. Two studies are already being done on what happened in residences: one of the University of Santiago de Compostela, of the public university, requested by the Government of Galicia, and another, which should be being done by the Government of Spain, the request of the Congress of Deputies. Do you distrust the University of Galicia or the Government of Spain? I'd like to know. The disaggregated data of the residences has already been made public... yes, they were made during the pandemic, because it was a matter of public utility. And now you just want that data properly systematized. They're entitled to them, they're already told that if they're going to make it easier for them once the legal proceedings have been completed. It's already said. Why do they insist that we go through procedures that know they're due? The Councillor has already announced the presentation of the new model of residences in the Galician Parliament. By the way, a model that includes a review of staff needs. Question: did any other autonomous community present it?, did any other organism advance more than the Galician Union in the presentation of this model? And, of course, he's already kept in touch with families and workers, sometimes with agreements and sometimes not, but contacts are already maintained. But, look, I think it's very significant their commitment to reiterating these fictitious debates, and it's still more significant their fear of obviating the data they already know and believe three questions: they believe that in Galicia things have been done better than in most autonomous communities, that the Greek residences have worked better than in most autonomous communities and that in Galicia they have avoided more deaths than in most autonomous communities. The best things have been done, and I have to mention some issues that I think are known to everyone: the car-capped system, the sample analysis pooling system, the implementation of protocols, the creation of an effective and effective expert committee, the pioneering creation of integrated residences, then copied by the rest of communities and even internationally, and the vaccination of residences in a record time, now also facing the third dose. And this, in the face of a government of the state that must be recognized that it failed in the system of epidemiological alarm, that failed in centralizing the purchase of materials, that it created a phantom committee... Home!, I think it's fair to acknowledge some of the merits of Galicia and its government. There are comparative data that believe that the Greek residences worked better than in most communities. I have this graph here. It's data from the Government of Spain. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a chart.]] This is the average death rate that occurred in the Spanish residences. This is Galicia, the second community with a lower ratio of deaths by residents. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago marks a part of the graph with his finger.]] [[Mr. Pazos Couñago marks with his finger the other part of the graph.]] I don't think it's a minor matter, gentlemen. In the same way that I don't think it's a minor issue that we've known recently from the reports of the death monitoring system, the monitoring system of the Government of Spain, which says that while in some communities we have suffered up to eight periods of excess mortality, in Galicia and Cantabria we have suffered only one: "Cantabria and Galicia communities with the lowest excess mortality". And you say, no, it's data. No, it's not data, it's statistics, it's true, but it's statistics on lost lives and saved lives. And it must be said that Galicia was the community that most deaths avoided in residences; or, if they prefer, that most lives saved. And you say, don't brag. Let's not assume! But, man!, we shall have the right to feel reasonably proud of the work of the Committee of Experts, reasonably proud of the work done by the workers of the public residences, of the work done by the workers and the workers of the private residences, of the health care workers, of the vaccination professionals, to whom we have certainly given them the Golden Medal of Galicia and, why not, of the management that this government has made. Or do we have to be ashamed of saving more lives than most self-government? Not because the others didn't want it, I'm sure everyone was willing to do it, just because Galicia did better. And it's time for the opposition to make an effort to recognize an objective fact: in Galicia things have become better, and it's a merit of all. That's a credit to everyone! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a look at the issues we should really focus on now: how we continue to improve social health services, health care, education, employment, because I think we can improve from the basis of reality. Can we talk about residence management? Of course we can talk, Mrs. Rodil! But, man, you'll have to do it with some consistency. You're talking about the percentage of the residences of the Greek Government that are managed. The residences of the Lugo Deputies are 100 %; they are privatized 100 %. The new secretary-general of the German Socialists, who is the president of the Crown Parliament, has just announced that three new residences will be opened in the Crown, and the three with a privatized management system. It's just that we have to be serious if we want them to take us seriously. We can talk about the inspection service, of course. It needs to be improved. But if we have an agreement reached a few weeks ago in the Reactivation Commission! Man!, what happens is that what we can't ignore is what was said about the inspection service, that he was beating his nails. The workers, the civil servants of the Galician Union, were accused of dealing with residences to circumvent their obligations. And yet we haven't heard a single word from the BNG's voicer or the PSOE's voicer defending the moral integrity of the workers of the Galician Union, of public officials. I ask them to do it here today, I ask them to do it, and they don't let a new chance pass. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We can talk about improving the ratio of public residences and public squares. Man, yes! But it would also help you to unlock, for example, the construction of a public residence in the city of Ourense. We can talk about a lot of things, but we can be serious. I'm really asking you, Mrs. Otero -- with all the affection I have for you -- but it's the second time you do the "chistecino" -- allow me -- of the robots. And they've already explained, first, that robots are not to replace anyone, that they are to collaborate and make the work of residential workers easier. And secondly, that joke that you do has aroused the interest of the Government of Spain -- of its government -- which has called the Council of Galicia to be interested in a project that makes it very interesting. I think we need to talk a little bit more... well, because nothing, you'd be answering the phone when they called and you don't know what they called. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But the counsellor told her in a public appearance in this Parliament! We'll be serious, please. Let's get serious! It's just that, really, I think we have to talk about how to improve real Galicia, that Galicia that doesn't fit in that unfair stereotype of deep Galicia, right? which has so much to talk about recently and which I remember a lot -- I have to say -- but a lot, what we've been listening to in this Parliament for the past 12 years. Look, we, the members of the People's Party, know why we were so disturbed by that unfortunate mention of "deep Galicia"; because we maintain that Galicia is not so, that Galicia's reality is that of a modern Galicia, which is improving every day, that it has better and better services and so on. What I don't understand is why it bothers you if, in the end, you pick up the feeling of your permanent demonstrations over the past 12 years, which tell us about a backward Galicia, a Galicia without services, a Galicia where there is no future. Why are you angry if that's exactly what you've been selling for the past 12 years? Look, this government and this parliamentary group will continue to focus on improving real Galicia, that Galicia of which we are very proud. Meanwhile, others focus on their eternal internal problems, and there you are! You'll know what they're doing. And others gather in moderate conclaves, right? Because I told Mrs. Rodil... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u56	Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u57	Yes, I'm sorry, it's just that the previous BNG appearance said there couldn't be a whisper while I intervened; and, I don't know, I was surprised that I didn't practice it now. Yes, I have to say it, I have to say it because these are the ones who want to build the moderation suit, the new suit we need, as Mrs. Rodil recently told us. I have to tell you that I believe that the Greeks and the Greeks are grown-ups, they've been adults for a long time, knowing what they want to wear, without the need for them to wear their clothes in the morning, neither Mom Pontón nor Dad Caballero. They don't need it, they know how to dress themselves, and they know perfectly well what they want to wear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u59	So you keep this left ready-to-wear that what you want to do is that Galicia suits the suit that they want to do. We're going to keep working on building, manufacturing, making that suit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u60	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u61	...to make the Greeks and the Greeks feel more comfortable every day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u62	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u63	They've been looking pretty for 12 years now. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u64	For the author group of the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u65	Thank you, President. I don't know why you're angry about that, when it would have to be a debate that is necessary and where we would have to have consensus among all parties for a common and just cause, sir -- in this case -- representative of the People's Party. Look, he's talking about deep Galicia. Deep Galicia is the one that is requesting residences in the people, near their people, there, at the place of origin of the older people; not distant macroresidencies of the extraradiation, as they are encouraging since the Galician Union and how they have requested, for example, in Petín, Valdeorras, that they want a public residence in their own people and the People's Party censored it and vetoed it in their own commission by voting not to that residence. So the facts are the ones that mark politics, not words. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] He literally says the People's Party representative that "things have been done better in Galicia." And why don't they bring the data, see if it's true?, why don't they bring the data? If they did better, for more reason come here as the German Government, bring the data and learn from the good that things have been done. But if the data is not provided, it means they want to hide something. What do you want to hide in this case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? And by the way, one question that I'm complaining about is that you're often offended when, as in this case, the People's Party representative says you're "our elders." They're neither our elders nor their elders. They don't belong to anyone, they have their own autonomy, they want them to be heard, they want their voice to be empowered, they want us to listen to them from the Galician Parliament. And that's why we're here, to give them a voice as often as it may be necessary; one, two, three, four or fifty times, even if they're upset, ladies of the People's Party, that we betray this subject, which is fair to us. [[Applause]] Mr. Rodil of the Sociosanitary Committee, which we also ask for in all regulatory ways, and also know who conforms it and what its work is; that work which says that there is, but which does not contribute. And we didn't get an answer, just like we didn't get death data for each center. Let's talk straight, ladies and gentlemen. This is about, and it's called censorship; they're violating the right we have as citizens' representatives to know information that citizenship itself is demanding. They're vetoing the right to information from the citizen himself here in Galicia, and this has to know the people of Greece. Look, ladies and gentlemen, what can't happen is that, at a transcendental moment like what we're living, in the midst of a reconstruction, let's be one of the oldest communities and that less invests per resident potentially dependent, and that Galicia governs without listening. It can't be that they govern without empathy, it can't be that they govern without taking part the very protagonists of the decisions they're going to make for them. Because "Copito," the joke --chiste is what the Galician board is doing with older people in senior homes -- will never supply the human heat of a professional, a professional, an assistant -- in this case -- of senior residences. Because technology can be of great help, but it never costs staff. Of course, it's good to bet on technology, but never without the staff, which is what they're doing since the German Government. We've been dragging a problem from before the pandemic on the model of care we offer to older people. The Board of Auditors itself or the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Galicia warned him before and after the pandemic, and since the German Government they answered proudly, without heeding any. The competitions are here before, during and after the pandemic, and we must not wait for them to come from outside to do the work that we have to do here. Because the waiting times for a residence are not worthy, more than 400 days, and, above all, at best, they send us more than 100 kilometers from our place of origin, protecting us not only our relationships with our neighbours, with our friends, but also with our families, which in many cases are older people who cannot travel to visit their family. We do not want any more distant residences in the extra-radio, we want them in the center of the people, such as the case I mentioned about Petin, to which they voted against, lords of the People's Party. Is that the model you want for the next few years in Galicia? We want to accommodate the neighbors in a more familiar environment, the most like a home, respecting their privacy, with individual rooms and in a more human context, with more personal and better conditions, which is what the sector is demanding. Waiting for the German Government to understand one day that this must be a central theme, we will continue to debate and propose improvements to the necessary new residential care model and to the new care model one, two or fifty times -- as I said earlier -- by the older people of today, but also by the older people of the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u66	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the policy of the Galician Union in the management of the water cycle
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u67	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u68	Thank you, President. I was listening carefully to the debates. And I think I'm going to make a proposal, I don't know if it's at the table or at the cafeteria, because with these problems now of supplies I think you should make a big application for the People's Party, because after what happened on Sunday I think you'll have to increase the dose, which are very altered and very nervous. [[Applause]] They don't see the need for canvas. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think something more than tila already. [[Laughter]] Well, as was clear all this time, the BNG, which is the main party in the opposition, brings to this plenary a motion that has a main objective: to put a stop to the policy of confrontation, taxation and opposition of the Galician Union. That's why we bring constructive and positive proposals to develop a new water policy. The first proposal we bring is not from the BNG, it is a proposal from the Fegamp, which is to request the withdrawal of the draft law from the water cycle to a very reasonable thing, which is to open a process of dialogue, participation and agreement on this essential issue, which should be the subject of a large country agreement, as we have already told the advisor. Of course there has to be a new law. No one questions this question. But a new law must be made on premises and solid foundations; among them, to make the planning that is already provided for in the law: the Greek Sanitation Plan and the Greek Supply Plan, which has not yet been done since 2010, when the Water Law was approved. That's a fundamental premise. In fact, they're doing it now, they're starting to do it now, they're in the first phase, that the yellow sanitation plan has a run-in period of year and a half. I mean, I would be doing the first phase, which is the diagnosis, at the end of 2022. Secondly, the second premise is to develop and approve the Local Water Pact, which was announced to bomb and dish in 2013, and has spent eight years and is still being complied with and without approval. And that was also the subject of unanimous agreements here for us to have a reference tariff structure, which is one of the great debates precisely what we were in, and also an agreement on the criteria that public investments must deal with in this matter, which is also an absolutely logical and fundamental issue. But in addition to the imposition and unilateralism with which the Union acts, as we have seen these weeks, the most serious thing for us is not this, the most serious is the absolute disloyalty with which the Government of the Union acts, in addition to falsehoods and traps, manipulating and filtering information from technical meetings with the Fegamp that you manipulate and falsify. Look, I'm going to tell you what the Fegamp technicians think, who are outraged -- literally -- by the overthrow of the meeting of technicians that took place on October 20, which was filtered yesterday by the board. And this was no agreement between institutions, it was a meeting of technicians exclusively, and they're outraged by the lack of loyalty of the Board by filtering false data. And this is extremely serious. It can't be done. You're upset that we say you think Galicia is small, because this is thinking Galicia is small, the short stream, the trap... that's what Galicia's thinking is small. To act like this, a Government of the Union with false filtrations in the press, to twist, to confuse, to distort public debate is very serious, is the most serious of all. [[Applause]] As it is serious -- as the Fegamp said -- that the preliminary draft did not have an economic-financial memory, which is a fundamental issue that must have a preliminary draft of law to make clear, precisely, who will assume the highest costs that will bring this preliminary draft, which can make the municipal ark slam. Or don't say anything -- it's also said to Fegamp -- for example, about neighboring water communities, which supply, nothing more and nothing less than 650,000 people in Galicia. The second proposal we have brought here is not the BNG either, it is also the Fegamp, which proposed the extension of the deadlines provided for in the Supply Guarantees Act of 2019, which entered into force in January 2020, which provides for very fast, very short deadlines for audits and plans and corresponding investments. It also seems to us that it's a logical and reasonable matter, and I imagine that when you in the circular economy strategy set the 2030 deadline to achieve those objectives. So let's agree because they have bicephaly on the board, because one thing is what Environment says and another is what Galician Waters say, which used to be together and are now separated. So they shouldn't talk to each other, because they don't say the same thing to each other. The third proposal, also very important: transparency and participation. Transparency and participation is, for example, to send Parliament as we have repeatedly asked for the documents. For example, the public project documents on water investments, which you presented to this call from the Next Generation, of which we have only five lines. That's absolutely not logical or reasonable or defensive. You are set up in darkness and the occult. So send that documentation, as well as the Galicia-Costa Hydrological Plan, for the new period and the evaluation of the previous one, of course, because, if not, we don't have the information needed to do that analysis. Fourth proposal: radical change in the paradigm of water policy -- we've already talked about this -- a capitalized water policy for the 21st century: the new water culture, the solutions based on nature, green infrastructures against that almost unique bet by grey infrastructures, and the protection of resources. Fifth proposal: compliance with the 2006 Law for the Protection, Conservation and Improvement of the Yellow Rivers, which is an advanced standard, and that's why you put it in a drawer and systematically failed it. Specifically, we ask that the second transitional provision be complied with, which called for a system for Galicia to participate in the management of those watersheds that are not of its competence. But you don't care. This is also what it means to think little Galicia. That's this: a Galician that consists of a third of the country, where the main rivers of the country are not. That's what Galicia thinks in a little way. [[Applause]] And finally, we have to assume the failure of the environmental policies and the Junta water cycle in the period 2009-2021; twelve years that make water everywhere. You suspect millions of investments, you assume that more than a billion euros have been invested in these policies, but the data are there, and the situation is alarming. Look, data from the Galician rivers, 2021:1,648 poured. There's more than last year. It's just that you don't go forward, you still go back; every year is worse. And the most polluted laughs are nothing more and nothing less than that of Arousa and that of Muros and Noia, who also have more polluting spills than last year. And not to mention the EDAR situation, which you blame the municipalities, but I am also responsible for the construction of the board, its financing, the technology they use and the malfunction. So we're faced with a serious problem that everyone recognises. And what is the attitude of Joine? Well, I'll blame the Town Councils and put your duties on the Town Councils. That's not the solution. The solution, in any case, will be to analyze the problem as a whole, search for agreements through negotiation and dialogue, and starting with the Fegamp, the municipalities and the Deputies, also with the water communities, with the consumer people, and end with the imposition, with the confrontation, with the opposition, which is their line of work. You are the government, you can't be half the time, instead of acting as a government, opposing the central government and the municipalities, the Fegamp, the deputies. They must make great agreements; great agreements with a new policy of water thought with ambition and great, which is how we want to think things about BNG. So we propose, for example, a Welsh water strategy for 2030, or a Plan Galicia of 10,000 rivers, or the Plan laughs to address with twelve great performances a great improvement in the transformation and recovery of the rivers of Galicia. In any case, -- already to finish -- I'll tell you that it's better for a ready-to-wear Galician who is a low cost Galician People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u69	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Water is the configurator element of life, because without it there is no life, to the point that we ourselves are constituted on average by 65% of water; so we could easily assert that we are water. In Galicia we know a lot of water -- or we know it better -- and to prove it there's nothing more than visiting any of the thousands of mills characteristic of this country, that someone has called out of the "ten thousand rivers"; rivers attacked to satiety before the passing of the Government of Galicia's PP, which in the matter of water, pollution, supply and purification prefers, as in everything else, that the problems are resolved alone or never fixed. And rather treat our nature not as part of ourselves, a constituent part, integral part of ourselves, but as a resource to exploit and deprecate, considering that rivers are a kind of conduits by which water circulates in place of pipes, a sort of water channeling, and not really what they are: ecosystems of very high ecological value, in addition to our cultural heritage and, in short, our collective identity. Not to mention our rivers, which are going to stop everything that is not being dealt with or unraveled in Galicia, which is very much, when 20 years have passed since the entry into force of the European Union's Framework Water Directive. A good day arrives at Junta and starts talking about the "Water Sougama", and then he's willing to step up with this draft law that was qualified as "legislative engineer" by the Pontevedra Deputy, to put just one example of the criticisms he's receiving, to which we joined, as could not be less, for multiple reasons I'll have the opportunity to briefly expose. But it seems important to me first to state that as we are a relatively water-rich community, we are not less in need of that common sense of water or water, which in the state is already sounding more than a couple of decades in that new conception, which has been called "new water culture", in a country that is as a whole dryer than us, but that faces like us the huge common challenge that is climate change. A challenge that exacerbates problems that were already there, such as the waste of water, the transportation and sanitation networks that lose much of the water that flows through them, or an intensive water farming in places that do not have enough water resources to support this type of agriculture and that call for transvasions because they think there is another place where water remains. By the way, the fact that there is water that is missing in a place and that remains in others is proper to an absolutely uncanny, surpassed vision and a lack of knowledge of what ecological processes are, because water never remains. If we remove the water from a place that is adapted to a certain level of growth or even flooding, the only thing we will achieve will produce serious environmental effects on that territory. That's why we need a new water culture throughout the state and also in Galicia to overcome this engineering vision of the water processes in which it militates to the right of this country and you, too, and to move on to an integral understanding and treatment of a topic as vital as water. The new water culture goes by managing demand instead of supply, by considering the ecological effects of any hydrological action, by distinguishing between water necessary to live, which must be free; human consumption water, but not necessary to live, which must be recorded by its cost; luxury water, which must be overgrazed, and business, which must be subject to higher tax treatment than human consumption water. The project's explanatory statement says that a good management of the infrastructures that enables them to be provided with quality and efficiency needs a technical and economic capacity from which most of the Greek municipalities are lacking. "Currently in Galicia..." -- says -- "...deficiencies are observed both in infrastructures and in the technical and economic organization of municipal services." What the draft does not say is that the Water Framework Directive dates from the year 2000 and that in these twenty-one years, of which the PP has ruled seventeen in Galicia, the Board has received large amounts of European funds to do what is to be recognised in the explanatory statement that has not been made. There is no more to look at the situation of our rivers and rivers, which is closely associated with the problem of purification and treatment in the municipalities, to see that the Union is not concerned with the management of the water cycle in Galicia, and it is contained, as in so many other things, that it appears to do something, when, according to Galicia's most recent data on the balance of the year 2020, where there has been the biggest fall in GDP since the Spanish Civil War -- which should theoretically imply a significant decrease in the level of pollution -- the situation of our waters has not improved; on the contrary, it has worsened. According to the Galician Waters, twenty-one new points of dumping have been detected in the rivers, a total of 1,596, which aggravates a situation of itself very negative, which completely questions the effectiveness of the Board's spill control plan. The black dots were only reduced by four, going from 253 to 249, which implies a failure of the policy of sanitization of our rivers, which is increased year by year the contaminant burden they bear. And today there is in Galicia, according to information from the Galician Waters, thirteen marine areas classified as C, of which you cannot therefore extract seafood for their marketing due to their high degree of contamination. And according to the preliminary draft explanatory statement, it also says that there is an incomplete recovery of costs, which is not sub-sanitable by the mere increase in tariffs, but that it is necessary to extend the taxable bases subject to taxation. This fact, together with the need to establish a specific rate to cover the costs associated with the sanitation service which the Autonomous Community can provide, requires the creation of two specific rates for each service, thereby derogating the aforementioned green coefficient. For this purpose, the present law aims to provide a solution to this dysfunction by creating two new tributes. Therefore, the exhibition of motives itself recognizes that taxable bases are extended and new taxes are created. And the board also redefines taxes, but it expands taxable bases and sets new obligations, hiding the economic impact that all this will have, because the preliminary draft they presented does not include any economic-financial study on the economic and tariff impact of this new tax system. The structure of this new imposition translates into a particularly serious penalty for people who have less water to consume, as well as for households with a greater number of residents; which goes against and strikes diametrically with that new water culture, which I was talking about earlier. When Junta says that the decision to raise bills for consumption and water treatment is part of the local autonomy, it ignores that this text imposes obligations that it will have to finance the municipalities and that it will also be the municipalities that send receipts to users and those who have to manage the board, without receiving any kind of compensation, as is the case in so many cases of competences that the board should facilitate and that what it does is simply -- so to say -- subcontract. But there's still a new increase that implies the pre-project at the cost of the water cycle service when recording water losses at a rate of more than EUR 0.29 per cubic meter. And it's not justified in any way which is the basis of calculation that bases the fixing of that specific amount, that is, why that price is set and not another. Not to mention that a single rate is set for all municipalities to assess the different infrastructure problems that the municipalities may have, which prevents them from being able to improve these networks to avoid such losses, such as the existence of historical helmets. In short -- and to finish -- we are facing a new manifestation of politics that has recently repeatedly and consistently practiced the Galician Board of "I invite and you pay." The economic situation, in many cases very negative, of the Councils of Galicia, does not seem to matter the least. And that's why, and all the above, this draft water law should be consensual to local administrations and not to be imposed in the form of traffic, as you intend. And what we should not do in any case is try to address the enormous shortcomings of our policy in the management of the water cycle and its inaction for so long on this subject at the expense of both the autonomy and the financial adequacy of local administrations. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u71	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u72	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. We don't even start, Mr. Bará. We hardly start because you, once again, come to make this plenary an important exercise of political hypocrisy. You were talking about the weekend. It's true, on that weekend when the Galego Nationalist Bloc renounces independence but continues to keep partners in the Republican Left or Bildu. That weekend when the Block speaks of "yes" but it goes on to say "no" to any kind of initiative important to Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] On this weekend or these days coming to the plenary, they speak of Galicia at large, but they value the post of vice-presidents in the deputies or mayor's offices in the various municipalities of Galicia. I have to admit yesterday afternoon that I was waiting for the withdrawal of this initiative, because since all that happened since the last plenary session, I thought you would withdraw this initiative. Because that denial of the Fegamp -- of what you've talked about as a corner of a malaise -- is not such discomfort, Mr. Bará. You've intentionally hidden yourself. What happened was that in the two periods of allegations that the Galician Union opened so that everyone could present their -- including Fegamp --, facilitating transparency, Fegamp presented a claim that later realized that it was miscalculated. Fegamp made a claim on the receipt of the water from the Vilagarcia Town Hall, the president of the Fegamp, and said he was going to raise the price that the neighbors were supposed to have to pay. But when we analyzed the claim that Fegamp moved, we noticed that the Fegamp technicians were miscalculated and that they did not raise the price of the water receipt. [[Applause]] But you didn't withdraw the initiative, no. You're loyal to their principles. They say no. Why? Because to PP or water; never better said in this case. We can't accept anything from PP or water. And any person would not understand his posture because we've been listening to mayors' problems for years. By the way, Mr. Arangüena, the powers are the local administration. They don't seem to get into their heads. They're the local administration! From the first meeting of Galicia what was done was an analysis of the situation, to see how they were all, the three hundred and thirteen municipalities of Galicia. And it was done for responsibility, with seriousness, with rigour, with diligence. And I'm also going to tell you one thing: it was done bravely by the Galician Council and also by the municipalities that wanted to have that audit and to know what the situation was like and where the problems were. Proud of some, also of the Galician Nationalist Block, but not because you told them. The tools that were within reach were studied and various actions were proposed in an enviable transparency process. I repeat: up to two times the claim period has increased. And they introduced themselves not imposing, Mr. Aranguena, to argue with the Fegamp to really explain to the mayors of Galicia how this would be voluntary. They were explained there and different forums were also made with different protagonists. But what is the position of the Block and also that of the PSOE? No, the block is still the "no" one, because it was always the "no" one, and that's what they carry in their DNA. You can't change, even if you come up here saying that you've changed and are positive. No, what they are is provocative, especially for those we know. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] You come here to provoke but not to propose. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] If you were proactive and unfriendly, you would make proposals in a positive way. They would make proposals to improve what they think can be improved in this law; but, no, they don't. You're hard to say that you think of Galicia as big when any idea that comes from the PP tells you that "no" for coming from the PP. That's not to think of a large Galician, that's to think of a small Galician, little girl, very little girl. That's what really happens when you say "no" to everything, and especially when you come from the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] That speech is false and effective, and it's just a strategy, as we told them the other day. I'll tell you what's the real situation of the Town Hall, some of the Block. Pontevedra does not manage the debugger, of course, that's a problem, then others handle it. The board invested 30 million euros in the Pontevedra stream. In Bueu the debugger works badly, and EDAR didn't put one of the biological treatment channels into operation. Mr. Aranguena, in the early spring, the debugger saturates with rainwater and industrial spills, and the Town Hall does nothing. Sure, it's okay. In Rianxo to EDAR it receives industrial discharges; by the way, it is superior to those legally established. And what does the Rianxo Town Hall do, ruled for decades by the BNG? Nothing! What he does is he invests in solving the problems. There Mrs. Pontón will not explain Rianxo's debugging problems and what has been the performance of the BNG in recent years; there she won't. In Ribadeo, too many rivers make the debugger work badly. In Poio, water enters through the sewers, even salted water. This is a small sample of how local administration's competences are mismanaged. We could look elsewhere, Mr Aranguena, because this is ultimately a problem of the municipalities. You can look the other way and don't do anything. Or you can analyze the situation and put on the table various tools, always on a voluntary basis, and try to help the municipalities and collaborate among all -- municipalities, deputies and joinery of Galicia --. But few times you've seen so much demagogy in a political party. From the very first moment, the BNG has tried to destabilize, to speak of false premises and lies. It's not true that Junta is dodging its powers, because they're from the local administration, and at the same time they say that Junta invades the powers. You gave them the same!, the case was to criticize the PP project to say "no," which is what they like. It is a lie that if you intend to increase the collection, there are no new tributes, Mr. Aranguena. Read better the next time you have the project. It's a lie that he hasn't moved forward in river sanitation; it's worth over a billion euros since 2009, Mr. Aranguena. It's a lie that if the Town Councils don't enter the Union, they won't invest in them; in no case has it been said and always denied by the advisor himself and all those responsible for the waters of Galicia. And it's a lie that there's no transparency -- as I said before --. He lied after lies to disguise the usual: the "no" of the BNG. But, curiously, what is a reality and a real problem, you, either one or the other, didn't talk about it. There is a very important problem in recent times: increasing the price of light makes it unsustainable to maintain EDARs and supply by municipalities. But you don't say anything about it. The Galician Board announced that in the next year's budget, they are expected to increase by three million euros. That gave them exactly the same because they don't care. But you're in the November 8 issue: "The municipalities of Salné are studying whether to impact the rise of the water up to the neighbors or to assume it with their own funds." The Grove Town Hall says there's an increase of 100,000 euros for the increase in the price of light for water treatment, and it doesn't know if it's paid by the Town Hall or impacting it on its neighbours. Of this matter, which is a serious problem for all the municipalities, you don't say anything at all, neither the Bloc nor the Socialist Party, and it's a problem that concerns your mayors. The other day we had the opportunity to talk to some mayor of the Bloc and the Socialist Party, and they were worried. But you don't come in there because you're not interested. If you thought big and you were the "yes" ones, they'd apologize today. If they were "yes," they'd apologize today and withdraw the initiative. Just over a month ago, Mrs. Pontón was saying that the new law was going to bring a 60% increase at the price of the receipt. [[Mr. Calvo Pouso shows the House a photograph.]] I was going out with a glass of water saying that the new law is going to increase by 60%. [[Mr. Calvo Pouso takes a glass of water in his other hand and shows it to the nationalist bench.]] And now it turns out that, after the calculations made by Junta with the Fegamp technicians, it was a bubble. It was a bull, Mrs. Pontón; it was a lie. Turns out it's not true that they're going to increase water bill prices. So another bull from Mrs. Pontón. It's another bull. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I suppose if you... you know why? [[Murmurs.]] Because I've read before, Mr. Rivas, I've read it before and I don't dedicate myself to creating bubbles and creating false lies as other political parties do. [[Applause]] If you really believed what they said and what they were trying to move since last weekend, they would come here today, they would apologize, and Mrs. Pontón tomorrow around questions to the president would tell him I was sorry, that the law they seem to be promoting wouldn't do what she thought, and so they could start to be credible. But you're the one who's always devoted to it, which as a People's Party initiative is to end it, you have to vote that "no" and you have to try to convince all the municipalities and the rest that it's not a good initiative. That's why you keep thinking about Galicia as a child, they're still "no" and, at most, they can be provocative, but never proactive. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u73	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the motion, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u74	Mr. Diego Calvo, you gave a good analyst to Radio Gaga. As a benegologist has no price, it would also help to improve radio gaga pluralism, which -- as we know -- is very low, right? [[Laughter]] If you were there, democracy would win a lot, I'm telling you the truth. [[Applause]] What's not worth is political filibusterism, which is what you practice. But not the Group of the People's Party, which would no longer be very reasonable and acceptable, is that the Greek Government itself is cheating, manipulating meetings with the Fegamp technicians, filtering the day before a parliamentary debate a false information. It's just that you shot at the foot. Because I have here the record of that meeting, I have been briefed on these issues, and I know what the record says is not... it's a draft of a record, a summary of a meeting, where it says there are discrepancies in certain questions about the analyses, that we can't use the case of Vilagarcia but neither... each case is different and we have to do a global analysis. But the technicians who were there I assure them that they are outraged by the unworthy behaviour of the People's Party's Union, disloyally manipulating the content of that meeting. [[Applause]] Today, by the way, -- I don't know if it's over -- there was a meeting of Fegamp spokesmen and spokesmen, and we wait for what they're going to say about that unfair filtration of the People's Party Group. And so things will be clear. The problem with Joina is he doesn't even do what he has to do, his responsibilities, and he doesn't comply with parliamentary agreements. He didn't make the Greek sanitation and supplies plans, which he had to do, which were in the law of 2010. Eleven years of failing to meet their obligations, and now they're going to impose their obligations on others. Secondly, in 2013, Galicia will form the Water Sustainable Use Council. Even on the web page, there is information about the Sustainable Use of Water. Zero, eight years without doing anything. The Board is given the deadline of one year to deal with a single water receipt from a single Greek, which would solve many problems we're talking about now. Do you know what year this information is? From 2013. Eight years waiting for the local water pact. This is the balance of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And the problem is that you actually think of Galicia as small, and you have to think of Galicia and the water policy as big. You think water politics and politics generally half a day, because in the morning they're government, in the afternoon they're opposed to the municipalities and to the Fegamp. And you have to work in government on a full day, you can't work half a day. [[Applause]] Second. You make government half or a third of the country, and you can't do the water policy by leaving out the main rivers in Greece: Mine and Sil. It is essential to have control over these areas. And they have a water policy divided by half, which is one part of the environment, which doesn't care about the matter, another part of the Galician Waters, which is in another council. And you don't have to talk to each other, you don't agree, if it's one thing you say to the other, and otherwise you're against it. This is not the policy of water, which is also a policy of the past century, a policy of grey infrastructure, and we are already in the era of green, but of real green, not of the eucalyptus green of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And from big country agreements, because water is a very serious, very serious, very worrying, very alarming matter, where there will be serious problems in the future, and it must be the subject of a major country agreement. That's why BNG brings here positive proposals and constructive proposals. What we ask you to vote for, we ask you to vote for if you meet the demands of the Fegamp and, consequently, withdraw the preliminary draft and do something very logical and very reasonable, which is to open a process of dialogue between all sides. Will you vote "yes" to this or will you vote "no"? That, this one and the two before that, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thanks for the point, Olalla. [[Applause]] You're the "no." Because if you see the votes in this plenary, the BNG votes 70 percent of the time in favour of our own, the PSOE and your own, and you systematically vote against, systematically vote against all proposals, all of them. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Are you going to vote in favour of making the Greek sanitation and supplies plans, yes or no? BNG will vote that yes, you will vote that no. Will they vote in favour of Fegamp's demands to extend the deadlines for making these sectoral plans? BNG will vote that yes, you will vote that no. Will they redirect the manufacture of public works and sanitation? We're going to vote that yes, you're going to vote that no. Are you going to send Parliament that documentation we're asking for? We're going to vote that yes, you're going to vote that no. Will the Galicia-Costa hydrological plan be sent to Parliament for discussion and approval? We're going to vote that yes, you're going to vote that no. Are they going to comply with the Law on the Protection of the Yellow Rivers? We're going to vote that yes, you're going to vote that no. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u75	Thank you, Mr Bará. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u76	At the end of the debate on motions, we started with the votes. We voted first of all for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Ms. Mercedes Complaints. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Quiet, please, we're voting. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Complaints Zas, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the Greek cultural sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u77	We voted in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega, on the policy of the German Government on the transparency of information on the health situation of residential care centres for older persons. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero, on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the information transparency of the health situation of residential care centres for older persons. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u78	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xoese Luís Bará. [[Murmurs before the vote.]] It was a bad day today. Bad luck, he didn't touch today. [[Laughter]] Another day he'll play, calm down. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the policy of the Galician Union in the management of the water cycle. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u79	We suspended the session until 6:00. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u80	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session with point 3 of non-law proposals. Proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on the shipyards of Navantia, in the Ferrol River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u81	This motion for a non-law was tabled by a self-amendment of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, another amendment of the Galician Socialist Group and a third amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u82	Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u83	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. At the beginning of this year, Mr. José Manuel Rey, Mr. Diego Calvo and I registered in the Register of this House a dozen identical initiatives. We did it because in the district of Ferrolterra there were hundreds of workers in the auxiliary shipbuilding industry who lost their jobs. Today, ten months later, after having discussed this initiative ten times, we are in exactly the same situation. Here we are, therefore, for the tenth consecutive month, fulfilling our commitment to debate the times that this initiative was needed because indolence is the worst one can have a political representative. As since the Galician People's Party, we are not going to practice this indolence of the Government of Spain, which is part of the PSdeG-PSOE and the Nationalist Block of Galicia, we are today reiterating our demand in this House. A demand that is not only of the People's Party of Galicia, but that is the demand of an entire region that is witnessing in stupor to an unprecedented fall in occupation, while from the Government of Spain it looks to the other side, despite being the holder of the one hundred percent of the shareholding of that public yard of the Ferrol River. It is true that, over the past few months, there is one thing that has changed: the PSdEG-PSOE began first abstinence and we finally managed to vote in favour of this initiative. But it is in no way useful to vote in favour if the Government of the State does not do what we ask it to do; it is of no use its paripé, because the reality is that voting in favour not only takes the hair of this House's majority group, which proposes this initiative, but also the set of neighbours of the district of Ferrolterra and, by extension, all the Greeks. Today I come to ask them to abandon cynicism and vote against this initiative. If they don't believe in the naval, if they're not going to do anything to help the thousands of employees who depend on him and if they don't care about Ferrol, they vote against this initiative. I ask the PSdEG-PSOE that if you won't press your partymates in Madrid and if you won't get wet to get workload for the yards of the Ferrol River vote against. I ask the BNG that if you will not make use of that covenant which you have signed to make President of Sánchez, if you will not subject yourself to the general interest again and abandon the early defence of Mrs Pontón to President Sánchez, please vote against; that you leave the paripé and vote what it really represents with your performance. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to start with a reflection on what the status of the naval sector is in the Ferrol River. In the general budgets of the State of 2018, adopted one week before the motion of censure promoted by Mr. Pedro Sánchez, an amount of EUR 250 million was assigned for the start of the construction of the five frigates F-110 -- EUR 251 million to begin the construction of those frigates!-- We are ending the year 2021 and the reality is that the resources allocated in 2018 have not been invested, the resources have not been invested in the year 2019, nothing has been invested in the year 2020 and nothing has been invested in the year 2021. That's the commitment of Government Sánchez, who found a project on the table and the only thing he did was paralyze it all this time. Since the Socialist Party ruled in Spain since 2018, three different presidents had Navantia. See if that can be an example of good management! Rather, it's the unequivocal demonstration of the lack of direction in a company that had to be doing a lot of activity in the county of Ferrolterra. In this period, the great achievements of the Socialist Government were to delay sine die the project of the frigates F-110. Successive contracts were lost with various armed forces, millionaire contracts from which the yard was excluded, and refused to hire the construction of a BAM -- a Maritime Action Book -- on the rail yards of Ferrol's stream -- I don't know if they remember-- We proposed it in this House at the end of the previous legislation, and the PSdEG-PSOE said the BAM was not necessary for the Spanish Navy. What happened? That it's been four months and the government of Pedro Sánchez has charged a BAM. Where? South yards. And those who said that the Navy didn't need that boat looked to the other side, which is what usually makes Mr. Gonzalo Caballero's Socialist Party. So that's the reality we find ourselves in right now. The Socialist Party has the blank sheet concerning the shipyards of the Ferrol River. Ferrol is a city serving the state. Ferrol was born as a city in the 18th century because there was a decision by the Bourbons to install a military arsenal and shipyards in the service of the Spanish Navy. I already know that the party that was an independent party and that it is now a sovereignist that talks about the Spanish Navy and the defense of the warships suits it. But the reality is that this is the origin of the shipyards of the Ferrol River: some shipyards in the service of the Spanish Navy to build warships, and that's what we've been living for centuries; making the best warships, which are not only for our army, but once we've built for our army, we've managed orders from third countries to carry on ships. That's what we're dedicated to, and that's the know-how of a whole region that's specialized precisely in that. Therefore, in view of the situation in which we are now, at the beginning of this year the Council of Galicia also took the initiative, seeing that the Government of Spain did absolutely nothing. The Council of Galicia, along with the social agents of the district of Ferrolterra, with mayors and the president of the parliament -- by the way, now the new secretary general of the Socialist Party -- a state pact for Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal. Once we have drawn up a first document, we refer it back to the Presidency of the Government of Spain. The month of May was precisely the exact date on which that document was referred, that state pact to the Moncloa Palace. Since May, there has been no single response from the Government of Spain to the state pact; not even an ambiguous and courteous response. No, not even a negative, not even a negative. There's no answer, they're not worthy to answer. That's what concerns the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the Socialist Party and the Greek branch of the PSdeG-PSOE -- is in front of whoever's-- the district of Ferrolterra. In the face of this situation, we have to say that there is one responsible, because the shipyards are one hundred percent public, dependent on SEPI, the Ministry of Business, the Government of Spain. Of course, there's an official called the Government of Spain, but there are also some accomplices in this situation of abandonment, and those accomplices sit in this House: the PSdeG-PSOE and the Nationalist Block Galego. These are the accomplices of that abandonment and the situation in which a whole region is found. So we introduce -- once again and we won't get tired of doing it -- again, this self-amended initiative because we want to be more demanding. I think we have a fairly broad initiative. At the first point, we demand that the Galician Union put in place this Territorial Delegation of the Union in Ferrol, devoted primarily to the pursuit of the content of this state pact and that it do so in the first quarter of this year next, 2022. Secondly, we summarize the main demands we make to the Government of the State. First, the signing once and for all of the state pact, which has already been a unanimous mandate of this Parliament -- I suppose they will maintain that vote. The second is the designation of a direct interlocutor of the Government before this state pact. We suggest that they be precisely the two vice presidents of the Government, the first and the second, the two allegedly Welsh; non-practicing Greek ministers, because of the Greeks, day by day, they show little more. [[Applause]] Thirdly, we demand once again the construction of a BAM, on the railways of the Ferrol River, which enables us to equip the workers of the auxiliary industry with immediate workload. Fourthly, the inclusion in the State's general budgets for 2022 of a game worthy of the F-110 frigates. Do you know how much next year's budgets are for the frigates? One hundred twenty-one million euros. That doesn't even start. This actually demonstrates the real will of the Government of Spain, which is to do absolutely nothing. Fifthly, we demand the establishment of a free zone in Ferrol which has to allow the commercial and industrial activity of the region to be stimulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u85	It's about providing the district of Ferrolterra with a competitive advantage. And finally, we demand the investments needed to modernize an 18th-century yard and make it a 21st-century yard: it's known as Stareer 4.0. From his design he committed himself directly to the Union of Galicia, through various funds. We expect this initiative to count on the genuine and sincere support of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u86	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u87	...and the Galego Nationalist Block. They don't vote in favour if they're not willing to, from the Government that you support in Spain, if you do something to equip a region that depends so much on the central government that this indifference ends up insulting. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u89	Ladies and gentlemen of the Galician PP, for the last time you take advantage of the need to equip the Ferrol naval industry with work to sow the story that there is an evil central government that conspires against Galicia and a Senate of the Galician PP who defends it against that supposed conspiracy. You forget that the Progressive Government took out of the box the program and the project that the PP government has delayed for two years, because there was a "problem" with the missiles of former minister Morenés -- which was very interested in placing these missiles -- that it made a company for which it had previously worked; you forget that the Progressive Government has compromised the largest industrial investment in Galician history, which will be those frigates F-110, with an budget of 4,325 million euros; and you forget that in the general state budgets this year, these 122 million -- you seem very little, but it is not -- for the start of the work of these frigates; the first of which is expected to start to be built in March 2022, that is to say, within five months. So you forget a lot, but you don't give up telling us that the problems of Navantia Ferrol are so simple that they manage a pen in the next Council of Ministers, when things are very different and much more complex. And the attribution of all the evil that happens in Galicia, an evil outside enemy that causes us free suffering, is a disincentive and an attempt to confuse people, telling them that the causes of our problems are outside of Galicia, when it is usually not so, because we have a very high level of self-government and budget capacity, according to that level of self-government. By the way, during the seven years in which the PP ruled in Madrid you didn't get much. In fact, what did you get in those seven years for Galicia? Nothing or at least nothing minimally remarkable; while these three years of progressive governments have compromised their F-110 frigates, if they have lowered AP9's rates -- for the first time in our history! - and the AVE will arrive in Galicia without a minute's delay, without a minute's delay! [[Applause]] These are the facts, while theirs is noise and demagogy. That fallacy that "Spain steals us" in which they have been installed for three years is so lying and destructive that "Spain steals us" from the Catalan separatists -- I won't tire of repeating it --. In addition to spreading that fallacy, you are contributing to Galicia's staying alienated and not facing the cause of its problems, of which, in part, are you yourself, after thirty-six years of paralyzing governments on the right in Galicia. The reality is that in Galicia there are important industrial problems that are the result of the current set, but also the absolute failure of planning and strategy for twelve years, and also that you have full competences in industrial and economic policy that you systematically do not exercise. Barreras is heading for liquidation, and it's not because of the progressive government; Vulcan broke, and it wasn't because of the progressive government, and hundreds of Greek companies moved north of Portugal in the years in which Rajoy ruled in Spain, which obviously isn't the fault of the progressive government. You've got some guilt implicitly recognized when they say they're going to make a law of Galician business areas now, with more than a decade's delay, because you've been over a decade's delay on this subject. That seems to be your usual reaction time: a decade to say that they're going to make a law to deal with a serious Galician problem. According to you, when Gamesa moves north of Portugal, doing the same thing that those hundreds and hundreds of Greek companies have done for years, it's the fault of the progressive government, and when Vestas moves it's also the fault of the progressive government. But wouldn't it have anything more to do with the failure of the Board to bet on the wind theme, given that the president himself of the Galician Wind Association literally says that this is the "law of the jungle" and the president of the Wind Observatory also literally says that this is the "law of the west"? won't it have anything else to do with that? Pemex's fiasco, which was going to build twenty-two ships in Galicia, a logistics base at the edge of Langosteira and reflect Barriers, is it the fault of the progressive government? Is it the fault of the progressive government that Mr. Rajoy's Ministry of Government Development in the years 2016-2017 has done a defeat in the works of the AVE, causing overcosts and delays, in some cases more than two years, as stated in a demolition report of the State Court of Auditors? Is it the fault of the progressive government that Mr Aznar has extended the concession of AP9 for more than twenty-five years? A concession that has no parallel in other autonomous communities and can end up annulled by the European Union as the true caicada that was, while you really applauded that yes, truly, admiral to Galicia. So again I'm not going to practice the bad sport of blaming all of you -- as you do with us -- by offending collective intelligence, by degrading our democracy and increasing anti-politics with the risks that that that it poses for you, too. But it seems clear to me, obviously! that the negative things that happen in Galicia that have been governed by you thirty-four of the forty years of autonomy should be much more their responsibility than anyone's, because you have full and exclusive competences in industrial policy and promotion of economic activity, and do not exercise them. His industrial policy -- the only industrial policy known for his side -- is escapism, and that's not a good industrial policy; neither is it now, nor was it ten years ago when the crisis began in Galicia. Instead, do you know what the progressive government did in 2018? Approving the execution and bidding of the F-110 frigate program, and in November 2019 approving a loan to Navantia worth EUR 1,638 million to build these frigates; a program of 4,325 million -- as I said -- which implies the largest industrial investment in Galician history and that -- I'm sorry to have to insist -- the current government pulled out of the drawer in which the previous government had put it, the Rajoy Government, on that issue of missiles. I regret to have to insist on the delay of the missiles that El Correo Gallego said in November 2018: "The Government admits that Morenés slowed down the F-110 de Ferrol" and subtitulated that "El Correo has already advanced in 2013 and 2014 the movements of the former minister to favour their companies with prejudice to Navantia." You had logically to complain about these claims if they were uncertain, but they didn't. In front of their tales, they are the accounts of Navantia that are public. Net equity is the accounting value of a company and does not have to match the market value, but reflects, in theory, the faithful image of a company's heritage. Navantia's heritage value in 2011, it has to be said that what left the Zapatero Government was 222 million euros; this net asset in 2017 was -653 million euros. That is, in 2011 Zapatero left 222 million euros of positive value and in 2017 you left - 653 million euros, after having in that year the company Navantia the biggest losses in history, namely 296 million euros. [[Applause]] And, therefore, during his mandates and the mandates of Rajoy's governments were accumulated year after year losses, losses and more losses, leaving Navantia with a negative heritage value, i.e. broken. That's what you left: a company broken with a record of losses. These data -- which I give -- are public, because Navantia is a public company and its accounts are hung on its website for anyone who wants to see them and knows how to interpret them. The new Central Government reduced its losses to half in 2019, to 144 million euros, half that you did in 2017. But -- as I've told you on one occasion -- the pandemic came, there's an economic crisis, there was a very important economic crisis in the year 2020, and all countries see their financial capacities reduced as a result of heavy and extraordinary expenses that they have to disburse, like, for example, Spain, about 20-25% of their GDP in a single year to alleviate the economic effects of the pandemic and try to get nobody to stay behind; which you didn't do when you did the same thing. But the reality -- I was saying -- is that you left a Navantia in an insolvency situation, artificially kept alive through multimillion-year capital injections by the state. So Navantia, broken; Vulcano, broken; Barriers, almost broken; a project of frigates delayed by the pure and personal interests of a PP minister; the Pemex case, about which Mr. Feijóo announced in a pre-election period that he was going to build twenty-two ships in Galicia, which were then two, which would also make a logistic base of Pemex at the Langoster point, from which there was nothing known, and a gentleman who took the picture with Mr. Feijóo and who is now imprisoned in Mexico. Finally, we tabled an amendment for the Union to assume its economic and industrial competences in the area of Ferrolterra, and to assume that the PP will not accept, because that is its policy: to blame others and not assume their responsibilities. By the way, in 2009 there were 74,273 inhabitants in Ferrol. When the evil progressive government arrived, there were 66,799. These are INE data. Do you know how many less inhabitants are during the period of Mr. Feijóo here and Mr. Rajoy in Madrid? It's 7,474...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u91	...inhabitants less. The most intense rate of population loss since industrial conversion began. You should think a little bit about it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, a proposal by the People's Party on Navantia asking the State Government for several actions, and again the Socialist Party contests a proposal in which it demands that the Union perform a series of actions as well. The PP demands that the PSOE government and the PSOE act as the PP government. It's all about ordering the other person to do and while nothing's done. And that's how the years go by. Meanwhile, the city of Ferrol has lost a third of its population. There's no other case the same in the whole Spanish state, and it's not a problem in the town of Ferrol, it's comarcal. Ferrol's comarca, from Ortegal to Eume, has lost these forty years of restrictions and permanent reduction of capacities in Navantia three times more population than he lost Galicia on average. A demographic crisis that inevitably follows the already permanent economic and industrial crisis of the district of Ferrol. A crisis arising from the agreement -- also permanent -- solid between PP and PSOE on which is the company model they want for Navantia in the Ferrol River; a shrinking company, restricted to a single segment of activity: military construction. It follows that these restrictions result in the emptying of systematic grades and therefore the impossibility of stabilising employment and fixing population. It looks like Japanese and Korean competitors have been showing for years that competitiveness is rooted in the use of synergies between various and different activities. It is the same as the European naval sector had settled in civil construction and high-tech teams. It follows that Navantia's own economic memory shows that military construction is a captive market and that 90% of the new contracts for 2019 are to be built on the domestic yards of the contracting countries. It is the same as this limited military construction market will incorporate fearsome competitors, such as China or the United States. And it just looks like the level of evidence that exists about the fact of military construction is not enough to guarantee neither the future of the company nor to correct the dramatic, economic and demographic trend of the county of Ferrol. The main important thing is to keep track of the route 40 years ago "fall down." You have a deal in this. Their mutual reproach and dialectic feud that they practice from time to time is nothing more than a show for the gallery. The truth is, for the past 40 years, neither PP nor PSOE have done anything to recover the civilian shipbuilding or to set up a company that takes advantage of all its potential in the shipbuilding market and maritime technologies. Today, is there marine wind in Fene? Yes. The contributions are made where the mills are installed, but this does not mean a real and decisive wager from Navantia by this sector at all. Navantia gives more and more of its contracts and facilities to Windar. The same could be said of the repair area, with serious infrastructure problems to meet the demand on the world market today, or of the turbine division, which has long abandoned the wind turbine business. The same could be said of the government's bet on research or new technologies for the decarbonization of maritime mobility. How can it not exist in Ferrol, after so many years of shipbuilding and having engineering colleges, a well-funded and permanent technology centre in the shipbuilding sector, which is not subject to the instability of projects and condemned to lose the investigator's staff every few years? The government bet, the wager of these forty years of shift between PP and PSOE was the permanent reduction of the company's capabilities. The numbers don't give rise to doubts: where fifteen thousand people worked, today there are not two thousand and five hundred. The bet on the future of both PP and PSOE is more than that; they made it perfectly clear in the current Industrial Plan for Navantia, a plan -- this must be remembered -- developed by the Government of Mr. Rajoy, but because of the motion of censure, it had to be signed by the Government of Pedro Sanchez practically without reading it. So far, they agree with the company model that they want for Navantia: a company model in restricted production to the military field; a company model in labor, where auxiliary industry staff are second-class staff and a business model, as well as corporate governance, where Galician Union cannot be present. These are the three basic aspects that characterize the business model that the People's Party and the Socialist Party share. Now the People's Party comes to demand that the Ferrol State Pact be promoted unanimously approved in this parliament. We must remind Mr Tellado that the State Pact for Ferrol has not been adopted unanimously in this parliament. As far as BNG is concerned, we voted in favour of a proposal to make a state pact for Ferrol. What have you brought to this parliament? An undeveloped statement and no concrete action. The concrete measures have never been voted on in this Parliament, they have never brought them and they have never been put to the debate or the vote. The complete document was sent later to the mayors and unions of the county of Ferrol, and it was for them that we knew the contents of the famous state pact. So far there comes the Trilerism of the People's Party, which hides the content of its proposals to get votes in favour. But we finally know them. And BNG can no longer disagree with a document that bets to keep the current company model for Navantia, which does not contain any project to reindustrialize The Bridges, which does not contain any project to regenerate the river and which does not contain any project to restore and put into value the archaeological, historical and monumental heritage of the region or our natural heritage. I'm gonna stop this for a couple of minutes. On the coast of the county of Ferrol and the municipality of Narón there is an archeological heritage of great value, located very close to the beaches of Doinños, Santa Comba, Ponzos and Campelo, which set an impressive landscape. An area very much appreciated by all the people in the region that we deeply identify with those beaches and with that historic, landscaped and natural heritage. In this area are found the marbles of Brión, in the parish of the same name, and the castles of Lobadiz, in Doninos, Santa Comba, in Covas, in the area where the hermitage of the same name is, or the castle of Vilasso, in the Vale. The latter, by the way, property of the Galician Union, in a very poor state of conservation and which has already been the subject of complaints by the Association of Neighbors of the Vale, so that they at least clear the area. And also in the Vale, just a hundred meters from the castle, is the punishment of Molexa, a megalytic monument and absolutely unique. All this heritage is in ruins, when it could be an important source of wealth if the Union had wagered to restore it and put it in value. Even more if, for example, if you had set up or enabled an interpretation center to properly contextualize this entire heritage and disseminate our history, which could be -- put on a case-by-case -- in the area of Ferrol Oldo and take advantage of its installation to rehabilitate new spaces in this medieval district of Ferrol. The rehabilitation of a historic neighborhood, the rehabilitation of archaeological heritage and the value and dissemination of our history, which, in addition to being a source of wealth, would provide you with the opportunity to learn that Ferrol was not born in the eighteenth century. The same could be said of the monastery of Santa Catalina, in Ares, and the monastery of Monfero, of the monastery of Caaveiro, in the heart of the forests of the Eume or of the road to Santo André de Teixido. An absolutely monumental historical and natural heritage which also refers to periods of our history of great transcendence and which is also totally in ruins. But of this his state pact says nothing at all, when it is evidence of his potential and the need to address his position in value. Your state pact also doesn't say anything about expanding the Natura Network; that figure of protection of natural spaces, especially valuable, that was planned, but that you suspended sine die. An extension that would increase the protected territory in the forests of the Eume, the river Jubia or the Ártebra coast. None of this speaks of his state pact for Ferrol, nor of regaining industrial capabilities in the naval sector, nor of pushing a technology center for the naval, a center of R+D+I for energy storage in the Bridges, nor of rekingling the river, nor of acting on our impressive heritage. His state pact is simply a pact of silence on the inaction of the Government of Fascius. Silence over the lack of ambition of the Government of Faixóo, silence over the lack of involvement of the Government of Feixóo with the future of the county of Ferrol and silence over its resignation to exercise its powers and fix all the focus -- that's yes -- on the inaction of the government of the state. A state pact not to touch precisely what could mean a real change in the region: to put Navantia to produce, breaking with restrictions; to make the bridges an industrial people around energy; to regenerate Ferrol's stream, and to value our historical and natural heritage. But instead of concrete actions in these areas, what do you propose? What is the only proposal that is really in your hands? Create a delegation of the Galician Ferrol Union. They call me wrong, but the thing seems like that delegation will be nothing but a platform to push a PP candidate to the mayor of Ferrol. A paid platform -- that's yes -- with public money. A platform paid by everyone in the best traditions of the People's Party: public money in the service of the party. [[Applause]] We'll see what's left of it. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Alfonzo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u95	Mr. Fernández Alfonso, it's difficult to demagox in ten minutes. You want Navantia Ferrol to compete with Asia in the civil market. That's right, isn't it? That's what he says, with the wages of Asia! You're kidding, Mr. Fernández Alfonso! You're kidding! His sectarianism prevents him from telling the truth. [[Laughter]] Navantia is a shipyard focused primarily on the military, where we are competitive, because in the civilian we have ceased to be competitive decades ago, and you know it. What happens is that his sectarianism and his dogmatism prevent him from recognizing it. That's the truth. [[Applause]] Stop your mummies! That as a smoke curtain it's not bad. Yours is an intervention towards the gallery, because the person responsible for the situation of the public shipyards of the Ferrol River is your partner, who governs in the municipalities, in the deputies... of course they give with their heads because it's the truth! The ones that rule everywhere. You at last weekend's assembly made two decisions: the first, with regard to independence, to conceal, and the second, with regard to Government Sánchez, to see, hear and shut up. That's the silence pact you have with the PSdG-PSOE and the Socialist Party. You're not useful to Galicia, you're only useful to yourself. [[Applause]] Mr. Orange, I understand it's not a good week to argue with you, because if you cheat on each other, how are you going to come here and cheat on ourselves? Turns out we're being accused of paralyzing. I don't know what contracts to give you. I don't know that Mr. Morenés. You don't read the paper because otherwise I wouldn't say that. Last week he published the press that those who awarded contracts to Mr. Morenés' company were his government, the Socialist Government, exactly fifteen days ago. Shame on you to come to this camera lying, Mr. Orange, lie! [[Murmurs.]] But if you're wrong, how are you going to try to fool us? [[Applause]] You worry about Navantia's losses. Navantia lost in many moments of its history; when it was Navantia, when it was Izar, when it was Bazán, it lost in many moments. We're concerned about employment. You see he's an accountant of a large company and what concerns him are the losses. Well, to me, as Ferrol's representative, what concerns me is the jobs, those hundreds and hundreds of workers who lost their jobs. It turns out that you come here and you are able to blame the Board for the situation in Barreras, which is a 100 percent private yard, and does not assume the responsibility of the Government of Spain on the situation in Navantia, which is one hundred percent public of the Government of Spain. You're a trileiro, and your party supports theses that are indefensible in a camera representing democracy in our country. [[Applause]] Mr. Arunguena, all the naval conversions in Ferrolterra's history since the 1980s have been led by socialist governments, hence the loss of population. Before you arrived at the Government of Spain, Ferrol was walking towards the 100,000 inhabitants. Why? Because in Ferrol there were some shipyards that gave a lot of work, public shipyards dependent on the Government of Spain. So you've been responsible for this loss of Ferrol population since the 1980s. Why? Because you ended up with a sector that was tremendously flourishing. The PP saved the shipyards from the Ferrol River in different historical scenarios. We did it in 2001, creating Izar, when the public yards were in technical breakdown, and we did it again in 2011, when we arrived at the government, because the Government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero left the yard without contracts during his last five years in front of the Government Presidency. What did Mariano Rajoy do? Between the years 2014 and 2018 we obtained a workload on the railway yards of the Ferrol River worth 1,900 million euros, Mr. Aranguena. We reopened Astano, the old Astano. We'll reopen it! He had a productive veto and who decided to close that yard was a socialist government. We reopen it with the marine wind, and there's four hundred million euros in contracts, in orders and workers in a sector that certainly has a lot of future. And finally, on the frigates F-110. We've developed the project, and you've been stopping it since 2018. Take the reality! Even though we're all concerned, you've been ruling in Spain since June 2018. Therefore, the status of the naval in the Ferrol River from 2018 until this November 2021 is sole responsibility, exclusive!, of the Government of its party. That's why it's normal for you to have to go up this rostrum and, instead of talking about the naval sector in the Ferrol River, you have to talk about AP-9 and you don't know how many more things you've talked about. You should be ashamed of yourself because you are also a Member of many ferrolans... of many not, some ferrolans, who voted for the Socialist Party, and you go on the same paper as Ferrol's representatives. [[Laughter]] Perhaps that's why the Socialist Party here has no representatives of Ferrol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u97	And maybe that's why you're the third political force in this parliament. They go on like this and they end up like The Tides, being an extra-parliamentary party. Stop betraying Galicia. Stop betraying Ferrol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u99	Haven't you learned anything these years? You betrayed Ferrol to do Mr. Pedro Sánchez' ball, and finally Mr. Pedro Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u101	...he chose someone who was willing to be more submissive than you and chose Mr. Valentín González Formoso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u103	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u104	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Non-law proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Martín Seco García and Mr. Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán, on the achievement by the Government of a pact by the industry with the aim of reactivating the economy and modernizing the productive model towards the ecological transition and digital transformation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u105	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal and Mr. Seco García has the floor to make it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u106	Thank you, President. Mr. Tellado, to worry so much about Ferrol, there's nothing more to talk about than the Socialist Party. It's too bad. We are presenting this initiative in the face of the serious industrial crisis that Galicia is experiencing and the passivity of the Government of Greece which has the competences in industrial matters that give it exclusive the Statute of autonomy, but rather remain static and shoot against the Government of the State, rather than manage to try to recover a damaged productive tissue. The balance of the German Government's industrial policy over the past 13 years is clearly negative. Let's take a little walk through our territory: Throughout Galicia, agricultural holdings are in extreme gravity, losing money by selling under production costs, especially in the meat sector, but also in milk. A sector which accounts for 40% of state production, but only provides 11% of state invoicing. If we talk about the forest sector, despite the fact that Galicia accounts for 50 % of wood production throughout Spain, we only provide 13 % of state income. The future of Ence, in the air, with a Galician board that seems to be comfortable, favoring the closure for having no capacity to offer physical space alternatives to a company that in the future cannot continue in its current location by judicial judgment. We have the Navy shining through a deep industrial crisis with an Alcoa that survives thanks to the strength of its workers, its municipal representatives and the actions of the state to prevent closure; and a company like Vestas with an announced closure, without the Board putting into operation the necessary mechanisms that keep production in Viveiro. If we look at Ferrolterra, the only policy that happens to the People's Party is to bring once a month an initiative in which Navantia is asked to build a BAM, and to make a letter to the Magi kings -- that's what they do, Mr. Tellado -- about what others should do in this area, but for their part of zero initiatives. While this happens, they close Gamesa Siemens and the vice president manages to paralyze the sector. They still didn't understand what it was like to plan the territory, not to paralyze it. At the Bridges they have been waiting until today for the signing of the Energy Transition Protocol. The only community in all Spain that hasn't signed this agreement yet. In Ourense, they're not even expected. To talk about the industrialization of this province! In the Comarca de la Coruña, Iberian Alu has no solutions and with a Union that has neither done nor done anything about it. Refinery, without public betting policies for diversifying activities that help keep their future in a world of decarbonization. On the Death Coast, they are so unable to enforce a judicial sentence that it obliges them to maintain their jobs in Xeal to continue managing their hydroelectric activity. The private ship of Vigo, with companies like Barreras, Metalships or Vulcano, with a terrible crisis and without finding support from the autonomous administration. The car sector sees how the microchips crisis closes production lines in the old Citroën, and with them hundreds of jobs, and the Union does nothing to support it. Mr. Tellado, and so on. [[Applause]] But the crisis is also ratified by the official data you publish yourself. Galicia and Feijóo lose weight in the Spanish industry as a whole, both in terms of volume of production and in terms of employment. The analysis of the gross added value of extractive, manufacturing and energy industries shows a continuous decrease in their weight at the total gross added value, with a loss of weight of around 0,2 % per year. In past legislation, the industrial production index decreased by 2.5 % in Galicia; six times more than in Spain, where it decreased by 0.4 %. But in 2019, this index was particularly unfavourable, as it decreased by 5.6%, while in Spain it increased by 0.7%. In terms of employment, since Feijó ruled the Council of Galicia, industrial employment has decreased by 11.1%, while Spain has declined by four times. The German industrial employment in 2009 was 7.1% of Spain's total, and ten years later it was 6.6%, half-point less. The industrial policy of the Galician Union in recent years has been the best example of advertising and propaganda as government action axes. This permanent advertising campaign was reinforced with a battery of legislative texts, which allowed press rounds but did not contribute anything to the reinforcement of industrial fabric in Galicia, without instrumenting innovation programmes, internationalization programmes and improved industrial competitiveness programs. In 2015, the Government approved the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda. The two main objectives of the agenda up to 2020 were the growth of the industrial sector to about 20 percent of the German GDP and the creation of 50,000 new jobs in the industry. Obviously, failure is shown to be completely incomplete. On the other hand, the Igape, who should be the main public agent with which the Galician Union counts to carry out its industry policy, ultimately has a management that has turned out to be very poor and has been. When their initial economic departures seem to increase, they then suffer severe reductions, and the actual execution of expenditure in successive budgets is very low. So, as a whole, out of the 306 million Igape had for the 2016-2018 triennium, they only executed 160 million; little more than half. Something that didn't improve in 2019, in which they budgeted 160 million and executed only 71 million. Or in the last evaluated exercise, 2020, where they budgeted 130 million and executed 70% of them. It is clear from this data that we can say that the model of Feijóo governments in industrial activity, if it exists, does not work. It is essential to move forward towards new ways of action in industrial policy, especially in the current context of the growing fragility of the international economy, multiplied by the effects of the coming pandemic. In addition to the uncertainty of the international economic scenario, we have our own uncertainties generated by technological change, which will undoubtedly deepen the need to redefine the mechanisms of public action in industrial activity. The emergence of new activities and new forms of production obliges the public to strengthen this structural transformation. The central element of this new stage of industrial production must be knowledge, which would have to lead our economy towards greater productivity. It is essential to improve the efficiency of R & D+I policies, to support entrepreneurship and to stimulate organizational change and technological and infrastructure modernization. A greater economic effort is essential, but this must be accompanied by the objectives of minimizing barriers to growth and improving productivity and industrial fabric. It is necessary to establish a realistic and visionary industrial policy, which allows Galicia to have the opportunity to win its future on Industry 4.0, and even more in a context where the enlargement of the European Union and the crisis have brought with it the establishment of facilities for the relocation of Galician companies to other territories of the European Union. We need to develop a Welsh strategy of industrial modernization and competitiveness, taking into account our context, where we are under the European average in large companies and we have a large number of pemes that need help. Competition scenarios are two very different: on the one hand, in front of those territories with high investment rates in R & D+I, and, on the other, with those who have the advantage of low labour costs and also environmental costs. A new industrial policy is necessary, Mr Tellado, since this sector is strategic because of its ability to generate jobs with better wages, as well as greater quality and stability in employment; a fact easily evident by observing how autonomous communities with greater industrial weight, in turn, have lower unemployment rates and higher average income. Such reindustrialization must be complemented by measures that foster digital transformation, in addition to the transformation of the economy with social justice. Now, for such an ambitious goal, it is essential not only the will of the Government, but also the participation of all the agents who make up industrial activity in our country. That is why we German Socialists believe that it is necessary and essential to achieve a Greek pact by industry, agreed between all parliamentary groups in this house and trade union and business organisations, in order to give certainty to the sector and to encourage the attraction of new investments. A new pact for economic and social reconstruction, which should be negotiated in the Galician Parliament and agreed also with social agents. A pact that will allow for a rapid recovery of the sector and lay the foundations for a new industrial policy. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, decide: either you want to talk to the rest of society about what the future of our industrial activity will be like, or you'll still look at Feijóo, and don't look at what's going on with the work that's going on today with the industry and, above all, with the accelerated decline we have in a sector that with Feijóo is going to disappear. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Fernández Alfonso speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, the industrial sector in Galicia has only been bad news for many years. Industrial production and employment indexes are public and well known and mark very worrying trends. In the same way that the targets that have been announced from all institutions, both in the European Union and in the Spanish State, as well as in the Galician Union itself, are also public and well known: the goal of achieving a GDP of twenty percent, or the goal that investment in R & D+I reaches two and a half percent of GDP. And in this context, where the distance between declared targets and achieved targets increases in a worrying way, since the BNG we have seen denouncing the scarce interest and the scarce resources that the Union is intended to save certain companies across the blue industry, which are large-sized enterprises with large tractor capabilities and which have been being industrial champions, such as the Alcoa factories, for example, or the Vigo naval sector, the cases of Barreras and Vulcano. Since the BNG we have been launching proposals repeatedly so that the Union is involved in the rescue and impulse of these large companies; all of them are rejected. This represents an obvious contradiction between what is said and what is done by the Board of Lords. And it draws attention, in a way, to the consensus, of the unanimous agreement that exists around the importance that it is for any country to have large companies, these industrial champions, for many reasons, among them the tractor effect that they have on the economy in general, by their ability to generate economies of scale, by the resources that these companies use to R & D+I, by their ability to involve many small and medium-sized enterprises in their innovations, and also by the stability of employment and the wage level that these companies usually have. On the situation of Barreras, I refer to a chronicle which today publishes the Vigo Lighthouse and which is entitled "Rocanbolesco crack de Barreras", which ends up saying that the yard instead of ships has been making candies for years. In fact, he's been in the hands of adventurers for years, with interests and goals that nothing has to do with those who must preside over a business project with a vocation of permanence. The interests that Pemex might have, the most opaque, will be clarified and settled in the trial: the open causes, for corruption, against the managers of the company, those files of President Fexóo to save Barriers! Ritz Carlton's interest was exclusively to save his ship, something that was evident to everyone in Vigo, but not curiously to the board of Galicia. Barriers needs stability, they need a solid project, and they need that solidness to be noticed; they need someone to take the initiative, they need to be able to build an industrial project for the yard and they know how to launch the right messages: that the adventures are over and that there is a solid project, in the long run; that it gives them confidence both in the auxiliary industry and in the shipowners, and in the credit institutions. The shipyards operate in a very complex, very delicate sector, subject to strong tensions between customers and suppliers, and with great difficulty in financing contracts that far exceed their social capital. So, being realistic, today the only possibility of realising a project for Barriers of these characteristics, solid, stable and that generates trust, is that the Board is facing it. The Galician Union, the Government of Fexóo, has to decide whether it wants a future for Barriers, and the State Government has to accompany a German project for Barriers. As for the situation of the old Vulcan, the fact is that the People's Party, in the Harbour Authority of Vigo, continues to set traps, traps and confusion. And this is no way to promote such complex industrial activity -- we insist -- like shipbuilding. The German aluminium factories are also in a very delicate situation; that of the Coruña, in particular, is directly in the ICU. Of course, a definitive solution for these factories depends on two factors: The first is to solve the problem of the price of electricity, a problem that has now passed from industry to industry and is already a problem for everyone, for individuals, small businesses and large industries. With regard also to the price of electricity, BNG has repeatedly brought several initiatives, just as we have taken them to the Congress of Deputies; some of them will have an opportunity to discuss them again this afternoon. Let's see if some are accepted. But, in any case, the attitude of the Galician Union, of this government of Faezóo, merely accusing with its finger and not involving itself in any solution, has no justification at all. The crisis of the Alcoa factory in the Coruña, today, Alu Iberiana, is another paradigmatic case, with Junta unable to lead an industrial plan that guarantees the continuity of activity and employment, while merely marking guilty all around it. The situation that the closure of the thermal of the Bridges will provoke both in the locality and in the region, with an impact on the employment estimated by the University of Coruña in a thousand four hundred jobs, is also not being the subject of special attention by the board of Galicia. Since the BNG, we are very critical of this energy transition, which is becoming erratic and which lacks the necessary accompanying measures to prevent it from becoming the cornerstone of a German industrial sector which has already been dragging a serious crisis. But this policy of not doing anything and waiting for things to happen to themselves -- which they say was the mark of the house of "M. Rajoy" --, the only thing that makes things worse. There are things the Union can do, initiatives that the Union can push. BNG has also brought proposals in this direction, such as the establishment of an R+D+I center for energy storage, which is a key area precisely in the current context of energy model change; centers like this already exist with great success in Euskadi or have just been announced in Extreme. Centers like this proposed by BNG will be used to form around them by energy-related industrialists, thanks to the knowledge about this area that will be generated in them. Since the BNG we understand that Galicia needs as a water of May a pact of Greek by industry, a pact made on two objectives that today are in different plans. The first would be the rescue of those companies or sectors in crisis -- a Welsh pact by industry cannot lose an industrial fabric that is vital to our country -- and a second objective would be the promotion and momentum of initiatives for other important sectors of the country but they have potential to consolidate, to grow, or even to recover or relocate activities in our country. I'm talking about driving a project for the German automotive industry, initiatives aimed at reducing the current dependence on a single large manufacturer and the dependence on international supply chains, seeking to settle in Galicia battery factories and other critical components, such as semiconductors. Of course, regaining civil naval construction in the Ferrol River must be an objective of any Greek government -- I'm not going to have enough of this, which we've already defended in the previous initiative -- in the same way that recovering the textile industry must also be another objective. It is true that business levels in this sector are impressive because of the effect of having Index headquarters in Galicia, but employment data perfectly describe the reality of the sector, which has lost over a third of the total number of jobs in the years of Fexio government; a majority female employment and which was the main activity of certain districts. The wood industry is also a key sector for our country. A proper development of this sector would help not only create jobs and wealth -- especially by focusing on closing productive cycles in the country -- but also helping to improve the forest policy of the Union by breaking with monoculture and valuing other species of greater value. The food industry or the stone industry are also important sectors of our economy with different degrees of development, value integration and introduction into international markets. Finally, two areas: rescue of industrial enterprises in crisis and boosting industrial sectors with potential to consolidate and grow. And to finish, I end up going to the beginning of my intervention. For many years now, the German industrial sector has only received bad news. Since the BNG we have to make it clear that the last bad news -- very bad news -- is the current budgets of the Galician Union, budgets that continue in their policy of non-intervention, a policy that was followed during all these years of government of Fascius and that is obviously responsible, or responsible, for the destruction of employment and industrial fabric. We call them to put on their side, to break up with inertious acts that are being manifested terrible, and to drive a great deal of the Greek pact for the industry. And gentlemen of the PSOE, they once and for all derogate the labour reform of the People's Party, because yesterday, if it weren't for the character of the men and women in the vests, we would have shut down a new company in our country. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Alfonzo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Tellado Filgueira speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u110	Well, nothing new under the sun. The BNG continues to insist on that permanent whitening of everything the Socialist Party does, its government partners. They've been innovating care at that weekend meeting! You come with fantastic recipes: nationalizing companies and the Welsh electricity tariff, which, as everyone knows, would be illegal in the community context where we move, and that would in any case be a bad business for Galicia. More daring is to talk about the wood sector, Mr. Fernández Alfonzo, after being the main architects of the attempt to close Ence in Galicia. That's the reality. You must have the courage to come here to talk about the wood sector, the forest sector! Go, go, go, go!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u111	Mr. Seco, after listening to you, the summary of your intervention is clear: the arsonists come to explain to the firefighters how to put out a fire. A curtain of smoke, that's your intervention. You know, like me, that the energy policy of the Government of Spain is causing an industrial crisis not only in Galicia but throughout Spain, and that we find ourselves. And, therefore, he comes here to tell Junta what he has to do in industrial matters. You know what to do? Ask your government in Spain to take away the hands of energy policy and stop closing companies! Because that's what's happening to us right now. Look, every time you talk about industry, here in Galicia and also in the rest of Spain, you close a company. The industrial and energy transition policies of the Government of Pedro Sánchez are assuming the destruction of the Galician business fabric and the endangerment of fifteen thousand jobs, fifteen thousand jobs! Alcoa, Alu Iberica, Siemens Gamesa, the thermal power plant of the Bridges, Meirama, Ence, Vestas... do you want me to continue with the story of companies threatened by the energy policy of your government? The socialist government is condemning the Galician industry by action and by default, and they come here to offer a pact for the industry! Really? The arsonists want to teach the fire to go out! That's the summary of your intervention. It is the industrial policies of the Government that are causing situations like Vestas, Alcoa and The Bridges. It's the industrial policies of his government, of the Government of Spain, which are destroying the Galician business fabric and abandoning our industry. The industrial policies of the Government are causing the price of light to rise worldwide: for citizens, for domestic consumption, for small and medium-sized enterprises, and also for large industry. It is the energy policy of the Socialist Party, erratic and irresponsible, which leads us to this. For you, this is the fair transition, do you understand? Because it's no transition, no matter how fair. Now you were talking about the plan that we had to sign to provide funds for areas affected by the "unjust transition" of your government; but, after so many excuses from the Government of Spain, do you know how many funds this plan has? It has 90 million euros for all of Spain. Stop laughing at people. The trucks carrying the coal from the outer port of Ferrol to the thermal power station of the Bridges lost their jobs year and half a year, year and half! They've been a year and a half without work! And you come here to take a chest out of the ecological transition! Really, you have to stop taking people's hair off. We are fully aware of the difficulties facing the Greek industry, we are perfectly aware of who causes them and why. Because you want to get the medal of being the most eco-friendly government, and on the way they're leaving a lot of workers out of work, but they don't care. What's left of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? Then the party "p" will stay, because "games" are, but otherwise nothing. That's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, that's funny! What a joke for people who have lost their jobs! And you come here with sobs, slogans. Stop taking people's hair off. The German industry does not need a pact, it needs to stop attacking the central government, it needs the price of light to be reasonable, it needs direct support from the Government of Spain instead of a government that permanently drowns all companies. Companies don't leave Galicia, they leave Spain, because they don't trust or believe in the government we have. That's the reality. And you come here with smoke curtains, asking exactly what? I'm telling you, of course, don't count on us to whiten the face of the Government of Spain. Of course we have signed that pact so that funds will come to the Eume and Ferrolterra comarcas, of course we have signed that agreement. But we do not share the closure of the thermal power plant of the bridges, which is a political decision of the Government of Spain and its Government, endorsed by the Socialist Party, the PSdEG PSOE and also by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Why do you come here to say you're worried about the workers who lost their jobs? You are accomplices of that government's action. They're as responsible as they are from the Galician Nationalist Block as they are from the PSdEG PSOE. In the debate of the state of Autonomy, the president of the Union announced an industrial agenda for our community and we ask them to join that initiative. And you came here with this pact for industry. No, what you want is a pact of silence, which we stop criticizing the government that is causing this crisis. Look, we're going to develop a Welsh industrial agenda and we hope it will be supported not only by social dialogue but also by opposition parties. And the first way to support it is to match the diagnosis. It's just a trick! We have just heard Mr Arangüena, responsible for Feijóo's situation in Barreras, but he does not assume any responsibility from the Government of Spain for the situation in Navantia, which depends 100 percent of the Government of Spain! Stop fucking people, stop fucking people! They come here constantly washing the face of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. But didn't they realize it was useless, that they just kicked them in their ass because they were the PSdEG PSOE's most submissive to Ferraz's address -- because there's always someone else who can be --? Here at the end, when all of us here stop being Members, the important thing is to be able to get out in the street, look at people and tell them that from our vantage point we work to make people better and to defend Galicia's interests, not to defend a few acronyms or a character. Because I don't think you're even defending the acronyms of your party, you're only defending a character who, thanks to that "manual of resistance" has managed to become president of the Government of Spain. That's right. And you come here to talk about exactly what? If your party and government are to blame for the situation that goes through industry, not only the Galician one from all over Spain! Because the same problems faced by the Galician industry have industry in Castela and León, in Castela-A Mancha, in Estremadura, in Andalusia, in Basque Country and in Catalonia. You're a problem for Spaniards and workers. So we are asking you to join this industrial agenda that the president announced here. We have tabled a motion for a resolution in favour of that Greek agenda. You know what they did? To vote against, that's what concerns you, the Greek industry. You come here to wash your face, but the reality is that everyone is clear who is responsible for everything. Because there's no industrial crisis here, there's an energy crisis that's affecting our industry. And you come here to talk about Alcoa! But if Alcoa's problem could be solved by you two years ago and you haven't done it! And the fault of Alcoa's situation is Feijóo? But really! Mr. Seco, you can't have that much political face, you can't have it! They take responsibility. I'm sure the board can do more, the board has to do more, but let's start with a good diagnosis. Let's not come here to deceive, let's not come here to lie, there's an erratic energy policy because a government means it's the greenest in all of Europe. And it's not the greenest, it's the dumbest. Do you know what's going on? That, as the Government has no direct consequences, it doesn't matter, because whoever pays the consequences of this erratic energy policy is the workers who lose their jobs. And you come here asking for a pact for industry! Start by recognizing what the problems are and where they're from! And we can come up with a good diagnosis and find solutions between us all, and demand that the Government of Spain cease those energy policies that are wrong. And in the meantime, the BNG says he's more nationalist than anyone else, that Galicia cares about him more than anyone. All you care about is your own seat and you can be 17 or 18 years more, like Mrs. Pontón. That's the sad reality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u112	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Seco García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u113	Thank you, President. Do you know how important it will be after you get out of politics, Mr. Tellado? Of course it's important to look at people face to face after trying to do the best work for the Greeks and the Greeks, and to go live each one of their jobs, not wait for a friend's turn door to see if it solves our lives. [[Applause]] You're talking about a supposed Galician agenda that only you know, but if it's going to end up like the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, we're going to be good. We're going as good as when they promised about 20 percent of the GDP of the German industry and, no less and nothing less than 50,000 new jobs in this sector. I had already hoped to hear his mantras, Mr. Tellado; his mantras repeated day by day to satiety: the evil of the whole industrial sector is the evil Pedro Sánchez and the current price of energy. My question is, why has the industrial crisis been so quiet in 2020 with energy prices at the lowest rates in recent years, Mr Tellado? Why were we so badly industrially in 2020? Why do they introduce an initiative that calls for the immediate convening of renewable-source power stations for the acquisition of electro-intensive companies -- a next proposal that will be discussed -- and then they make moratoriums on the wind power installation? It's really a real disproposing of what you're presenting in energy industry. Despite his propaganda policy in the media, which we certainly pay all the Greeks and the Greeks, the Welsh industry is fading. With your government you were telling some of those who were in danger, I'm going to tell you what fell: R, Vulcan, Alcohol, Isowat, Alfageme, Barriers, Polygal, Perfials, Caramelo, Pescanova, Emesa Trefilería, Siemens Gamesa et cetera. With you, Mr. Tellado, supporting the Government of Feijóo. You can come here to get the back of Mr. Feijóo's industrial policy! Because we were just talking about sitting down for a galley pact by industry, and they're not even able to commit to it. There were some dates when we talked to members of the Barriers Business Committee and trade union representatives of the Vigo district of which are the contributions of the German Government to establish the production of private shipyards in southern Galicia in the face of a situation like the current one, in which Metalships, Vulcans and Barriers are without workload. What are the performances of the Galician Union, Mr. Tellado? Nothing, absolutely nothing. It is refusing to develop its industrial competences and exercising its tractor in this sector, when it is more necessary than ever to put on the table a recovery plan for the naval sector in Vigo. Where is the German Government in view of the possibilities Galicia has in the wind sector? Well, paralyzed by their absolute inability to plan our territory. In the face of the legitimate demand for Greek citizenship, its solution is to choose to paralyze the sector without any activity and thus jeopardise companies in the sector that give thousands of jobs in Galicia. He's already closed Gamesa, and unfortunately Vestas is also on his way to close. What solutions do you present to the announced Closure of Vestas, in Viveiro, beyond the criticism continues to the Government of the State, when you are not giving anything, absolutely nothing, to avoid its closure? What about the resolutions of the Reactivation Commission? It was an absolute disappointment to see the dictates that your group brought about to reactivate the industry, a set of measures aimed at making partisan politics with regard to the demands made by the Government of the State and no new ideas or interesting action by the Autonomic Administration in industrial matters, with which it is falling into Galicia in this matter. It is regrettable to see the inability of a German Government completely surpassed by the powers it should exercise and of which it prefers to escape. When you talk about the future of the San Cibrao aluminum factory -- of which you talk very often -- they act as if they were mere spectators or as if they had no competences, watching and commenting on what they do or stop doing the Government of the State as if they were political and non-manageral commentators, with an improper disloyalty of those who bet on not doing anything but could at least support those who try to save their work and jobs at the factory. Or like in the problem that the Alu Iberian workers live in, where they weren't looking for solutions when Alcoa wanted to close it, nor are they now when the intentions of the new investors are evidenced. In Xeal, the ancient Ferroatlantic of Cee and Dumbria, are unable to guarantee minimum employment for plants as established by the High Court judgment. And at the center of the Bridges they were unable to program an energy transition just before the process of decarbonization, and now they are unable, up to this day, to sign the transition agreement that the people in need of the bridge and Meirama. Get to work! From our group we offer them a pact for industry again. In his hand he's taking the offer or pursuing a wrong strategy that leads to the disappearance of the industrial sector in Galicia, except for some multinationals who don't depend on anything of his administration. We do not ask for unsolved dreams or goals, we only ask you to feel with the rest of the political and social forces to make a great pact that involves us all and that you should be captain. Once again, they decide whether they're going to do politics and manage -- as most of the Greeks and the Greeks were asked to do in the polls -- or to pursue that policy of propaganda and aggression to the Government of the State that leads to nothing but despair and loss of jobs in the industry, and raising populist options, which will end up extracting revenues from their incompetence, Mr. Tellado. So they give more solutions, they stop talking about issues that don't interest anyone, less jokes about others, and they get to work to get industry to survive in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u114	Thank you, Mr. Seco García. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal by G. P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia to declare the state of climate emergency in Galicia, activate cross-cutting policies to achieve the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, promote investment in R & D+I and become involved in the European Green Pact
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u115	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u116	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. At the same time, Cop26 is being held in Glasgow, that is, the Sixth United Nations Conference on Climate Change. In it it is decided that rest will give humanity, the international community, to the greatest problem you have today for your survival, which is the climate crisis. And when I say it's the biggest problem for humanity's survival, it's not a personal opinion or an exaggeration, it's the result of a scientific consensus on the fact that, first of all, we're not doing what we need to deal with this problem. Besides, if we don't do something already, if we don't do it very quickly, and if we don't do it with a great deal of force and intensity, humanity is geared to a global warming scenario, not 1.5 degrees, which was the limit that the 2016 Paris Conference considered to be relatively feasible for mankind, but to a warming scenario of at least three degrees, three degrees or more. What does a three-degree global warming mean? In the case of Spain, which most of the territory of the State can be virtually uninhabitable because it will be usual temperatures of 50 degrees at the end of this century. Not to mention the economic consequences on the availability of water or on the yields of agriculture and on so many other matters. That's why what's happening in Glasgow is very important and that's why there's concern, because at these international conferences there are agreements that are going to be systematically broken, and there's an increasing concern, because the consequences of climate change are already here today in the form of 50-degree peaks in Canada or Siberia, in the form of catastrophic floods in many countries, in the form of a decline, even today, of the yield of agricultural crops and a long et cetera. To give us an idea, the last time on this planet there was so much carbon in the atmosphere was millions of years ago, when the sea level was 20 meters taller and there were no human beings on Earth's face. At the plenary session on 22 December 2020, the Socialist Parliamentary Group put forward a non-legislative proposal that the Government of Galicia should agree to declare the climate emergency. You voted that no, even though a year earlier you adopted yourself in this parliament a resolution in the debate on the state of the 2019 Autonomy to exactly declare the climate emergency. A resolution that we then considered as cicada and wrong but which, at least, recognized the need to declare the climate emergency. And it turns out that in 2020, when we landed some in this parliament, we found out with wonder that you didn't even approve that statement by your government, that is, you weren't able to comply with the resolutions adopted by this parliament, which represents Galicia's popular sovereignty. So we asked you again -- as I say -- on December 22, 2020, and you -- again -- voted "no" to what this Parliament agreed to do with your vote a year earlier. That speaks well of the level that you can expect from your promises and commitments. In spite of that, we are prepared to come to an agreement with you in this matter today, because you have tabled an amendment that substantially raises the demands of our non-law proposal and we are willing to take on that amendment, with some modification because, among other things, there is some error in drafting. I told them a year ago that there were still reasons for the climate emergency statement. One year later there are even more reasons: the almost irreversible loss of cultivable land on a superpopulated planet, desertification, sea level rise, biodiversity loss, which is already called "great extinction", with indirect lethal effects or directly associated with pandemics such as coronavirus, ocean acidification, extreme weather phenomena that cause multimillionaire economic losses... massive migrations or the political and geopolitical effects of instability that all of the above suggests they already act and do not delay even a single minute the decisive and ambitious action against climate change. The year 2019 was the hottest in history in Europe and the second on the planet, and the last five years have been the hottest in history on our planet. The climate crisis is accelerating. The Paris agreements of the year 2016 are not being complied with. We're trapping ourselves, trapping our survival as a species, trapping our present and our future and our children's. That's the reality. In that reality you are advanced students, because your environmental policy is a compendium of that in the Anglo-Saxon world "greenwashing" and this is called "ecoposture", which is to pretend that something is done and not to do anything beyond appearance. Two years ago, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said we are consciously destroying systems that support our lives. A year ago it was said that our planet was broken, that we are in a suicide war with nature and that nature always attacks and does it with more and more force and more fury. He also announced a year ago that his central goal this year, already in 2021, would be to build a global coalition of words about the need to reduce emissions to zero. A few days ago at Cop26, the same secretary general of the United Nations said that "we are digging our own grave," we're digging our own grave tomb, which reminds me of the title of a musical album by The Chemical Brothers over twenty years ago called that. When the Secretary-General of the United Nations makes the climate crisis the most important issue in the current agenda, not in the future, but in the present but in humanity, it is necessary to take this matter seriously, beginning with declaring the climate emergency as we have asked a year ago. The Paris agreements of 2016 aimed to limit global warming to less than two degrees with the intention of moving forward to a reduction of below 1.5 degrees, but these objectives are overcome by the reality of country behavior and by the progress of science. Predictions are becoming more and more gloomy about the speed and effects of climate change, and they come to question our future as a species very seriously. As much as the pandemic we are experiencing at the moment and the economic and social crisis seems to us of enormous importance -- it is no doubt that they have it -- climate change is at present, throughout the history of our species, without the slightest doubt, the greatest threat to the threat facing or facing humanity, insofar as the climate determines directly or indirectly all of us and each aspect of our lives. And you, so far, have refused to declare the climate emergency, because, well, among other things, the effects of the climate crisis will affect from food production to energy, housing, water, etc., etc., and it is realigned with the rest of the planetary biophysical system, producing the rupture of ecological balances at all levels, loss of biodiversity -- as I have already told you -- fires of unusual intensity and periodicity that will affect Galicia predictably especially, extreme climatic phenomena and a long et cetera that will especially affect Spain and Galicia as coastal and climate transition zones. I've always said, when I've had occasion, that you're negationists, because they're participating in what Rajoy's cousin said, that climate change wasn't for so long, that it didn't exist. The reality is different, and science tells us with total clarity that prospects are very scary, especially the probability that refuelling cycles are triggered, feedback loops that could accelerate climate change much more. The Declaration of Climate Emergency is a movement of international scope which seeks that from public institutions take on reality, this reality that I am describing to them. Dozens of countries and cities are already declaring it or have already declared it. Spain declared the climate emergency early last year and the practice of all autonomous communities -- with some exception of communities governed by the PP -- ; Galicia was delayed and did not make any movement in this sense except to remove the Strategy against Climate Change from the box of 2005, from which it was remembered in fifteen years, nothing more and nothing less, which was reworked in 2019, announcing that Galicia would be a pioneer and a vanguard -- and these things that you say about everything you do -- in this matter. The fact is that it is neither for the assumption that Galicia, which is uniquely vulnerable to climate change, can be more serious than in other countries with a serious impact on all areas. But you refused a year ago to declare the climate emergency; we hope they change today. The positive part of this crisis is that there are the mechanisms and capacities to deal with it and that Galicia, our country, is well positioned to do so, because we have excellent conditions for renewable energy, knowledge, companies, motivation, which we should have to have as much as Spain and Galicia -- as I say -- can be especially affected by the climate crisis. We therefore call for the Declaration of Climate Emergency to be adopted in Galicia, which commits the Galician Union to activate with the utmost urgency transversal policies in all areas and government action to achieve the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as climate neutrality; to promote investment in R+D+i; to include in government actions cross-borderly the dimension of adaptation to climate change, with specific measures to limit damage; and to be actively involved in the European Green Pact, as well as firmly, with all possible strength and ambition, in the new green economy. We hope -- I insist -- that the People's Party today will vote in favour of this statement and this proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u118	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u119	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Indeed, Mr. Arangüena, you were fortunate to have matched the inclusion on the agenda of this initiative with the celebration of the summit, because at least fifteen minutes of actuality corresponded to it, because the rest was already discussed at the interpellation of December 10th and object of the motion on December 22nd. And almost a year later, November 9th, we are facing a new PSdEG initiative that is identical to the one before the debate; we return to the statements, Mr. Aranguena, to the words on the paper, to speak in abstract of commitments, to promote and include, but nothing new about the saying a year ago. But there is no problem, Mr President, because this is going to give this People's Parliamentary Group the opportunity not only to underline what has been done in this House but also in the face of Greek society. And we're going to highlight the work the German Government has just done and is doing in the fight against climate change. And I'm going to point out throughout the entire intervention to the word "do." It is true, Mr. Arangüena, ladies and gentlemen, that in the debate of the state of autonomy of 2019 a resolution was adopted urging the Galician Union to declare the climate emergency. But it's not less true that sometimes the agreements on paper remain shorter than desirable, and that's why the German Government decided to leave the paper and move on to action, Mr. Arangéna. And again I note the word "do." So, the German Government, much more flexible than you, went into action before the declarations of intent. I think it's more important to do it, to act immediately -- that's what's been done since 2019 -- that is to say, take action, not just in the last two years, but that the Galician Union has been working for more than a decade to meet European demands and put us in the vanguard. A moment ago you said that the peak in Glasgow was very important. You see, if it was so important that Galicia was there, represented by the Environmental Adviser, nothing more and nothing less, so... It's true that Galicia has not declared the climate emergency, but -- I insist, ladies -- for one reason, that the Greek Government wants to continue to do, it's been taking action for years with concrete initiatives that go beyond a mere statement. The climate emergency statements that you refer to from other countries and communities began there by 2019, Mr. Aranguena, but they were simply symbolic statements to which collectives, organizations, administrations, ecologists, universities were joining; statements that were evolving in a very short time and whose beginning no longer makes sense to return. But look if it doesn't make sense to go back to those statements that if you go to January 2020, to which the Council of Ministers approved -- take note, Mr. Arunguena, and I read textually and spatially -- to the "Employment and Environmental Emergency Declaration Agreement in Spain," it's not the same as declaring the state of climate emergency in Galicia, as the PSdEG requests. If the objective of the proposal we are debating is the commitment of public policies to climate action, Galicia is already taking place, and it is demonstrating with facts and ahead of other regions and central government. We propose from this parliamentary group no less than to approve in Galicia the same thing that Pedro Sánchez approved at the state level, the declaration to the climate emergency, but not taking steps back. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Arangüena, we assume that the PSdeG will have no problem accepting the same thing that your President Sánchez approved in Madrid. That's why the Government and the Popular Parliamentary Group prefer to defend and bet on climate action as the most up-to-date and effective expression to define the fight against climate change. The facts speak for themselves and show that the Board is committed to climate action, and I can give you many examples. For example, the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy of 2050, to which you, whenever we talk about it, produce sarpulsy or some repulsive effect, which we already know your speech, because it's the same. Now he still had his intervention on the stairs; it's the same, the same perspective; and they knew them already because reality is a totally different one. Look, in that strategy that you despise, it's 1.2 billion, that others value and recognize. And you know who? Above all, people from your party, Mr. Aranguena, who may have escaped. Because the Environment Council of the Principality of Asturias has requested the collaboration and participation of the Council of Environment of Galicia in its work in the Strategy of Climate Action. Look: what's good for a socialist government in Asturias isn't good for the Greek socialists for a government, of course, of the People's Party in Galicia; it's different, it changes a little. Then we can also continue talking about the Mayors' Pact for climate and energy, where municipalities are supported to develop their action plans, so that they have advice to improve their energy efficiency and resilience. This government, ladies and gentlemen, is doing -- and I'm not going to get tired of repeating the word "do" -- exactly what citizens ask of their political representatives, which is to put in place tangible and comparable measures that demonstrate Galicia's commitment to climate action. I want to give you a brief summary: 2010, Galicia Urban Waste Management Plan; 2016, Galicia Industrial Waste Plan; 2019, Welsh circular economy strategy; 2019, Climate Change Strategy and Energy 2050. The first study of Galician ecological footprint. It's also working on meeting sustainable development goals and the 2030 Agenda. This same year, the Waste and Contaminated Lands Act was approved. The peace of the Mayors' Pact for climate and energy. And all this will continue in 2022, where the People's Government of the Union will continue to move forward in the modern and effective management of waste and take steps forward against the struggle of climate change; steps that will be translated into the Climate Law in 2022 or at the same time that will give a definitive impetus to the Galician Climate Alliance, its own strategy to put in place a network of organizations of all kinds involved in the fight against climate change. Even today -- this morning -- the councillor met with the Galego Cluster of Environmental Solutions and Circular Economy to invite them to take part in this alliance. As for the law? Only three autonomous communities have a climate change law. And who has a commitment to have a climate law in 2022? Galicia. Galicia -- as well as the advisor in the budget appearance -- has advanced, within the framework of the European Green Pact, on Sunday at the top -- that peak of climate change that you give so much importance to -- where the advisor has advanced the master lines, the lines of this future Galician climate law, to equip our community with that own regulatory framework that allows climate neutrality in 2050 and, above all, by seeking to accelerate the preservation of natural resources and the recovery and strengthening of our economy. As you know, one of the fundamental pillars of the fight against climate change is the proper management of waste, where Galicia also goes ahead, Mr. Aranguena. The budget of the General Environmental Quality Directorate will have more than 60 million, with more than 140 million Sogama, an unprecedented budgetary effort. We also need to highlight a main axis, which is the Welsh bioresidue strategy and municipal waste 2022-2023; more than 60 million for two years of vigency to build, among other activities, three bioresidue plants and the construction or allocation of 13 transfer plants. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is still among the three communities that have dropped their emissions the most, almost 15 points below the level of the Spanish ensemble. In 2019, the 47 industrial facilities in Greece participating in the trade in greenhouse gas emissions rights issued 7.2 million tonnes of CO2 less than in the previous year. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the German Government is dedicated to doing this, and, for this parliamentary group, doing it well, although, of course, much remains to be done. These policies are the best statement of the fight against climate, the best show of action. With transversal policies, Mr. Arangüena, yes, in areas and actions of government, with a united and coordinated government, which, of course, does not need to look over his shoulder for whether he likes or bothers the shift partner; and, moreover, with a Greek government that he wants to continue to do, and that is why he came to this Climate Change Conference in Glasgow to learn. To learn a lot more and contribute to gas emission reduction; to learn -- yes, opposition lords -- but also to value what you did or what you are doing in Galicia, which was to allow CO2 emissions to be reduced by almost 24%, while in Spain it rose by 8%. In Scotland, the Councillor signed the Understanding Memorandum Under2 2021, where Galicia took the challenge of implementing its own strategies and above all to achieve the global reduction in gas emissions by at least 55 % in 2030. It's not to sign a statement, Mrs. Arangüena, it's to take on a challenge and work; to work to keep moving forward in Galicia, to promote renewable sources, to reduce emissions from the industrial sector, to promote mobility, technology, research and public dissemination of climate change. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a government of all the Greeks and Greeks aware of the need to contribute to the fight against climate change and which is not hidden. That is why we tabled the amendment to the Socialist Group's initiative. I hope, Mr Arunguena, that you will accept the amendment tabled by this group, a group in which, like the German Government, you speak with facts, with commitments, and not with mere declarations of your own intentions of what you come to speak or call "ecopostureo". No one can stand aside, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge that we have to face to preserve the planet, we are all involved. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Mouteira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u121	Good afternoon. I want to announce the affirmative vote on this proposal, although I have to say that it's a critical yes; a critical yes because -- thank Mrs. Paula Prado --. It's so critical because we think there's a lot of rhetoric in these debates, good rhetoric, and a lot of contradiction. And it's a very complex subject where there's a b face, like on the moon, a b face, a hidden face, isn't it? Of course, it's undisputed that there is a serious problem associated not only with climate change, but with a much broader phenomenon that is environmental emergency, that forecasts and forecasts are alarming, they are absolutely catastrophic, but not in the future, not in the 2050s or the 21st century, but now, and we have the recent data that talk about temperature increases in Galicia, in certain areas of Galicia, which are greater than those in the state average, and we also know that there are not only increases in temperature, but a large number of extreme weather phenomena, which are getting faster and faster. So we think that in order to properly give this debate, we must begin by denouncing the cynicism of the big states and corporations, which are responsible for the environmental crisis and the climate crisis, and they intend to go through the planet's saviors, above all. And this is also seen in these great world summits of COP, like this one of Glasgow, where it was also the Council of Galicia. I don't know if you know which is the largest delegation on that summit, but the largest delegation, with over five hundred representatives, is the oil, gas and coal lobby. That's the reality of these peaks. [[Applause]] We've seen it when Endesa bought all the media coverage of the state coincidentally with the peak of Madrid, Cumio 25. For this reason, for a large also washed face, washed in green of an economical which also participates in an exemplary manner to the board of Galicia. Because right now we're seeing greenery and ecology become a big business where green bonds also proliferate, green financial speculation, and even the bank gets green, which is the one that's never seen before. We are therefore in a cheating, cheating and calling debate. And what do the tricks consist of? The first trick is to focus attention on the consequences of the climate crisis: increase in temperature, increase in precipitation, extreme weather events, and not on causes. And the causes -- you have to say with all the letters -- are in a capitalist system of predatory raw materials and natural resources that is based on the exploitation of the planet, people and people. That's so clear. The big ones... yeah, it'll make you funny, but it's like that, it's like that. [[Murmurs.]] In the capitalist accumulation of large corporations, which they don't think about in the 2050 world, they think about their results and results account on the Stock Exchange. The second trick. The second trick is to focus attention on people's responsibility in solutions to a problem of such magnitude, with the creation of a kind of guilt and the consequent deviation of attention on those who are primarily responsible for this very serious problem. The third trick, the third trap is the social responsibility of companies, which are the most polluting and aim to save the world from voluntary, depoliticized and uncontextualized acts. And there we also have the example of Coca-Cola with its campaigns, or Ecoembes with its garbage, with all the governments there taking a look at it, to sell that they are very concerned. That is, the world's largest producer of plastics and plastic waste, Coca-Cola, sponsoring campaigns to clean the sea and plastic beaches. That's the reality. And what's the role of the board in this green party? For Junta is a great policy pusher that promotes environmental emergency and climate change, it is a great climate change factory, as we will see, and policies against nature, reforming all kinds of laws to make it easier for companies to publicize the country's natural resources. And the Junta and the PP, in this sense, is a true Trojan horse from the great economic groups that spoil the Greek resources. You're the collaborators, a sort of management of these groups, and this also explains the embraces that proliferate across Mr. Faixóo with these groups, right? Of course, you need to introduce yourselves as Greeks to make this issue more credible, but this has already been invented by the Romans, who made hospitality agreements with the natives of the Courel to make domination easier; they gave some of the natives there to be collaborators and also recruited the troops so that they could continue the conquest all over the world. This has been invented for a long time, you now fulfill this role. I'm the branch, the franchise of these great economic groups that extract our energy wealth -- they call it Iberdrola -- our financial wealth -- they call it Abanca -- our forest wealth -- they call it Ence -- our mining wealth -- they call it Sacyr, who is now opening up the San Fins mine -- our highway wealth, the beaches -- Audasa, Globalvia --. Finally, you are the factory of climate change, because they have a forest policy that goes in favour of climate change, when they promote not the multifunctional mountain, but the monofunctional mountain of the eucalyptus, when they make a waste policy and still brag about it, which is in Plistocene. Because it is the example of the book of linear policy, not of circular waste policy, it is to collect the waste, transfer it, transport it, separate it, burn it for business, by the way, of Naturgy, which is Sogama's partner. That's their waste policy; in energy selling most of the country to the highest bidder, in natural heritage promoting not biodiversity, but biouniformity and preventing the expansion of the Natura Network to protect the territory, for example. We have the lowest level of protection of the Nature Network in the state, a real shame that you come here to assume environmental policies. But this is it, isn't it? Or the recurrent threat, known, to our wetlands, to the storms, to the water reserves, for their policy of predation. Or the promotion of motorized mobility policies, instead of encouraging train, alternative transport, alternative mobility; they put the alternative mobility strategy in a box. Finally, they gave up doing the German railway force. What else do you want me to tell them? And of course, the whole thing, the square of the circle, when we think we've seen everything, is that you denounce the closure of companies as a result of the ecological transition and assume the reduction of emissions from the closure of these companies. It's just a trick! This is to study it, study it in schools. I mean, you're critical that Endesa is closed at the Bridges, but you assume the reduction in emissions from Endesa's closure. You can't blow and climb at the same time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, or something or something. [[Applause]] And, of course, like all this I just described isn't selling, what do they do? Well, they do a great cosmetic operation. This is called L'Oréal policy, Chanel number policy... well, this is point 0, point 6, point 7, Chanel, I don't know what they've invented. [[Laughter]] A big green makeup operation of... do you want to talk to Madame...? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, there's a saying -- we know that popular culture is wise -- that says, even though the monk looks green, she stays. So you're at that point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And of course, of course, what is already Mrs. Ángeles Vázquez's last popular cook? Well, introduce yourself to Glasgow and announce that they're going to make a law, of course. Yes, yes, first, of course, but in this context, we're now talking about everyone on this subject, because we're announcing a law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anyway, we'll talk about the law when it gets here, which is just a headline right now, it's just an ad, it has no content, the void, which is what you normally do in environmental policies. But the problem is, you don't have credibility. And you know why they don't have credibility? First, because in the government organization chart for climate change, they have half a general direction. It's a matter of this transcendence, and it's about average, well, one third of general direction, because it's about climate change, sustainability and environmental quality. So that already defines exactly what their priorities are. I mean, this takes a little of the time of the day of this government, that advice. Second. You have extensive reports on this issue. If we open the consulting website, the latest report on climate change and its condition in Galicia is 2016. What's wrong? That in these five years there was no need to report any changes? Third. They have a climate change strategy that is absolutely out of line, which has already been surpassed by the European Climate Law. They have to do it again in the end. Fourth. They have an operational plan of that strategy that's an empty shell, it's a bluff, it's a fraud. You have empty pages, you have budget and investment paragraphs empty. So that's not serious. And you can say that they are involved in terraplanism in environmental matters. And finally, I want to make a request to them: put the brakes on them, they haven't just swept the country through this policy of burned land, which the harder they destroy it will be to rebuild it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u122	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Or L'Oréal... nothing like Nivea for men. [[Laughter]] To make a joke, eh! [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Mouteira, you say you want to highlight the word "do." Well, there are not many of his environmental achievements in Galicia beyond propaganda. But, in any case, if you get yourself to do things from now on, well, we'll see, and welcome. And you say it's true that it was approved in the debate of the state of autonomy or that I told you it was true that it had been approved. Thank you for acknowledging that what was approved was approved and that you voted in favour. But he says, instead of declaring, you do. Well, by that same rule of three, they could breach all Parliament's agreements which do not involve an effective, measurable, quantifiable commitment which it implies to do, because you would say: we are not going to declare anything, but, as we have already done, we have failed to comply with all Parliament's agreements. Therefore, your argument is absolutely pilgrim. And you say, of course, that yes, that the Galician Union works, as always, to put us in the vanguard. You know this from the vanguard and from being free, I don't know that and I don't know what else repeats it to satiety, to the point that, if it were true, for Galicia would be Arcadia and not Galicia. But Galicia is Galicia and the vanguard of what you are talking about in environmental matters is to promote complete eucalyptization, substitution of the native Greek forest by a forest monoculture of eucalyptus; or to have the smallest Natura Network in Spain, 12% of our area declared as Nature Network, when the next community, which is Basque Country, has 20%, when the state average is 27%; or to have a tiny recycling rate compared to the objectives of the European Union, and you talk about energy recovery to cover the fact that what you do is incinerate the livelihood; or that of the 75 species in danger of extinction that is declared in Galicia have your conservation plans or recovery for 3 -- 3 -- 3 -- of those 75 species, when the law has required for a decade to have these plans. Anyway, that's his vanguard. I mean, the van for you is to be in line, in the queue truck among all the communities of Spain in environmental matters. And do you assume that the Environment Advisor went to COP26? Well, it must be a conquest for all mankind that Mrs. Environment Advisor takes a plane -- by the way, with the result of carbon emissions -- and goes to COP26... Man!, obviously I'm not going to tell you I have to swim, because I don't wish you that, especially being Melide, which is not the world capital of swimming either. [[Murmurs.]] So, let's see, what I'm telling you is that bragging about this seems absolutely ridiculous to me. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what the spokesperson for Ecologists in Action says, not this humble deputy? The spokesman for Ecologists in Action, a few days ago, about the advisor's participation, says literally -- you quote -- : "it's spepetic." I don't say so, the spokesperson of Echoxists in Action in Galicia, who also says -- I quote literally, I open again you quote -- "It is entrepreneurship that the Board assumes that emissions were reduced by 24%, when it was precisely by a fact that they stubbornly opposed, as is the fall of coal plants." Therefore, the spokesperson for Echoxists in Action in Galicia says of his performance in the subject which is epic in the case of his adviser's participation in COP26 and is entrepreneurship what he did there and his statements in the matter of everything you say on this subject. With regard to the BNG, I am grateful for the positive vote, but I must rebut that accusation of goodness, which, in any case, prefers that of evil. Goodness is not to acknowledge that Galicia has to replace 70% of its energy production with renewable sources to achieve climate neutrality, with enormous titanic effort, I would say that this is supposed to be 70% of its energy production with renewable sources. Do you know what that means? He cannot assume the Galician Union, because it was the closure of the Meirama thermal power plant and the paralysis of the bridges to which he implied that greenhouse gas emissions in Galicia would be reduced by 24 %, according to the report just published by Ecoloxists in Action. This means that by the end of 2019 nearly the goal of the Energy and Climate Change Strategy 2050 of the Union has already been reached, which is 24.6% of the decline in emissions by 2030, and so it is also necessary to review the objectives of that strategy, as you implicitly recognize in your amendment. I mean, his strategy was practically obsolete at the same time it was approved. We cannot and should not lose sight of the fact that climate change is in relation to and is part of the gradual collapse of ecosystems that began to accelerate in the 20th century and is accelerating much more in the 21st century. Many scientists claim that the pandemic we suffered last year, and we're still suffering, is more of that huge global ecological imbalance that threatens our future as a species. In any case, if for you the problem is that, instead of "climate emergency declaration" there is a text that puts "climate emergency declaration," if that's the problem for you, so last year we haven't approved our proposal, we're willing to accept its amendment, which substantially or virtually millimeterically coincides with what we propose in our non-law proposal. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u124	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and three other Members, on the commitment to the establishment of a study committee to address a proposal for a reform of the financing system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u125	This proposal has been amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u126	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. It's unquestionable that we're at a time of change; in a changing context, who stays still behind. So we understand from the BNG that the only way to get out of here is to move and act. And with the controlled health crisis there are debates relevant to Galicia, so moving is urgent. One of the most important is that of the financing model and the economic relationship with the state, which has been debated by some frozen since 2014, first by the People's Party and then by the Socialist Party. The pandemic, the copper-19, delayed it again, but also served to ensure that the recognition of the current model's insufficiency is already unanimous. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today we insist on this proposal, because it is key to the future of the country. Galicia cannot remain passive and absent from negotiations to replace the current financing system, which cannot depend on pre-pandamy analyses, which have remained obsolete, nor is it simply an excuse for Mr. Feijóo to make his balances in the state PP by meeting with the world less with whom he should meet, which is with the representatives of the Greeks and the Greeks, who we are in this chamber. That is why we are bringing this initiative today, to stress again that this parliament must be in keeping with the circumstances. So what we are asking for is as necessary as it is simple: to compromise, prior to the corresponding regulatory requirements, the creation of a specific study commission to address a country proposal in the face of the reform of the financing system. I insist that we do not come up with a concrete proposal as to what this funding system should be for debate. We do not bring the proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block, which we have, but what we propose is something that is so simple -- but so, I insist, necessary and urgent -- that this parliament, which represents the plurality of the Greeks and the Greeks, works and acts and debates around a question that will be absolutely decisive for the future of the country. Because -- we insist -- without financial self-government is absolutely impossible for political self-government to exist. We have the necessary instruments and only lack the political will, and of course this political will on the part of the Galician Nationalist Block, and we also have some reflections that I would like to take advantage of to share here. The first is that freezing since the year 2014 of this debate cannot lead us to it as if we were at that moment and nothing has changed since then until today. Since 2014 basically by the Board what we have had was headlines, especially as they governed their own. More recently, in the previous legislation, once there was a change of state rule, there was some movement on the part of the board, but it was basically reduced to appointing an expert person for the commission that was opened within the scope of the state; not even if the conclusions of that commission were analysed and there was only one appearance of that by that then still general director, Mr. Corgos, who today is advisor to Fairy. In the previous legislation, without going further, the forces of opposition, singularly the Galician Nationalist Block, but also others, have repeatedly brought initiatives to this chamber on this issue and there was in particular a motion that agreed to the People's Party and the Socialist Party, but today is absolutely obsolete. So we insist: it is not assumed that there is no debate, a more concrete analysis in this country, and now, that we are in a new context, the pandemic has shown the seams of a system that doesn't work; and that even the board itself recognizes it in the memory of the budgets that we are processing in this chamber, where it is assumed that this insufficiency is not only from the pandemic period but also from the broader one. Now, in this current context, we also have other issues that mark the context. On the one hand, we know that we are already going to go back to the year 2023 to an agenda of the deficit, a deficit by course that continues to catch the state more than would correspond to it; it is worth the example that we have been, we are in a health crisis and those with health competences have six times less deficit capacity than the state itself. We're also going to a context where it's likely that we're going to have less income for the future, for the fall of extraordinary income and also for the economic crisis. And there's a clear fiscal decentralization; we see it in proposals that are on the table about tax issues and we see it in facts like what happened to the issue of inheritances in life. So what we want to say about this since BNG is that the keys that today will have to negotiate this funding system are new and therefore a broad, new and ambitious process is needed. The second thought that we wanted to leave here on the table is that it has to be a debate in Greece, from Galicia and to defend the interests of this country. And for that, we have to abandon once and for all that perspective that exists from the state forces, that absolutely false and scientific mantra that Galicia is small and poor and depends on the State's charity. That's something that's not supported by the data. It's not just that we say it, but that the Greeks and the Greeks are obviously working, paying our taxes, contributing to the state and nobody gives us anything. And with the data, for example, of the last budget settlement of 2019 we can see it practically meridianly. If Galicia has a real tax capacity for which the state collects more than EUR 13,000 million, we receive only a little more than EUR 8.600 million back. So this means that our country loses a funding capacity of more than 4,000. And it's not exceptional. If we see the liquidations of 2018, 2017, etc., there is always that fan between 4,500 and 5,000 million euros that our country no longer perceives. So it's something structural, the fruit of a model that is based on centralism. And this leads to the third reflection. This model is, in short, a democratic anomaly, because the kidnapping of resources by the State prevents us from covering our needs and competences. On this 40th anniversary of the Statute of Self-Government, we see repeatedly great statements in this parliament, but at the time of truth what we see and make history is that for these forty years what we saw was everything tied and well tied, in a bad business called decentralizing spending but not decentralizing income. Therefore, the Union, which has competence in areas such as health, as education, as well as dependence, does not have sufficient resources, because we have a system that decides that the State collects resources, has the key to those resources and decides without consensus how much it gives us. The result is obviously not enough and the consequence of centralism is to the detriment of the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks. And it's a good example that self-government or lack of self-government and sovereignty, because it's also talking about things to eat. With the alleged decentralization of competence, there were no changes that would guarantee those who are responsible for maintaining those services or sufficient resources, nor any other element that we consider very relevant, that is to have capacity for a model and a strong fiscal policy that helps to sustain them. That didn't work and there's consensus -- I insist -- about many of the evas. For two examples, there is a consensus around it that it does not compensate for the impact of population dispersion, which in our country is particularly accused, or of aging, for example. And so we understand from the BNG that with the positions of everyone, that we know they're different and diverse in many respects, yet there is room for dialogue and also for agreement, and the forum must be this parliament. We are speaking in this parliament, in this chamber, on a specific commission, for example, that part of the 100 percent of the tax collection that the state makes in Galicia must return to Galicia. For example, we are talking about concrete proposals to ensure the coverage of health, education, dependence, of those services that are not covering the real cost. Or we're talking, for example, about increasing the regulatory and management capacity for taxes would give us more opportunities to do so. Or if, for example, it is necessary to introduce new variables into the financing system that would impose other differential costs that our country has, for example, the provision of services to residents abroad, at its time to returned emigrants, and a long et cetera. There are many issues that are open, there are many needs, besides having a strong position in the state to negotiate this issue, and so far what we see is that People's Party which, despite pointing the rest with the defendant's finger, is installed in short-pracism, does not have an ambitious roadmap in this field and we continue to see, as it was here today morning, that People's Party of the Not. It is the People's Party who has been blocking this chamber, in this country, this debate since 2014, first because they were ruling their own, now we infer that it must be because they don't want to disturb theirs in Madrid, but those who lose are Galicia. And in view of this, the only thing that has changed since then to today in the Nationalist Block of Wales is that today we are more, more coherent and stronger and our way of doing things, even though they are upset and they are particularly angry this week, because it is still the same, which is to bring proposals to this country, to bring proposals to this parliament to move forward on a matter that is as important as the financing system. That's why today we bring another proposal which is that of itself, that of itself to give value to this parliament and not to do what you did with other commissions that did not want to push or that did not directly block, a yes to politics as a dialogue and one also to leave behind that unreal photo, that picture that fits so much with that image of deep Galicia that we condemned in this parliament fifteen days ago, that unreal picture of a small, subsidiary and poor Galicia, and finally think of a large Galician, gives of its resources, and that this serves to solve the problems of the Galicians and the Greeks. [[Applause]] And that is, in short, what we are going to vote on this initiative, and therefore we hope to have the support of all the groups of this chamber and to have a specific commission in which to address something so important to our future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Group of the BNG brings a GNP which deals with an important issue, a fundamental issue, a country matter, a fundamental pillar of the building of the State of Self-Government and a decisive factor for the maintenance of the State of Welfare and the progress of our Autonomous Community, a question on which I am sure that we all and all of the Members here today agree. And I'm sure we agree that we all want the greatest funding for our Community. But we should also agree that the three groups of this chamber, which we represent to the vast majority of the Greek citizenship, should seek consensus, which, in the face of the cresparation that try to continue to feed some politicians with high responsibilities, should approve this constitution of this study commission within the current regulatory framework to reach a consensus position, which legitimizes the Greek Government in the negotiation of the new funding framework. I'm going to give my own the words of the previous advisor to Fairy in the last debate that took place in this chamber about funding, which was at the end of 2017, and by an interpellation made by our parliamentary group. And Mr. Martínez said in that question, "I insist that we not focus on negotiations as a auction, to see who takes the most money." And I would like the Government of Greece to have those funds in place when negotiating the new financing system for our Community. The model currently approved was adopted in 2009 and incorporated a review at five years, in 2014, which was postponed -- as my predecessor said well -- for various causes. It's a model that, imperfectly but powerfully, responds to spending needs more than tax capabilities. It incorporates a strong redistributor component and hence equalization in the treatment of citizenship in the territory. A model that already takes into account cost items such as dispersion and demand such as population aging when defining needs, with weights reflecting, although biased, the weight of the various cost functions. A model that guarantees a certain autonomy would tax communities, although -- we also have to say it -- in an unequal way between them. Thus, the common system communities have regulatory capacity on traditionally handed down taxes and the IRPF, tax management capacity in most of them, and it counts in addition to an own tax space. This is obviously not a perfect model, of course it is better and of course we socialists agree to get filled in this debate. But it is a positive model both in terms of equity, since there are differences between communities that are not explained by the estimated expenditure needs, as well as the reinforcement of the financial autonomy of communities. During the years of vigil, coincident with the years of the great recession, autonomous communities experienced a serious financial shortage problem, mainly due to the great fall of the collection in contrast to the remarkable rigidity at the expense of the communities. This problem was aggravated by the Central Government's intention, particularly from 2012 onwards, to focus the necessary adjustment on the fall in expenditure and the allocation of a share of the deficit authorized by the Central Government above its participation in consolidated expenditure. In this way, the State, with Mariano Rajoy at the front, has not prevented the fall in the liquidity of the autonomous communities, with the consequent deterioration of public services and with the consequent deterioration of people's attention. In the great recession Mariano Rajoy's Government prioritized counting over people, and austerity had serious consequences for citizenship as a whole. He increased family spending in the face of less protection in all areas, cut spending on public services, particularly in health care, education and social services, and first appeared a new working class, the poor working class, which, despite having a job, did not allow him to meet his basic needs. Faced with this neoliberal vision of the economy applied in the governments of Mariano Rajoy in the State and Niñez Feijóo in Galicia, the progressive government of Pedro Sánchez, in the face of the crisis caused by the coward-19, which triggered not only a health crisis but also an unprecedented economic crisis and social crisis, put people over account and employed State funds, as well as these funds negotiated in the European Union, so that autonomous communities -- also ours -- had an extraordinary fund on the margins of the autonomous financing system; a transfer of 13,486 million euros, with the aim of cushioning the effects of the cave-19 crisis on regional finances, assuming the state once more the cost of the pandemic and guaranteeing liquidity to autonomous communities so that they could provide essential services of quality, funds that were transferred to our entire Autonomous Community. In 2021 they came from the State Government over 1,800 million euros extra for our Community, to shield the public accounts. And with these funds and those coming from the European Union, we have had the most expansive accounts in history, to meet the most affected sectors and the most vulnerable people, adding the increase in the minimum interprofessional wage, the implantation of the minimum income vital and the large mattress for the workers and workers in our country, who through the ERTE did not lose their jobs, guaranteeing them a minimum income. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we'd like to know if they've already distributed that consensus fund, which two months ago was still in the pocket of Galicia's own board. Well, in the accounts for this year 2022, which, as you well know, we are in the debate of the same, between the transfers of the state and the transfers of European funds, Galicia's accounts will again be the second highest, with a similar count last year, because again the State will not allow the accounts of the Autonomous Community to fall and, therefore, will not allow anyone to stay behind. We have a specific share of EUR 3,9 billion to cover the negative liquidations of the year 2020, to avoid creating treasury tensions in autonomous communities in this exercise. The month of the 2017 VAT, when Minister Montoro in the Government of Mariano Rajoy caused that month to be transferred to the following year and forgot to include it. This budget will also be EUR 805 million of European Structural and Investment Funds in the 2014-2020 financial framework, funds that have not yet been implemented by the Galician Union. It will also include EUR 507.7 million from the recovery and resilience framework, EUR 22.34 million from the European Social Fund React-EU, and final government transfers, mainly for employment policies, housing, fight against gender violence, R & D+i and to meet the tourism sector, among others. We must also add the resources provided in the general government budget for this year to Galicia at EUR 1.074.7 million, 8.3% over the total region. And also the European funds announced by the Government of Pedro Sánchez for the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, which for Galicia account for €3.150 million more to advance social, economic and territorial cohesion. That's why it's not the same when it governs the right than when we rule the socialists; while the right has always been concerned about timing, the socialists are concerned about caring for people so that no one will stay behind. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, yes. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] At the end of 2016 and early 2017, the Socialists brought an interpellation, and then a motion, to this chamber in which it was discussed -- it was the last debate that had been held, and it also referred to my predecessor in the word -- about self-financing. The truth is, it's rather curious that at that time the socialists, with the vote obviously in favour of the People's Party, adopted a number of points, except the first one. And the truth is, it's also curious that both the Galician Nationalist Block and the Tides at that time voted against this motion we betrayed the socialists. The truth is, we know that at this point in time the debate has changed, because circumstances have also changed, but basically many of the criteria that we were currently proposing continue to defend them at this time. I'd like to know -- probably the deputy coming out here from the People's Party could answer us from that agreement that was taken in 2017 -- which has been done by the Galician Union. Why hasn't anything moved to this camera for your knowledge and debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u131	...by the groups represented in this chamber? Because we see a president of the Galician Union who is very interested in holding meetings with other self-governments on the side of the state government, we suppose that to follow this bronca dynamics, to go against Pedro Sánchez within a partisan confrontational tactic, which tries to cover up the poor management of the Galician Union, the failure of a roadmap, to hide a budget execution rather than improveable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u133	...and belittle the indispensable, agile and necessary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u134	Thank you, thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u135	...contribution of the Government of the State.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u136	Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Indeed, we are debating something atypical in a plenary, which is the possible impulse to a study commission to analyze Galicia's position in reforming the system of self-financing. I'm saying it's a bit atypical because if there's anyone who knows the regulations of this camera, it's the Block. The Block knows perfectly well that the study committees are set up at the Speaker's Board, and now they say we're blocking debates. If they don't even take him to the Speaker's Board, which is where these issues must be raised, because we could have spoken or we could have blocked the commission or not. But you bring it to the full, I suppose you're in your right, I suppose you want to make it visible, I suppose you're hoping to be able to say things that the PP does very badly and you want to do it here in the full, but there's certainly here a first question that calls me a lot of attention and, in fact, I read what we're going to vote for, what the Block asks for: that the German Parliament adopts by resolution compromise, prior to the corresponding regulatory requirements, the creation of a study commission. Well, there's nothing stuck here, it's just that you didn't think about it; so, if you don't think about it, it's hard to block it. Even more interesting than reading the initiative, the motion for a resolution, which is much more interesting, is reading the explanatory statement, which is why this GNP is justified. He's got a prejudice. To begin with, it says: it's obvious that strong centralization in the Spanish state, where the central government exercises control over revenues raised in Galicia -- well, that's a lie, is that it's falsehood, which can be out of ignorance -- I'm not saying that everyone has to be aware of how fiscal federalism systems work in the world -- but the fact is that Spain -- I don't know if you know and if we don't, we pass on information -- it's the most decentralized country in the financial sense of the whole European Union, much more than Germany, much more than Austria, much more than Italy, of course, and let's not say that the countries that are centralized. It's the fifth most decentralized country in the world; it's Switzerland, the United States, Canada and Sweden. So we're in the country most decentralized in terms of financial autonomy both of expenditure and income regulation and it turns out we're in a centralised country -- a prejudice. We're still reading, and they say the government has had a worrying lack of proactivity. Well, this is fake. The Fiscal and Financial Policy Council has been working on this issue for three years, working on a document we have agreed with the Socialist Party, which you have opposed because you defend a coupon for Galicia. That commission, moreover, had a technical task before, and in this Chamber we agreed with the expert who represented Galicia in that debate, Mr. Santiago Lago Peñas, Professor of Vigo Economy, who voted the Socialist Group, the People's Group, the two majority groups of the House at that time, with the abstention of the Tides, and logically with the vote not of the Galego Nationalist Block. Then, once the technical report -- which is public and known -- was finished, there was a committee of technicians from the various departments of the estate at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Board that continued to work. And all of a sudden there was -- as you know -- two electoral processes, a motion of censure, and each one can find out who wants the delay in the process of self-reforming. I think something has to do with what allies most of the Socialist Party Congress do. But, well, the case is that, in fact, the subject is still pending. But neither are the positions of this camera nor what it has done to Junta, which is a lot, and which culminates in meetings with other autonomic presidents. Mrs. Rumbo, the truth is that it seemed to me very worrying about your intervention, even more disturbing than Mrs. Presas's. How can you criticize the presence of several socialist presidents, who share the concern about the system of self-reform, self-financing, Galicia saying that it is not and you appear here saying strange things about it? On the other day, the president said it's striking that it's easier to agree with the socialist president than with the Socialist Group in Galicia to defend Greek funding. Well, that can get rid of what you said, and we're in time to change, of course, we're in time to change. We continue to read the initiative and say that the groups -- in this case the Socialist Group and the People's Group -- practice negationism, because they say -- and you reiterated this data in your intervention -- that the state collects 13 billion euros in Galicia and delivers us to the funding system 8,000. I'm so sorry that the new address of the Block makes the accounts of the old -- the old address of the Block -- because these accounts don't understand them. For you the state does nothing in Galicia; here there are no highways, there are no airports, there are no ports, there are no police, there is no Civil Guard, there is no army, there is no transfer of social security, there is no maintenance of the State apparatus, there is no Social Marine Institute, there is no Ministry of Foreign Affairs protecting migrants; and, of course, there is no debt, all that was the ERTE -- which was owed -- because this, of course, is not spent in Galicia. Well, the subject is much more complex, even on the income side, and for that, there is a technique, complicated, a scientific methodology, which is what is known as tax balances, and it turns out that a lot of these have been done. And on all fiscal scales it comes out that Galicia benefits from the general system of self-financing, both from what it perceives per inhabitant and, above all, from the adjusted population. It is true that less than other communities, it is true that this declines with the passage of time, and it is true that we will have to analyze it. But what you can't say here is that Spain is left with a tax dividend from Galicia, because it's fake, and all the figures reveal it like this. In the debate of the state of Autonomy, I gave him a data that you didn't seem to appreciate very much. It's just that in 2018 Galicia had a per capita GDP that was 89.8% of the Spanish average and instead on available income -- which is to take away taxes and add up transfers -- Galicia is at 93.9; it's 4 points of difference. What does that mean? That the welfare state in Spain works. And you're here to talk about Galicia asking for quality. What's working is the state of well-being. And about what a party that says on the left comes here to question the welfare state, which redistributes personal income and territorial income, well, well, to me what I think is that you have a huge confusion. Because I can understand, from a selfish point of view, the nationalism of the rich in the financial sphere, but the nationalism of those under the middle income is not to defend Galicia with the heart and head, that is to defend it with the sense and, of course, to harm the Greeks, who would suffer more from the heart if we have the funding that you preach. [[Applause]] Because you're really asking, in form, that's not right, introducing into exposure and prejudice justification, like we're very centralized, denying the evidence that there's activity with respect to self-financing reform, denying the complexity of tax balances with those accounts that would evidently suspend 1st of autonomous funding at any Spanish university, and also denying all this, you come to a conclusion that's curious, right? In the explanatory statement you are asking for is a study commission but you know what the result is: a new economic relationship that blinds self-government capacity. The same thing Mrs. Pontón said: we want an economic concert like what they have in Basquedi or Navarra that gives us the key to our money. Well, the concert with Euskadi and Navarre is the convention, but at last it doesn't matter; total, even because it's the same. Well, we're -- I think -- a little more conscious than the Socialist Group about the deficiencies in the current funding system, and there's data from Cedea that say that adjusted funding is 100 and that there are communities that have the best and others that have the worst -- so we're not directly affected by the system, but we're not benefited either. But the truth is, you don't take the problems into account, in general -- so to speak -- related to demography. If there are a few children in a school, there has to be a school and there is therefore an additional expense that cannot be counted as a student. Because, indeed, in Galicia the situation is different. We spend four times more on student displacement to schools because of the dispersion of the population. As for aging, because 65 years of age in Galicia is 25% of the population, and in Spain it is 19%, but it turns out that the age of 65 is half of the cases of hospitalization in any Spanish health system and 62% of medical prescriptions. So this implies that demographics, both below and above, influence funding. And, therefore, we have spent time defending -- as we have agreed with the Socialist Group at the time -- a financing system that guarantees the system's adequacy, which takes into account that resources are given by necessity and not by fiscal capacity, which wants there to be similar funding across Spain because we believe that the per capita adjusted funding must be equal throughout Spain and, of course, that it maintains autonomy so that we have the capacity to decide on taxes and improve -- not redistribution, though also -- the efficient allocation of resources. And, of course, we defend a method of multilaterality in negotiation. Well, at this point, you ask yourself, and I'm actually going to confess to you that I've had so few doubts about voting in a non-law proposal. The first question I ask is whether this commission is worth it. Will the Opinion Block change if the experts say it's a damage to the coupon or will they continue to defend the coupon? It's a question I ask myself. Or, for example, I also wonder whether the Socialist Group, who today came to defend the kindness of Mr. Sánchez's very progressive Government without making the slightest criticism of the problem of the system of self-financing that is in force, will be something combative for once and will defend Galicia's interests in the fields where I have just said. I wonder if it's worth it, because I really don't see it, I haven't just seen it. However, if it seems to you -- so that there's proactivity in the House and they don't say that we've come to read papers -- I think I can vote that yes, we can vote that yes to your proposal, only putting a condition on it. When you deny that nothing has been done, you don't recognize everything you've done. We may be late. I don't think they're able to do it so fast, but there are announcements that in a month we can have a proposal on the table; therefore, the commission must be quick. We agree to do a study commission now, immediately, to do these parliamentary procedures, which if you had been brought by your regulatory channel as well, were already resolved, because we were already in the constitution of the committee. So we can do a commission, bring in experts, and then, of course, every stick that holds its sail. I believe that from there, if we are not really negationists, that is, if we don't discuss what the experts of a subject tell us, economists who have been working on self-financing for years and years, if we all stand up for Galicia, we can reach at least an approach, an agreement on the basis of the financing system that we must ask for in the reform of the financing system; otherwise, no. And so it's up to you. If you want there to be a commission, we are delighted to make those formal requirements, which you have met in this debate, so that there is that commission, always and also -- I would appreciate you to mention this -- we've all agreed that it has to be a commission -- because it's also easy to convene experts because this subject has been very tripped -- by the end of the year, substantiation of appearances and some sort of agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u138	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I appreciate the willingness of dialogue that expressed the socialist voicer, although I do not share some of the examples that were put here on the table and that we believe they sink, well, in a different view of the country and the state. In particular, the example of IVE I think is not the right one, because precisely the example of what happened with the IVE of 2017 shows us how we should start from a mistrust point of view. Because in the end we warned that this framework of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council was not working, which so much likes the People's Party to appoint permanently, and Galliza had to go to the courts, by the way, with delay as to when we started to put on the table that would be the inevitable step. In any case, I appreciate the matter. Mr. Pedro Puy, first of all, I am grateful that at least on this tour he says he is atypical, although I disagree because we have brought this debate on other issues of this formula -- it is true that not on a regular basis, in a timely manner -- when some topic we considered that it required this advance step in the interests of consensus, for example in the previous legislation on the Committee on Boxes. And, of course, we bring it because it seems important to us. We're grateful that at least this time we're not told that it's anti-regulation after I have the visa and pleasure of the lawyers and lawyers of this camera. In any case, we say to him, "Vow in conscience! We bring this proposal because we understand that this is the place to debate... vote in conscience! [[Murmurs.]] What are we going to tell them? In the end, there would be nuances, yes; they usually vote in conscience, because maybe I'm more concerned than I was. [[Murmurs.]] The question is: we are the only ones we ask for is a minimum of honesty to the People's Party. If you are going to give yourself a commission to do what they did, for example, with the Committee on Boxes, or to impose a part result, as it seemed to infer from Mr. Pedro Puy's intervention, we would certainly like it not to be with that intention. If it's with constructive intent, we'll be there, because -- I insist -- the Galego Nationalist Block here is not bringing the coupon law or a specific proposal, as we did at other times, to give up that debate; and we do not renounce our strategic objective, Mr. Pedro Puy. Now, also, German nationalism, as well as in other debates about the financing system, has been there to bring us closer to the limited framework in which we move. I know you like caricature as thrown into the mountain, but of course that doesn't work. So if you're in favour of this matter, then we vote in conscience and reach a consensus. Now, what's not worth to us is the argument, a little tricky, that, of course, we're late because we bring it through this mechanism. Because you know that this was a proposal you made 15 days ago to Mrs. Pontón, Mr. Feijóo. You know perfectly well that this is a proposal that also went to the debate of the State of the Nation, and you have vetoed that proposal. In the debate of the nation's state, it wasn't being put on the table that you're doing according to the dome; any day -- given the reactions they sometimes have before the central government -- they're going through the left and they're going through the degree of sovereignty as well. But that was not the case. So this is the question that is on the table; and, of course, if you yield, as we will also yield to a commission that is productive. Now, before I run out of time, I wanted to comment on some questions. You're talking about the lack of centralization of this state and the fact that we speak out of ignorance. Look, no, what we're doing is political valuations, just like I suppose you were yesterday -- despite the confusion I saw in CRTVG's news -- I knew perfectly well that the Nationalist Block is the Galician Nationalist Block, although it seems to be unclear in the news. In any case, we do what we do is a political assessment that, of course, in the light of it: that in these forty years of alleged autonomy and alleged decentralization, what has been decentralized was expenditure; income, no. And the proof is that we didn't have enough resources to deal with such important areas as health, such as dependence or teaching. And we can set concrete examples of health. What does the Sergas General Account tell us year by year? That this system is insufficient. The same with regard to proactivity, which I suppose will be a subjective issue, but it's a bit ironic that you say you might be late for this when you haven't moved debates from the conclusions of the forums that were opened in the state to this parliament, to see what was the Greek reaction and the reaction of this parliament, and when this parliament didn't have another role because you didn't want it. And the same question about the perspective we have of tax balances and other areas. Of course, who has an outlook that there is charity to this country is the state forces, it's not the Greek nationalism, what you're defending is that this country is precisely older; the Galicians and the Greeks quoted, we pay our taxes, we contribute to the State's archives and, therefore, we're not asking for anything that is not ours. That's our goal: a fairer deal. And every time this pandemic also did what it did, it was that some and others recognized that the financing system was not enough, and it wasn't enough within the pandemic and it wasn't enough to broaden the focus. So I trust that all the forces of the House, too, trust the possibility that there may be an agreement on a commission, a work plan. We in a hurry and effort will not be. I think we've also demonstrated this in the Reactivation Commission, that it's finally closing -- you can deny it with your head -- it's because the Galician Nationalist Block before the People's Party blockade has introduced a dictatorship and reactivated that Reactivation Commission -- it's worth redundancy --. Of course, it won't be in a hurry on the calendar. Now, we warn you that we understand that it must be a calendar and a work plan with generosity on all sides and without a pre-established conclusion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u141	Because just as we are not going to expect the entire parliamentary arc to take on our proposal for maximums, you do not want to present us with a closed question, and that the others assume as their own. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u142	The PSOE amendment doesn't accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u143	Yes, the amendment of the Socialist Party that talks about the current framework, which we understand is this German Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u144	You don't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u145	...we understand that we do. We have no problem accepting it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u146	Oh, take it! Okay. Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union for the recovery of the land currently occupied by Ence in Lourizán, Pontevedra, in compliance with the additional third provision of the Coastal Management Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u147	There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to this non-law proposal. [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its representative Paloma Castro Rey, through its spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Welsh Parliament urges the Gounta de Galicia, within the framework of the Bureau of dialogue for the future of Ence, in which all related administrations are present, to carry out the following actions:Assess the content of the objective report that is being drawn up at the University of Vigo. Impulse within the possible locations a major industrial project of the Galicia forest sector.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u148	To formulate the non-law proposition has the word Mr. Bará has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u149	I was just waiting to see if they're done talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u150	No, they're there fixing another matter. Give it forward. It's okay. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] There are small mails that are normal at this time. Nothing's going on, either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u151	Well, in the morning we talk about disloyalty, manipulation by the board of Fegamp reports, of the Fegamp technical meetings. And this is really a game of apprentices compared to the mistress -- it can't be called otherwise -- of the use, of gross and indecent manipulation that made the Board of Galicia, the chairman of the board of Galicia, Mr. Rueda, Mr. Conde, of a report of the Consultative Council of Galicia on the possibility of enlargement of the land of the Port of Marín, which was the subject of what this report was about, not about the continuity and permanence of Ence on those lands. This is an example of a book by fakes news. It's an example of a book of creation of an alternative reality that was, moreover, categorically denied by the Advisory Council. And I'm going to read to them the press headline on October 22, "The Advisory Council says it's legal to include Ence in the Port of Marín." This was the version filtered by the Board by manipulating the Advisory report. And four days later the Ser Chain, Radio Pontevedra, published this news: "The Consultative Council of Galicia makes it clear that the future of Ence depends on the Supreme Court." In clarifications to Radio Pontevedra, the Council states that if the High Court's ruling legalizes the extension, Ence may continue in Lourizán, but it maintains the criterion of the National Audience and annuls the extension -- textual quote of statements by the Advisory, "Ence would have to close its installations in Lourizán, even if the land became dependent on the Port of Marín, because the judgment had to be executed." That's what the consultant said. And the Junta is wrong by lying, deceiving, manipulating a report from the largest consultative body in the Community of Greece to try to deceive people, deceive citizenship and also deceive factory workers with the false illusion that this report could open the door to the residence of Cence on those lands. And the report doesn't say that. The report says only, to a consultation that makes the Port, that the port lands could be extended to the lands occupied by Ence, once the Ence disappears, but not to include the Ence on those lands. Look how far this stupid manipulation of a report comes! By the way, it was a weather report, because it took a week... of course, there was a rush because Mr. Faixóo was going to Madrid on the 22nd meeting with the Minister of Miteco and he had to take a report under his arm, even if it was a fake and cheated report. Therefore, part of a strategy in which the People's Party and the Galician Union of confrontation and opposition are in place again; of confrontation with the central government and of opposition to the municipal government of Pontevedra. A totally failed opposition because they've been failing for twenty-two years in that attempt to put down the municipal government, using all sorts of artimagins. They have no limits, nothing is cut. And now we're in another phase. You guys are trying to pull the gum, aren't you? They stretch the chicle, they stretch the gum of Cence, from the stay of Cence there, but there's already a judgement of the National Audience that is categorical, which clearly says what happens and what's legal, that that extension has been unlawfully granted. By the way, all he understood was that he seemed to be the municipal spokesman of the People's Party in Pontevedra, Mr Domínguez, who said that indeed the extension was wrong and that the sentence was categorical and indisputable. But you guys haven't understood this yet, have you? And that's why they spread the gum with the intention of confusing, with the intention of tricking and tying, instead of assuming reality and getting to work towards the future. But no, you're still in the past. And what they have to do is to act as a government, as a real government in this country, and not as the puppets of Ence, the puppets of a private company. In addition, they have to exercise their environmental responsibilities, land management, maritime or industry, and start developing these skills and spending their energies, not opposing them; spending their energies on finding solutions, not creating problems. Because, in addition, we are faced with an opportunity right now and we have to anticipate, we have to earn time; we cannot wait for things to decide in other judicial instances and not have the capacity to react. Because there may be two scenarios here. The first scenario, which is the fastest, might be that the Supreme Court did not accept Ence's appeal. This could take three or four months, and this would put us in a lockdown situation at the factory, the dismantling of the factory. And the other option is that if you accept the appeal and we go to a Supreme's sentence, which may take a long time, which is customary in these cases, two or three years. But in this case too, it would be good to start to anticipate, to move forward and to seek solutions; to think about the key to the future and to think about great; to think about Galicia in large, the forest sector in large, the river of Pontevedra in large, the country in large. And for that, two things have to be done: The first one is looking for a new placement. We've already told you here as an active, passive, reflective, circumflex, but you don't understand. It's a new placement for a large industrial complex of wood-derived products that doesn't have to be just the factory that's now in Lourizán, which has to at least close the cycle and also look for other uses within the bio-economy, within a logically conception of multifunctional gale mountain, not only designed for monoculture, for one single use. There is a great potential for growth, in addition to public participation and participation in the Galician forest sector; there is a great opportunity that we have to take advantage of. Because, in addition, there is now a possibility of financing extraordinary funds to bet on these major projects. And for that, we have to do a study, an ambitious study. We think it's a mistake to study that is currently being considered with the University of Vigo, but, in any case, welcome to be, it's a step taken. And the second question is to start working on the recovery of Lourizan's land. By the way, fulfilling what is foreseen in both the Land Management Guidelines and the Coastal Management Plan approved by the Galician Board in 2011, which was not invented by the BNG. These are land management rules that need to be complied with and which clearly say that there can't be followed by the factory, that we have to recover these lands, that we have to do an area of environmental and landscape improvement, that we have to make a management plan on these lands. And who has to do it logically is who has the powers to manage the territory and the environment, which is Galician Union. So the logic would be -- as we asked for in this proposal -- to start working with the other administrations, in this case, the Central Government and the Pontevedra Town Hall, in that plan of the future, in those studies of those options to recover and regenerate those lands. This is the proposal we bring here. It's about thinking big to recover nothing more and nothing less than 372,000 square meters of land that has been won at sea and that has to be recovered. More than sixty football fields are what this space represents. A great opportunity, therefore, for urban development, for the creation of employment and wealth. This is a great project to create jobs in the river, with fishing and seafood; on the ground, already the whole process of dismantling that factory and the recovery of land would generate hundreds of jobs, and then the activities that were put there. And also to create more jobs in a major key development project in the forest sector country. And the conclusion is that there are two alternatives, and you have to choose, the alternative of the Board of Faixóo is either to act as a true Greek Government, or to continue to act as a delegation of Ence; to act in the service of the board of directors of Ence, or to serve a large public company called Galicia. The BNG is clear on which side it is. You're unfortunately too. You're against Galicia's interests and defending solely the interests of Ence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u152	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u153	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are again here today to debate the future of the Ence pastry in Galicia, as we are presumably going to do on many more occasions. This initiative that we are debating today is for us to take a giant leap towards the future, going over the situation in which we are in, which we don't understand is very appropriate because we still have a lot of passage left to go. That the extension of January 2016, carried out by the Government of Mariano Rajoy in functions, was a chapuza made to run and without the slightest legal guarantees, responding safely to a last-minute call of the company, at the last hour, and yet at the risk they had at that moment of change of government, at this point we all know it. Right now, since last July, in addition to this -- as I said once again -- it has been ratified by the judgement of the National Audience, which clearly states the exceptionalness of the occupation in the maritime-terrestrial public domain. In addition, it indicates that competing interests of an undertaking cannot prevail above the strict compliance with the legally provided requirements. And he emphasises that he does not see in the arguments neither in the evidence practiced nor in the evidence provided by the company justification none for her permanence in the public domain of the sea-terrestrial; it cannot be clearer. But let's be careful -- let's be careful because that's what I was referring to at the beginning of my intervention -- ; cautious because at the moment we have a judgment that is not firm, but that is the subject of a resource, and not only a resource but a few, and with many and many legal arguments. So we have to be responsible and manage time well. Besides, when it comes to the Supreme Court, I saw too optimistic, Mr Bará, because I think the times of the Supreme Court are much slower than you stated a few seconds ago. We know, in addition, that you like it to precipitate the judicial resolution. We also see it always with Meirás, who wants to make decisions before firmness. But those of us who work on this know that when we start a judicial procedure we never know how this can end or how rounds it can take. So I'm asking for caution because the road is moving and not hitting chimps. So we share with you the content of this initiative, the need to consensualize in the future a necessary action on these lands if finally the sentence is confirmed, in order to recover them as far as possible. I'm saying as much as possible because that picture that sometimes brings you here to the full is idyllic from the '50s, and we know you can't get it back already, because more than nothing we have a highway that passes through the middle. So it would be hard to bathe on a beach like this. But I insist: right now we have more urgent and priority actions that deserve an answer. And the main thing is to have a B option in case the Supreme Court confirms the judgment. For me, at this moment, what concerns me most is the jobs; all those families, neighbors and neighbors of my municipality, most young people, who at this time have the anguish of what will happen with their future. I'm also very concerned about the attitude of the Government of the People's Party, an attitude of continuing to support the company and closing aside to the possibility of looking for a plan B within the legality, which today only passes through the transfer to another location that meets the regulations. We cannot support a Feijóo and a Government of the Negationist Union for the industrial challenges of our land, whose action in the case of Ence is limited only to charging part reports that reaffirm the company's claims and to protect the company without thinking of anything about the future of the workers. The attitude of the Union is becoming a disincentive. They can't continue to cheat and support the company, but they have to demand a morally desirable behavior, such as ensuring within the legal framework the maintenance of jobs. Don't keep turning around the possibility of integrating the pastry in the Port Authority of Marín as an illegal solution and the illegal location at the moment, because that's messing up. In 2005, the Ministry of Development had already told him that this was against the Law of economic regime and the provision of services of general interest ports. Five negative reports; one of them by Javier Jiménez Cisneros, who was categorical and said that in this public maritime-terrestrial domain there were only port uses and maritime signage. They now instruct the Advisory Council to report as much as possible, which does not require much scrutiny to realise that it contains in its conclusions a maneuver that constitutes a clear fraud of law. And I ask: besides these strange and painful solutions, which you know are not feasible, what has the Government of the United Nations done so far to give a real answer to this problem? You cannot continue to give false expectations to workers and workers and continue to use a union as an instrument of pressure to public administrations of another political colour. We found ourselves in a sprinkling situation. I believe that since the Industrial Revolution we have not found a union of workers who bleached a company and intended to shut them down and leave them in the street, and in addition to directing their action, their pressure on two public administrations, such as the Pontevedra Council and the State, who are willing to reach a solution without being competent, defending against the other administration as is the Junta, which is the only competent in industrial matters and is with all impunity to look to the other side. Surrealist! [[Applause]] In view of this panorama, we have from the opposition that continues to insist; insisting on the need to seek another possible location within our territory. And at the last meeting of the Bureau of Dialogue on the Future of Ence, it was the Secretary of State who reached the commitment of the workers to a request from the works council of the factory to assume by the Government of Spain the cost of an objective report prepared by the technicians and professionals of our public university, to be able to find future placements within the district of Pontevedra or, failing it, within the province of Pontevedra. Complying with this commitment that was reached at this meeting, days later the outlined report was commissioned to the University of Vigo, which constituted an expert committee consisting of engineers/engineers, biologists/biologists and other technicians and technicians, who undertook to set a three-month deadline for their elaboration. Again, the Government of Spain gives evidence of its willingness to achieve a solution to this conflict, and it is clear from the lack of will of the Galician Union. He's got to stay here, but he keeps the law. We have a chance right now, because we have a lot of European funds that could be used to make a modern, sustainable factory, and not just to be a paper factory, but to end the cycle and thus leave more value added to our territory and more work. And in that sense goes our amendment, in order to add to the petitioned prior actions that from the Socialist Group -- as I said at the outset -- we consider it more urgent to develop in the short term. Because we understand that the negotiating bureau is already constituted, that negotiating bureau and dialogue is made up of all the competent administrations, representatives of the workers and representatives of the company. So we understand that once the priority action is constituted -- as I already told you -- is to wait for the content of that report. We have one of the best universities in the world according to Forbes magazine, it's going to be a totally objective report and in which I'm sure it'll determine a possible location in our territory. Because that's because it can't be moved and the only location has to be in Lourizán is no longer credible objectively. So we have to assume the content of that report, we have to focus on possible locations that can be the best possible within our region and, if not, within our province, and then push -- as I said -- this great industrial project from the Welsh forest sector to Galicia. Once we can drive and move this factory, we must also study -- as I said and agree with what you are asking for on this initiative -- the regeneration and restoration and rearrangement of these lands. Again, I hope you will accept our amendment and why we can do things -- as I said at the beginning as well -- my little pass. And finally, as I've done on other occasions, asking for consensus and will on this subject, because the bread of many families is at stake. And no more, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Santos Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr Bará, as it could not be otherwise, we are again debating again in this plenary of Parliament the interest of the BNG in closing the factory at Once and sending to unemployment thousands of workers who depend on it. Nothing but the intrusion of the BNG and the Socialist Party from closing this industry, as it is doing with many others, without trying to find solutions for all those workers. We reiterate again, Mr Bará, that the judgement of the National Audience will not be free; it will be at the expense of leaving without work and without covering thousands of families of the district of Pontevedra and throughout Galicia. Many years have been claiming environmental pollution, industry safety, as arguments to close this factory, but these arguments have already occurred when you in the bipartite government, in 2008, granted integrated environmental authorization to this industry. So you yourself confirmed during your government that Ence was neither a dangerous company nor a contaminant. Then the legal resources presented by the Pontevedra Council against this integrated environmental authorization and its various revisions were continued. And they were also dismissed so much by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, the National Court and even the Supreme Court. Now, Mr Bará, we are asked in this non-legislation proposal that Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to initiate a process of dialogue with all related administrations, with the aim of carrying out what is envisaged in the third additional provision of the POL, in relation to environmental and landscape improvement in the lands currently occupied by the company of Ence-Lourizán. Well, Mr Bará, in the decision of the High Court of Justice of Galicia of June 2020, for which the appeal brought by the Pontevedra Council against the revision of the integrated environmental authorisation of 2018 was rejected, was not given reason to the Pontevedra Council, when it claimed that according to the POL that environmental authorisation could not be authorised. Moreover, Article 95.1 of the POL, relating to existing buildings and uses, indicates that those which are implemented before the entry into force of that POL, as is the case, may continue to develop their activity regardless of their compliance with the Coastal Management Plan. So we know that the National Court's ruling on the extension of Ence is not firm, and as long as the factory continues its activity in Lourizán, it will not be applicable to the third additional provision of the POL. They've been insisting on closing the factory for many years. And the only clear argument they have is that they don't like the location there, but they never brought any alternatives, they never looked for any solution. And they don't worry at all what can happen to the thousands of workers and families who depend on this company. Of course, they found the perfect traveling companion: the Socialist Party. A Socialist Party that has done its best since it arrived in the State Government to facilitate the closure of this industry. And everything to comply with the government pact with the BNG, where it demanded the closure of this facility. All the political decisions adopted by the Socialist Party were geared towards this goal: the closure of this factory. First of all, trying to modify the Law of Back; then it was the Law of Climate Change, which, by the way, will bring a problem of legal insecurity to many buildings on our coast. And, of course, the key decision to move into the judicial process by granting the extension of Cence in the National Audience, promoted, among others, by the Council of Pontevedra. A decision that is absolutely irrational, that the grant of the extension of Ence should be granted with favourable reports from the State Counsel, and that the Socialist Party should order the State Advocate to proceed with the appeal and leave without defending his own reports when they granted that concession. Therefore, the Council of Pontevedra, with the appeal submitted to the extension of Ence, and the Government of the State, for failing to do so, are responsible and those who provided these judgments, and with this this insecurity for all the workers who depend on it. [[Applause]] And I insist again that we don't like the location of this company either. But after so many years there and knowing that the company is currently meeting all environmental and security parameters, what you don't understand is that all these workers must be unemployed as you want to do. Well, at this point, with this judgment, which is not firm, which in fact already has at least twelve appeals brought before the Supreme Court, because they open new scenarios that we have to put on the table. On the part of the BNG, which has always called for the closure of the company without offering any alternative, now what it proposes is to apply the third provision of the POL, i.e. to dismantle the factory. And, of course, as Mr Bará has said, for creating jobs tearing down the company, which sends noses! On the part of the PSOE, from the Ministry of Ecological Transition, after the third negotiating table, they now propose to hire the University of Vigo a study of possible alternative locations to Lourizán, which is logical because being the administration that caused the problem because it is the administration that is responsible for finding solutions. And all of this, after seven months of the first negotiating table. But at the same time, they're already talking about demolishing the Ence and proposing an orderly exit as reflected in its amendment to this camera by the PSdEG. So the BNG and the Socialist Party are already talking about dismantling and demolition of this industry without any alternative yet and without searching for any solution. And, on the other hand, there's the company, which says that the factory in Lourizán has to go, and they will extend the factory in Navia and complete their production process with a textile fibre factory, therefore in Asturias. That strategy seems clear, because they did not opt for the project that the Galician Union also proposes of textile fibres to locate in the province of Lugo from the next Generation funds. And it also causes many doubts that representatives of the Ministry of Ecological Transition, at the last meetings of the negotiating table, Asturian Hugo Morán, defend the pastry in Asturias and insist both on the demolition of the Ence complex. Of course, it's curious that the Socialist Party has no problem in defending Navia's pastry, and that Socialist Party itself wants to close the Lourizán factory. With this situation and in the face of the persistence of the BNG and the Socialist Party for closing Ence, the workers propose to the Galician Union that they study the possibility of ascribing to the Harbour Authority the lands of the industrial complex. As I have already commented in my last speech in this plenary on this matter, in the port of Marin there are many auxiliary and transport activities that depend solely on Ence and which can be irrecoverable. The traffic in the paper folder at Ence accounts for more than twelve thousand trucks a year, and exposes the entire production of Ence through the port of Marín, which means more than twenty percent of the total port traffic. Therefore, for the Port of Marín it would be very important to attach these lands to the public domain of the seaport. Since it can't be otherwise, the Galician Union, in order to find solutions and to ensure jobs, begins the journey to seek a legal alternative to allow the land to be added to the Port of Marín. To investigate this viability, the Board of Advisory Council is conducting a consultation on this hypothetical adscription of the land to the Port. With all this background, the Advisory Council issued a report where it is very clear that it is feasible to be able to write these land to the Port. You don't care what you say, Mr Bará. And as now the BNG and the Socialist Party do not like the meaning of the report, they question the impartiality of the Supreme Consultative Body of the Galician Union and all the Greek administrations, with jurists of recognized prestige, who are not at the finger of anyone. It is regrettable, Mr Bará, that he doubted the impartiality of the report of the Consultative Council, when all the councils of all political colors ask him for advice, as the Council of Pontevedra itself, who so far served him the most twenty reports and dictates he has requested. But now, because they don't like this one, he says it's not worth it. The truth is that they should have a little bit of rigor and seriousness, Mr Bará; whoever has to quit being patrons is you. In short, we have a report that involves the possibility of giving a legal solution to this problem, and now it depends on the political will of the Government of the State to be able to secure the thousands of jobs that depend on this company. The Government must cease to practice its policy of blocking at once and collaborate on the solution that guarantees the continuity of jobs. The advice of the Advisory Council is clear and leaves the Government and the Town Hall without excuse. Join defends the usual location because there is no other alternative; there is no other location or solution. Mr. Bará, as he refers to the spokesperson of the People's Party in Pontevedra Town Hall, I will tell Mr. Rafa Domínguez what concerns him is Pontevedra, that his neighbours continue to live in Pontevedra. It seems that the BNG and the Socialist Party of Pontevedra don't care at all. As it doesn't matter to the Town Hall that Pontevedra is the highest rate of unemployment among the seven major cities of Galicia, and he wants to continue to increase that data. [[Applause]] Because neither Marín nor Pontevedra will solve anything a hypothetical and unlikely transfer from this company to Lourizán, because many neighbors of Pontevedra and Marín will have to leave or have to go to unemployment. And in addition to the Port of Marín this loss would be irrecoverable. It would not be worth a possible transfer because port traffic and all related activities would be lost. So we propose a solution to secure these jobs, and now it is the BNG and the Socialist Party who have to have political will to solve this problem. And I end by repeating how ever the Socialist Party is shut down, and the BNG will be responsible for the future of these thousands of workers and all their families. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u156	Thank you, Mr. Santos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u157	What paper you made here today, Mr. Santos! Yeah, what paper! [[Murmurs.]] You've earned it so you can be called the Voicer of Ence in Marín. [[Laughter]] Today he earned merit to get a representation. [[Applause]] What's already the big deal is that they're still wrong here by insisting on the manipulation of the consultant's report. But how do you explain it to them? If the consultant himself has explained it clearly in the statements made by Radio Pontevedra. See: "The Advisory Council states that it does not analyse in the report requested by the Board the possible accession of Ence to the Port of Marín, but rather the possible qualification as a port area of the lands currently occupied by the pastry". Except that. But I'm going to say it more clearly, because the Advisory report says: "In the light of the above and from the limited nature of our analysis, it estimates that this Advisory Council should consider justified the need for the extension of the port service zone for complementary uses, relating to the location of companies that allow a significant increase in port traffic, taking into account both the current needs already present in the port and the future eventuality of the decrease in port traffic resulting from a hypothetical removal of the traffic generated by the company Ence." I mean, you're saying that as you're going to lose Ence, the port could extend to those lands and, in any case, that you have to comply with the sentence, which is what you command. What decides the future is the Supreme, it's not changing the law. That's a fraud like a cathedral, it's a power diversion, it's corruption, as they want me to call it. [[Applause]] But how can you defend and justify this at this point? And after the Advisory Council left, making this clarification, which is very clear, powerful and categorical, Mr. Fexóo, three days later, says that he transfers the report of the Advisory, which he sees as viable to write to Ence. They're criminals. They're criminals. [[Murmurs.]] This is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u158	I'm sorry, Mr Bará, what was the matter that sparked this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u159	Nothing. We still...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u160	Because if there's problems they protested, if there's problems... I heard something about "criminals." That's what I heard. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u161	Look, the question is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u162	Retreating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u163	Well, after they make the withdrawal they consider.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u164	The question is withdrawn. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! That's it, I've already spoken to Mr Bará and removed the word "criminal." It's all right, it's all right, it's all clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, I was talking at that moment, I can't be paying attention to two things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u165	You act like there's no court sentence. It's just a scandal. You give a non-existence sentence that says you have to close Ence; it doesn't say BNG, gave a court sentence of the National Audience. By the way, yes, by applying a People's Party law and the same thing that has for many years defended the People's Party, and even the President of the Union, who was the Pontevedra saying that Ence could not continue in the stream of Pontevedra. [[Murmurs.]] What do you want me to call him? There are no words in the dictionary anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u166	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u167	Lawbreakers. Hello!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u168	Quiet, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u169	They're lawbreakers. And what did you say after the sentence? If there are European funds, you can move the pastry, fantastic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u170	Quiet. Quiet, Mrs. Prado, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u171	"In Galicia there are two trash cans." Mr. Fêsóo said that two paperworks are in place in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know they're in the strategy of interrupting, disturbing, trying, like... but no, I'm not going to go on, they won't shut me up. "If another pastry comes and wants to put an installation in Galicia, we'll open the doors." [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fexóo speaking of two pastors, and now he doesn't want the transfer to be studied and a new location for Ence. On July 20, he said: "The board is tilted by a new location of Ence to ensure employment. Count opens the door to transfer and asks the government for European funds to finance it." What are they talking about, then? If you were defending the situation yourself. Look at the forest sector: the Galego forest sector defends the possible relocation of Ence in the territory of Galicia; it believes that it is essential to count on the processing industry. What the BNG is saying. And you're mistaken that you have to follow the Ence in Lourizán against a court ruling by the National Court; against what the law on the management of the Galician territory says. [[Murmurs.]] And now you also say that you can breach the Land Management Guidelines and the POL. It's that we made a third additional provision specific to this subject, to order the factory exit from there and retrieve the land, which is what we're proposing, in anticipation of an opposing court ruling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u172	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u173	There's no way, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u174	You're right, in this case you're right. Silence! Please, it's hard! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A little calm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u175	So they defended themselves all the time, they defended this, before that if the factory exit, now that you've been looking for a location, why did you change your touch, why did you change the People's Party? [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Because there was a touch from Madrid and they were told that they had to change and that they had to defend the interests of Ence, from Genoa and from the board of directors of the rotating gates. [[Applause]] That's the reality. And because, in addition, you use this very manipulation of the Advisory -- by the way, I use it to say that we are not going to accept the amendment of the PSOE, because it is not about the question that we propose --, they manipulate the report of the Advisory, because they use it within this harassment strategy and I bring it down to the municipal government of Pontevedra, which is a failed strategy. They've been failing in bullying and falling for twenty-two years, including coercion, blackmail, pressure, the purchase of wills. [[Applause]] And they won't. They won't. They won't. Forget about that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u176	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u177	We asked him to finish... yes, the time is that they've been interrupting me all the time, so, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u178	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u179	...I have to enjoy a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u180	Quiet, I'll control it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u181	Transgressors! They're transgressors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u182	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u183	We solemnly ask him from this rostrum to break the alliance with Ence, that ununiversal destiny unit, that indissoluble marriage with Ence, the rotating doors. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They just need to put the green bond of Cence, that big bond, put it on top of San Caetano or in the City of Culture, because more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u184	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u185	No, no, sorry, Mr. President, they've been interrupting me all the time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u186	No, please look at the weather.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u187	And, I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u188	That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u189	I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u191	...calling them to vote in favour, to vote in favour, to vote in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u192	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u193	...to recover the river, to recover the lands of the Ence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u194	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u195	...and to promote a great project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u196	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u198	Let's just take it easy. Let's just calm down. There's less left. Let's all go easy, that we're already on time to finish it all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understand that so many hours here... but we're already finished. Let's take it easy. Come on, let's have a heart, that's only one left, the last one. Let's go with the last one. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and fifteen other Members, on the demand of the Gunta de Galicia to the Government of Spain for the activation of measures in favour of the electrointensive industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u199	There is a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group, and there is an amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u200	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Candia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u201	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. You have to allow me a license because if I don't start that way. Mr. Santos, if you return to Pontevedra and tell him they called him "criminal" for trying to defend the jobs of many Pontevedra families, you smell! And smell all the people who work like that! [[Murmurs.]] Because I'm going to tell you one thing: that they quickly fell down the face of moderation! That's the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Murmurs.]] And now I also tell you: I'm waiting for that momentum, a little more education, but that momentum and commitment to keep the jobs of electrointensives and Alcoa. That impetuous one! [[Applause]] Well, I'm starting my speech and I'm going to show you two bills, two electric bills, with names and names of a humble gain holding. [[Mrs. Candia López shows the House two bills.]] In June last year, it paid around 300 euros; in June 2021 it went from 600 euros. With daily interviews -- this is already the same month -- : "Before I paid 400 euros a month; now I'm in triple, 1,200". Multiple family cuts throughout the country, suffocated by the price of light, that have to choose between eating or paying the rent. This is how vulnerable families suffer the record price of light. Another: "Condemning you to fall sick." They are means of different typology and different parts of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, when the light rose by 13%, a desperate Pedro Sánchez came to the Government, he went to Rajoy and said, "Mr. Rajoy, how dear you are to the Spanish people!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And I ask you, Your Honor, when you've now moved on to triple the receipt many digits, how does Pedro Sanchez turn out to the Spaniards? Well, it's ruining, Leonino. And, of course, if these examples show small companies that are suffocated, it must also be said that, if there is an economic activity that suffers with much more impact that increase in the price of light, it's the electro-intensive industries, that 60% of their production costs are energy. Ladies and gentlemen, the shock plan approved by the Council of Ministers to lower the price of light does not work, failed to achieve its objectives. And in electrointensives, while in Spain they pay at a price of 112.24 megawatts, in France they pay 48 and, in Germany, 77, to set an example. That is, of course, what is attacking the competitiveness of the companies that are located in our territory. Experts warn that they will even follow these prices of light with high quotas up to 2022. And why are we in this energy crisis? So I don't think anyone would doubt it -- there's a lot of studies that prove it, and we've heard it over the course of today on repeated occasions -- that the decisions being made in energy matters are improvised decisions and, in view of the result, moreover, wrong. The lack of thermals -- well, now you know it may not -- before ensuring the integration of renewables with different technologies: electric biomass, wind or photovoltaics, and above all management and storage. The electric mix in Spain has a higher dependence on natural gas and we must import higher and higher reference prices. In short, all of this is impacting family economies -- I quoted two articles -- but also small and medium-sized enterprises, and so on, and at one point, in addition, where the competitiveness of companies is very important after this huge health crisis that we have just lived through and that is not yet completely overcome. The associations of electrointensive companies threaten, and they clearly say it: as this doesn't change, there will be breaks and closures in the industry -- all of this is exposed in the explanatory statement --. And it's not much to remember the importance of this intensive sector in our economy: it represents 5.7% of gross added value and it creates thousands of direct and indirect jobs. The proposal that I put to the vote today in the House and which seeks to achieve your support calls for a number of measures. It has been amended to increase the amount to which subsidies could be made in respect of the cost compensation mechanisms for indirect greenhouse gas emissions. The maximum count that allows the European Union, as you know, is 25 % of CO2's income, so we initially had 312, but we already know that the amount can reach 450. In point 2 we asked to activate the Spanish Reserve Fund for Electrointensive Needs Guarantees for the coverage of risks arising from medium- and long-term purchase operations of the supply of electricity -- known PPAs -- among consumers of electrical energy that have the condition of electrointensives, according to Cesce. It also immediately summons renewable-source power stations to acquire electro-intensive consumers. And establish demand management mechanisms that allow flexibility to be offered to the electrical system. Finally -- as I well explained -- these are the points and the measures that we demand. But we also present an amendment that remains of great importance to our region, to the region of the Navy. We knew on October 28 that the employment regulation file had the Supreme Court's declaration of nullity, but we still have the same problem that affects electrointensives: their viability and the price of energy. Many were the promises, many were the non-compliances that we have been citing in various initiatives, both in plenary and in committee. We do not understand why the decision of temporary intervention by Sepi is not adopted. The president of the Committee himself addressed all the political groups and came to claim it -- obviously, he did not want to take this occasion aside -- without putting into force that effort, that surrender, that resilience of the workers and their families, but I also have to say that, on the part of the Socialist Party, first of all, and on the side of the Galician Nationalist Block too, which, in this case, was absolutely beside and -- why not say so? -- not even being a accomplice, but using this problem to defend a possible pact. And from what I see and what I've learned here today, they have a lot more interest in meeting the pacts when the pact means closing an industry than complying with the pacts when the pact means continuing the jobs in the Navy. [[Applause]] So right now, beyond a political debate, there are many families waiting for political decisions. They're waiting for electro-intensive companies, who know that, if no action is taken, they can end up breaking or closing. That means layoffs and that means that many families lose their jobs, especially in our neighborhood, in Alcoa. Look, in the year 2019, Pedro Sánchez came to give a rally to the Coruña. In his rally he went out -- and I point out the rally because you well know that in politics what is said there and how it is said, if it's not done, they probably have to wait until it's taken care of by the people -- : "Sánchez assures in his rally in Galicia that they've guaranteed a future for Alcoa." Nor, of course, did he secure it for Alcoa Coruña or secure it for Alcoa The Navy. And it's funny because, when they try to confuse the population here by saying that the competences in industry are from the Autonomous Community, here, of course, it didn't say "if you leave me Beejo" or "if you make A or B bee," clearly sold it as an achievement, because it's the truth -- he knows it perfectly -- that this is an energy policy decision. Many families -- without drifting away from what I meant -- are waiting for this decision, in a region where their mouths are filled asking for a reindustrialization. [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document.]] And I ask you, Your Honor, will there not be better industrialization than to contribute to the continuation of the jobs that are currently in the Navy shining? I hope, as in other times, we have reached a unanimous agreement. I expect it not because it is a point in favour of the group I represent today, but because I know that there are many families that are waiting not only for what is said here, but those who have the responsibility to do so -- namely, the Government of Spain, in particular the intervention of SEPI, or in particular the Council of Ministers -- do so, and the measures I propose here will mean the continuity and tranquility of many families. In this first shift, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u203	Very good. Endesa and Iberdrola have just presented their quarterly results; some accounts showing a profit for the first nine months of this year of more than 3,800 million euros; 3.800 million in nine months, more than 14 million euros a day, mainly from the tremendous escalation of electricity prices since the summer. And precisely about the prices of electricity I'm going to talk about, how these prices are marked, about the problems they are causing and about the proposals that BNG has to regulate this market that is absolutely essential for a society and a country. The first thing we have to do to understand the receipt of light is to divide it into two parts: to take, on the one hand, the cost of electrical supply -- that is, what they charge us for the amount of electricity that we consume -- and to do another part with everything else -- different concepts that are really very opaque -- such as charges, fees and different taxes -- and that nothing has to do with our electrical consumption. Starting with this last part of the receipt, among these charges are, for example, renewable premiums; money that the government has committed to companies to encourage the installation of renewables, which today no longer exist, but have existed and we are still paying. Another example of charges are the costs of transporting electricity to extra-pensular territories: Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla. Another example is the Electric Social Bonus; these discounts on the receipt that the Government establishes for vulnerable consumers, or the cost of not cutting electricity in the event of defaults to those consumers considered to be severe vulnerable. These costs are accumulated and divided between the electricity and then distributed, they transfer these costs to all people and consumer companies. They are social policy measures to avoid what is called "energy poverty" which, in principle, must assume the electricity but which transfer them to the receipt that we all pay for. The first proposal of the BNG is to remove these concepts from the electric receipt, to clear the receipt of everything that is not specifically what we are paying for, because, in our view, these concepts, these charges, should be paid from the general budgets of the State, since all these costs are the product of policy decisions of economic policy: to encourage the installation of renewables, to protect vulnerable consumers, to finance overcosts of bringing electricity out of the Peninsula, to the tariff deficit... political decisions that should be borne from the general budgets. We don't say that we don't have to pay them all, but through state budgets; some budgets that we also fund among all, but we do it through taxes that we pay according to our income level or our wealth, not through the electric receipt. It's a totally regressive system that makes no difference and therefore discriminatory. In addition, there are three separate taxes: VAT, generation tax and special electricity tax. In the case of taxes, too, we must act consistently and rationally. If electricity is an essential asset -- as in fact it is -- it should be applied to the over-reduced IVE of at least 4 % within certain levels of consumption. As for the other part of the receipt -- the most important --, at the price of electricity itself, this price is marked in the wholesale market through a system known as "pool." Through this system, with a day ahead of time, it's about the electricity we're going to consume the next day. Electricity goes into that pool, and it's going to compromise -- by the way -- from the cheapest to the most expensive. First, the cheapest, like nuclear and hydraulics; then, renewables, wind and solar; and then, to complete demand, gas and coal enter. Once the demand is met, the price is set. They're all going to charge the same price, the price that marked the last in, the most expensive. It's like we go to the market, we take potatoes, tomatoes, lettuce, chicken, and you understand, and they charge us everything at the price of the senses. For example, hydraulic energy, with production costs of around 10 euros/megavatio, has been paid at 200 euros/megavatio, a profit of 2,000 %. [[Murmurs.]] Or, in the case of renewables, such as wind and solar, with an estimated profit of 800 %. We know that in January the companies asked for 25 euros/megavatio; so we can reasonably assume that production costs are lower, and 200 euros megavatio... make the account: benefits of more than 800 %. The price of gas is already a bit more complex. The price of gas affects two factors: the first, which is a product to be imported, which is common on international markets, and can therefore be affected by pure and harsh speculation, or by the political decisions of the producer countries, Russian cases or Algeria. And it's also affected by the CO2 market, at the cost of CO2 emissions, because the right to pollution is bought and sold on international markets like any other financial product. In fact, to issue a ton of CO2, which at the beginning of the year cost EUR 30, now costs 60. And gas plants emit CO2, so producing gas electricity is expensive because of these two factors. The CO2 penalty is an emission cost that, of course, is also transferred to consumers, because we already know that "who pollutes, pays" is nothing more than a slogan. Or can we not afford to consume electricity? Well, in this area, BNG's proposal to reduce the price of electricity is to remove nuclear and hydraulic power from the electric pool. Electricity produced with these technologies, which are the cheapest, would be paid according to their recognized production costs and would be reserved for industrial hyperconsumers and vulnerable consumers. Something similar works in France, where they reserve 25% of nuclear production for their hyper-consumer industry. And finally, to extend the subsidies granted by the Government to compensate for indirect greenhouse gas emission costs to the maximum allowable by the EU. Both this last measure, expanding subsidies, and cleaning up the electric receipt of charges and fees, i.e. of improper costs, are measures that the Government could take immediately, as well as reforming and reducing taxes by giving them coherence. The other measures, taking out certain technologies from the pool, may take longer, but we want to make it clear that they are perfectly feasible within the current framework of the European Union -- if French -- and that they would have a very positive impact on price. On the contrary, we must regret that the measures announced by the Government are not clear and cause confusion and instability, such as the decree on the benefits of electricity, which lasted a week. They are opaque and complex, such as the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, which does not eliminate charges, but rather transfers some of them to the fuels, fueling natural gas, gasoline and gas oil; or transfers overcosts at the price of gas to the future, generating a new tariff deficit that will have to be paid from March onwards. As far as the Guarantee Reserve Fund for long-term contracts is concerned, the employer of electro-intensive companies himself shows that there will be no impact on the price of electricity. We agreed on this assessment. In any case, what seems obvious is that large power companies have enough power to put a pulse on the state in defense of absolutely illegitimate benefits, out of all proportions, that do not respond to the logic of normal economic activity or normal market, but that they respond to a system tailored to it for many years by the PSOE and the PP -- reform after reform, step by step, seat on the board of directors to seat on the board of directors, some and others -- shielding the disproportionate privileges of the big electricians. And today they have the strength to make the state, families and industry tremble, at grave risk, at a crisis that can be even worse than the one caused by the cowardice. Breaking this domain, with these privileges, is fundamental and everyone can take action. Junta can start by setting up a public energy company in Galicia; a company that could recover those overdue hydraulic concessions or those that are gradually winning, as well as recovering those in which the concessionaire is failing to comply with the terms of the concession. A public enterprise would be the way to break with monopoly, it would be the way to market a competitor, a company that is characterized by good environmental practices and with respect to consumer people, and at the same time a mechanism for the benefits of our energy resources, public resources -- because rivers are public -- to remain in Galicia and generate wealth and jobs in the country. These are the BNG proposals to reduce the price of electricity and the proposals for an electro-intensive status that strengthens and encourages industrial activity and employment in our country. We urge the Government of the State to execute them urgently, because the risk of many companies at this point is serious and imminent. And we urge the Union to also take measures, within its competences, which correspond to the establishment of the public energy company or the already known Greek electricity tariff, which guarantees competitive prices for both domestic and industrial consumers. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u204	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Good afternoon and, as Mr. President said, we're done. And although this isn't the first time we've talked about this debate about the problem and the price crisis of the bill of light and gas, we appreciate the tone and not the usual virulence. This, actually, without any kind of irony, after the afternoon we've been sharing. Any debate about the approach to measures is possible, and many of those that are asked, in fact, in this proposal -- and that we will then discuss -- are measures that are already in progress, but all the measures that can continue to be approached, together with those that are currently underway, are welcome, because, indeed, the characteristics of the market we have in our country, the level of affection that these prices are being absorbed into the electrointensive industry are directly affecting their future and their viability. On the one hand -- and to clarify, because sometimes what we lack is also a little context -- is working on two fundamental aspects. One is a more technical aspect, which is what it has to do with that fund of public assets for medium- and long-term energy procurement. It is, as I said, a step that you usually forget when we talk about this problem of the price of light, which is one of the aspects in which you are working in the last few hours and in the last few days and which is a fundamental step if we do not want this country's industry to suffer more than other countries in Europe. And it has to do with that dialogue, with that agreement that is trying to be implemented between the large electricity companies, which actually have between their big customers, industry and the electro-intensive sector. We are implementing and trying to achieve that agreement, that dialogue that is open in the last few days, because electricity companies have, indeed, a good part of the responsibility of helping -- the margin of the powers that the Government has, of which we will talk, in this problem that we have, in particular, the electro-intensive industry -- so that there is a greater supply of electricity in the long term and at reasonable prices. There is a part, as you know, where we can -- we say -- the Executive, within these powers, but, indeed, much of the source -- which is what we always see in this debate about the situation we are living in -- has to do with the price of gas on international markets, and, as you said, with that problem on the level of coverage that industry has about the supply and price of electricity, which is limited. Because even if a party is covered by medium- and long-term contracts at fixed prices, there is another part, in fact, in that mix it does, that gets charged coming day by day, going to that warehouse market. That's why it affects them in such an important way, and that's where there's that big difference with other European industries that have long-term price contracts made with greater coverage than our industry. To solve this situation, this problem -- which is not denied, that it does not deny not only this parliamentary group, but rather that it does not deny the Ministry and the Government of the State -- is underway this dialogue with both energy companies and large electro-intensive sectors, that in the last few hours, what they did was to ask that these bilateral contracts be made available once and for all in the medium term, in the long term, and at affordable and reasonable prices. It's a commitment that's on the table and that's obviously not being fulfilled. That's an important step, because contextualizing is having this serene debate. But there is another side and another part, indeed, that has to do with the powers of the State. There are mechanisms, indeed, to compensate the electro-intensive companies and, in fact, we have on the table a draft budget which for the first time envisages 470 million euros specifically for these companies. It's the highest game in history in aid to these companies. It's numbers. Of these 470 million euros, something more than a third, in addition, around 180, at least, will go to the CO2 indirect emission cost compensation mechanism that is envisaged in the budget project; containplase already that it can be increased to that 25% that you are asking for on this initiative. And here we have to tone something, because, in fact, those revenues are already partly dedicated to the electro-intensive industry. What happens -- because you talked about it and it ends at the beginning of the debate cuts from families and businesses, and that feeling has to be continued in the debates both here and, of course, in the Congress of Members on the part of the different parliamentary groups -- is that part of those incomes that come from CO2 are already -- it says -- dedicated to electrointensives, but there is another part that is also dedicated to amortizing this rise in the electric bill of all consumers and also to financing that Social Bonus that has been expanded to citizens and most vulnerable citizens. So we have to take care of the intensive industry, but we also have to contain the receipt for consumers and consumers in their homes. And that's precisely why 900 million extras from those CO2 pockets you were talking about to reduce the electric bill. In any case, in the budget project, as I said, this option is already envisaged for the industry of 25 %. They also call for policies to be activated in this proposal through the Cesce and on behalf of the state. You know that a few weeks ago, precisely if you approved, you would activate this mechanism that you are asking for and is already in progress, with the approval in the Committee on the Risks of the Intensive Market. Therefore, as I said, they limit and focus this debate, unfortunately, on this political confrontation. They've been positioned around this problem -- they said -- on several occasions in the Congress of Deputies -- you talked about these particular cases that obviously concern the whole world -- but, as I said, they've been positioned -- without going any further, in September -- against that Royal Decree 17/2021, which contemplates these tax measures, the most vulnerable consumer aid, and you voted against, gentlemen. [[Applause]] They also do not want to enter the debate of why the market, why the stock market is suffering from these unprecedented prices; contextualized prices in the international situation, the rapid recovery of economies and how that imbalance between demand and supply of gas occurs. Also the European Union's emission rights market -- today we've also seen here about transition and climate -- a European Union emission rights market that has seen increasing the price of CO2 this year, because of, among other things, the increase in climate ambition and the reduction of emission rights. And, as they said here in this debate, you can't be in Mass and Replicating, speaking and pulling out what Galicia is doing her duties as regards the reduction of emissions, and then being qualifying for hasty decisions and made within the framework of the energy transition. Indeed, welcome to the fact that, at the top of the climate, both the UN and the European Union and the Spanish State and the councillor themselves -- who traveled to Glasgow-- assume this new ambition and that they double their targets to achieve that end of the emissions in the year 2050. But I want to ask you again how you intend to fulfill those goals with which you have come to defend in this House. We are therefore in an extraordinary setting, in the midst of a complicated situation that is taking place at the second level at the national level, but also at the international level, with concrete proposals -- which is very important -- at the European level that set out alternatives to the rules of a market that must be changed. You have not only stood against that Royal Decree 17/2021 with measures such as that social shield which has already been established in the health crisis and which was extended there, but have also voted against other decisions and have been against other measures such as those taken last October 26 to the Council of Ministers. Of course, we're facing a problem -- we said -- priority. We say that we have no complex to approve such measures, to support the Central Executive, when at European level the Member States are pressing to change that regulatory framework to, for example, implement measures such as centralized gas purchase at European level, as has been done with vaccines, in order to win negotiations on international markets. But that's where we can't find those voices of concern for families and industry as well. [[Applause]] They presented this self-amendment on the particular situation of Alcoa. Mr. Tellado, speaking of industry, said: "Barreras, 100 percent private. Don't tell me about Barreras, 100 percent private." Yes, Mr. Tellado. Private, but also with a decision center that is no longer in Vigo after many years, thanks to the decisions of coming to crochet with Pemex. That's where this situation is. We want to talk about private companies when it's appropriate. [[Applause]] But yes, we speak of Alcoa and, as we have already expressed on many occasions and in commission, around that, if there is no other way to maintain jobs, we will vote in favour of this temporary intervention of Sepi in Alcoa, but always expressing once again that bad faith by the company; a bad faith that says not the PSdEG Group, but that was reflected in that car of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia when it annulled that collective dismissal, which was, as you know, also referred to by the Supreme Court. So instead of playing ball today in these debates, talking about industry, employment, where we mix up the organic theme of one party, the other, talking about what industry is interested in, whether it's private or not depending on the debate, because we, as I said, have no problem voting in favour of these measures and sum up all that is necessary to continue by suggesting that, indeed, the intensive industry is not the most affected by the escalation of the prices of electricity and gas. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u207	Well, unfortunately, I wasn't wrong. Of course, they put much more effort on him, much more enthusiasm, to defend that he had to close Ence than to explain the measures and to support decisions that are absolutely essential for the maintenance of jobs in electrointensives. Mr. Fernández has already left me absolutely shocked. He didn't quote Alcoa in all of his intervention in the 10 minutes. When there's no sign, when there's no theater, the interest disappears! And let's put our face back on and that here... [[Applause]] Thanks to this... still, they question it, because this weekend it was very obvious that you believe that by repeating a lie many times it has become true, but in Galicia that doesn't happen, because the Greeks, as you well know, are very smart people. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Otero, you have a good heel -- which I thank you too, because, of course, in the debates, education and respect, which we have not heard before, they have to rule -- but we also have to admit that it seems to me that I was telling the telenovela about where, what happens I don't know where, what passes through here, what passes through there, what passes through there... but, of course, we're talking about the fact that by the end of month the bills are coming. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I mean, I appreciate it, don't get me wrong, but it's seen so little effort that anyone who's waiting, that you won't be able to load the gas oil tank from the heating or that the bill of light will come from you and you have to choose, as one of the people said -- I recognize that that's the concept of empathy -- I mean, let's actually put ourselves in place. This is a graph. What you told me as if it were the country of wonders is what's going on in our country. [[Mrs. Candia López shows a chart.]] I am obliged to remind you again that, when you said that Rajoy was expensive, I don't know how he wants me to define how Pedro Sánchez is doing to Spaniards right now. Another fact that seems very important to me -- because I always say it in committees, and it's true that I'm only in the middle of the countryside, but I often have to appeal to that -- is that coherence in politics to me, of course, has always been working pretty well, because you have to apply the values that you have as a person to practice everything, in your profession and also in politics. When Mrs. Pontón warned Sánchez of "if you want our vote, you have to give a solution to the electrointensives," what were you referring to? Who were you referring to this? [[Mrs. Candia López shows a document.]] Because I voted for him, didn't I? [[Murmurs.]] When Mrs. Reyes Maroto confirmed that the Statute they were going to pass, the statute of electrointensives, was going to come in time to save everyone, that would have to explain to the company committee... well, it's not going that way anymore because, no doubt... do you know what they said? "Mister Maroto, don't sell us by motorcycle." You're already on the subject of selling a train. But, of course, there is for everyone, because there he betrayed her subconscious. [[Applause]] I don't speak to the organic, that I'm absolutely respectful of what we're dealing with here, but a lady who used to be in the organic and now I don't know very well where she is... but I don't spend much time watching where the people of the PSOE are, because there are so many changes lately that one has already been lost, and I've had so little time. For Mrs Lastra guarantees that the statute of electrointensives would give Alcoa viability. Look, I'll tell you something. If the party I represent had done 10% of this, I'm sure they wouldn't let us out of Parliament. And I'm telling you more, they'd be right, because this is to miss the truth and abuse people's vulnerability situation, and of course, I think that's the wrong way to go. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't have to count a story, you have to apply the button, you have to vote, you have to make the decision that Sepi intervenes Alcoa and you have to make the decision to increase the help I cited here. And the rest will be a model debate on forms -- I insist, I thank you, and not the barbarities we've heard before, which also served us to see what state we're in, and which really the BNG went not anywhere, nor made up of anything, but what it was -- but undoubtedly the Socialist Party has to make its decisions. [[Murmurs.]] I would like to thank you for your positive vote. I don't know what the Galego Nationalist Block is going to do, but I don't hide it from a great disappointment that I haven't dedicated a single second to the Alcoa workers. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u208	The BNG amendment doesn't accept it? [[Refusal.]] After the debate on the proposals, we shall proceed to the vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u209	We begin by voting on the People's Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block are not accepted. Voting of the motion for a non-law by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action by the Spanish Navy on the shipyards of Navantia, in the Ferrol River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u210	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. No amendments were tabled. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Martín Seco García and Mr. María Leticia Gallego Sanromán, on the achievement by the Government of a pact by the industry with the aim of reactivating the economy and modernizing the productive model towards the ecological transition and digital transformation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u211	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangüena Fernández. The amendment is accepted. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal by the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangéna Fernández and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Council to declare the state of climate emergency in Galicia, activate transversal policies to achieve the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, promote investment in R & D+i and become involved in the European Green Pact. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u212	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Our Press. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. Voting of the compromised text of the G.P.'s Non-Legal Proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños and three other Members, on the commitment to the creation of a study committee to address a proposal for a reform of the financing system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u213	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luís Bará. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Voting of G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union for the recovery of the land currently occupied by Ence in Lourizán, Pontevedra, in compliance with the additional provision of the Coastal Management Plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u214	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elena Candia's initiative. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Iglesias and fifteen other Members, on the demand of the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain for the activation of measures in favour of the electrointensive industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-09-DSPG055.u215	The session is suspended until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
