ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG052.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. He justified his inattentiveness to this full-time wife Rosana Pérez Fernández. We shall no longer enter the only item on the agenda, which is the appointment of the senator or senator representative of the Autonomous Community of Galicia to replace Don Jesus Vázquez Abad. All of this is done in accordance with Article 165.4. Senator's designation or senator representative of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in place of D. Jesús Vázquez Abad
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG052.u2	It will be taken into account the agreement of the Bureau and the Speaker's Board of Auditors of 20 October 2021 and the procedure for the appointment of a senator or senator representing the Autonomous Community of Galicia in place and Mr Jesús Vázquez Abad in accordance with Rule 165.4 of the Rules of Procedure of the House will be initiated. According to the Bureau of 25 October, Mr Juan Carlos Serrano López was accepted as a candidate for the senator, representing the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The election shall be made by ballot in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Regulation. For these purposes, the House services have drawn up a paperboard with the candidate's name. Each Member or Member shall issue his vote with an asp "yes", "no" or "abstention" in the corresponding box. If no box is marked, a blank vote will be considered; and if any amendments, ransomed or any other additions are introduced, a null vote will be declared. The paperwork has been distributed and I suppose all of you are in possession of it. If there's anyone who doesn't have it, let him know. [[Pause.]] They all have it. I therefore ask the Bureau secretary, Mrs. Porro Martínez, to proceed with the call; and the vice-president first and the vice-secretary, Mr. Calvo and Mrs. Ortega, to sit down as an urn for the collection of the papers. Whenever you want, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG052.u3	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG052.u4	Thank you. Have all Members and Members voted? [[Assentment.]] So we proceed to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-10-26-DSPG052.u5	The result of the ballot is as follows: votes in favour of Mr. Juan Carlos Serrano López, 41; votes in favour, 31. The result of the vote is in favour of the candidate. So, having reached the support of the House, he is appointed Senator, representing the Autonomous Community of Galicia, Mr Juan Carlos Serrano López. Ends here this specific session for the senator's election and we continue with the next plenary session, which is already a regular session.
