ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting at the sixth item on the agenda, with questions for the President's oral answer. We begin with the question of Mr. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, about the role that gives the Councils of Galicia to confront the reactivation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. We've been lost for six months to push Galician economic and social reactivation from Junta, and we can't afford to lose six more months for that reactivation. You, Mr. President, can't take any longer to put on all the abilities of the Union to drive Galicia's economic reactivation and you must stop having your arms down, because the Greeks and the Greeks feel orphaned in the face of this government's inability and failure to manage. There are 313 municipalities and we need the Galician Union to support, collaborate and support Galician municipalities in the face of an action in which you don't meet your competences. Move those skills to the Town Hall and don't give them funding to do what you had to do. Your anti-municipalism is clear, Mr Feijóo, and it is necessary to put together the capacity of the Board to collaborate with the councils. That's where we socialists rule -- giving government to 55% of the Greeks and Greeks from socialist mayors -- we know that municipal engagement is a fundamental issue in boosting reactivation. And just when the Galician Board received 635 million euros last year, when there are more than 1,100 million euros extraordinary in the budgets of the board, you put the money in the box but did not share it and did not share it with those you have transferred your obligations and your competencies -- inappropriate powers of the councils and have no funding-- And that's why, when you suffocate the municipalities, it suffocates the entities that have the greatest proximity and ability to solve the crisis problems and who have been with people since the first moment of the pandemic. And you can't financially drown the municipalities, because it's also drowning the response to the crisis, and it's drowning people. And right now, where the municipalities would need funding that reaches the board for the skills you don't meet, this year reduces transfers to the councils by 8% and does not increase the Local Cooperation Fund -- which had the ability to do so to give that funding -- And they make nocturnal calls -- which affect the country's equality -- calls at midnight, which curiously at twelve and twenty minutes are already exhausted by the discretion of the People's Party. We also know how discretion is a bad ally, a bad way, to make public policies. [[Applause]] For example, in the House of Ourense more than 80% of grants and transfers funds are danced without competitive competition, without advertising, by the finger of the House of Ourense. And that mechanism is a mechanism that implies discretion. The pact for municipalism needs funds and equality. And that's what I'm asking. I ask you, Mr Feijóo, to change your anti-municipalism, to make a municipalist tour based on different aspects. First of all, to cooperate with the municipalities, to assume their powers -- and if you're not able to manage them, when they give them to the municipalities, they are given funding. Secondly, I would like to ask you, Mr Feijóo, to commit yourself today to an increase in the funding of the home aid service; that this year you pay for that home aid service with 12 euros per hour and that you commit yourself to that next year you can fund that home aid service with 16 euros per hour. Because it's your obligation, the duty of the board to social policies with the biggest in the house. And you don't do them. We want to tell you, Mr Feijóo, that we have proposed changes to the budget, when it was approved, to increase the Local Cooperation Fund...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u3	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u4	...in 100 million euros. And now, with that "found of consensus" -- as you call it in the Reactivation Commission -- there are 113 million euros that today are on the board without even being destined, when the six months of greater depth of the crisis and of greater gravity have passed. We ask you to dedicate 25 million euros with objective criteria for your distribution among the municipalities of Galicia and also to cooperate to define priorities with the municipalities before the next generation funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u5	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u6	It is the time, Mr. Feijóo, of a new local pact, of a new local pact to come to a great agreement that allows for the reactivation from the Union and from the municipalities. They don't escape their responsibilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u7	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u8	...and they push a reactivation, which is not to benefit the municipalities, is to benefit the people who feel orphaned in the absence of the Government of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u9	Thank you. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, the Galician Union will continue to work with the Greek municipalities, and will continue to do so in times of crisis, in times of pandemic and in times of well-being. We've been doing this since we got to Galician Union. If you understand by municipalism to give money to institutions governed by the Socialist Party and not to spend money on public health, public education and social services, you will understand that's not what citizens in Galicia want. Since we arrived in the Government in 2010, we have carried EUR 4.155 million in transfers and grants to the municipalities, of which 1,444 are from the Local Cooperation Fund. Your Honor, this year, which has lowered the collection, has lowered the Local Cooperation Fund in the beginning which is directly related to the collection. But in the other sections, the Local Cooperation Fund for the year 2021 again rose EUR 6.4 million. So, Your Honor, what we're doing is we're dedicating between 6%, 7% or 8% of Galician budget to transfers to municipalities. And we are one of the few autonomous communities that has an unconditional local cooperation fund, so that the municipalities do what they consider appropriate. We dedicate more to the municipalities in the budget of the Galician Union than we do to the Council of the Sea every year. Your Honor, give me the feeling that you're talking about hearing too. But if there were few EUR 4,155 million, for example, in the exclusive powers of the municipalities, such as in water supply and sanitation, we have invested EUR 1,100 million. In an exclusive competition of municipalities such as general urban management plans -- and so on -- we also finance, Your Honor; we finance to see if the municipalities are able to make their own general urban management plans. In emergencies and fire stations, 133 million euros additional; in social policies, 700 million euros additional. Gentlemen, I don't know exactly what your problem is. Of course, you don't know what we're dealing with the Single Social Agenda with the Town Councils, a framework plan for improving the Roads, the Landscape Pact, the Emergency Group, the Public Transport Plan -- that is, with most of the Town Councils -- There are other municipalities -- probably those you depend on -- that what they're dedicated to is blocking, preventing and destroying. Let's keep working. You speak of the fact that we have a share of the undistributed money, the consent fund. In forty years of autonomy, no government proposed that the opposition and the majority group consent to the fate of more than 100 million euros of the budget, never! And now it says it's pending to distribute, when what we're trying to do is consensual. BNG says it's all about primary care and you say it's about municipalities. It would be good if they agreed. We're going to dedicate 22% of the background to the Town Councils, including the home care service. Your Honor, it is not the fault or responsibility of this government that the Central Government is nullifying the councils during the pandemic. You apparently preside over the Federation of Municipalities. The fact that your government does not transfer money -- according to you, enough -- to the municipalities will not be the responsibility of the autonomous communities, unless it is interpreted that autonomous communities are disintegrating entities of the state. Mr. Knight, a bit of guidance. We have carried more than 4 billion euros transferred to the municipalities these years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u12	We are financing the exclusive infrastructure and competences of the municipalities. There are many examples according to the counties and Council of Galicia. We have a Consensus Fund and we will devote 27 % of that fund to the municipalities. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised you're wrong again, wrong yourself at the door you have to call. You call the central government door and leave public health, public education and public social services that manage the Autonomous Community. By the way, Your Honor, the Autonomous Community is also a State. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u13	Thank you, President. Mr. Caballero's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u14	Mr. Feijó, you can stretch the numbers whatever you want, but reality clearly disproves it. Where you don't rule, you don't trust municipalism, and where you have municipal power, you distribute it in an unequal way. The best example is the House of Ourense, where even the Board of Auditors had to assume that this administration was unable to render accounts. The 84% of the recruitment of Ourense Members is without competitive competition and without advertising; 80% of all the grants it gives are the finger. That's the capacity of the People's Party to discriminate. And since Galician Union there are municipalities that don't have one deal. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, don't keep cheating. You in the budgets of the Board this year have 1,100 million euros extraordinary and you've come to tell me that they've reduced the counties to part of transfers but then they've been raised to 6 million euros in other concepts. The Union receives more than EUR 1,100 million and the Union increases its share by six million euros for the municipalities of Galicia, which have been assuming the competences that you do not meet. I do not admit, Mr. Feijóo, that you recriminate this group or this opposition to the defense of public health -- that we do and you do not -- or the commitment to social services -- that you have to do and do not do -- Don't look for him, Mr. Feijóo, an escape from the ostrich, trying to confuse everyone. They deal with the municipalities, who know they're totally abandoned by you. You say we understand municipalism as giving money to the municipal governments of the socialists. But what a form of political vision the president of the Galician Union has! Can those councils governed by socialists -- that govern more than 55% of the Greeks and the Greeks -- and have to be discriminated against by the Government of the People's Party? Is that what you're telling the Greeks and the Greeks that where you don't rule can discriminate, that you can block? [[Applause]] Does the People's Party still believe that the box of the Union is a box owned by the People's Party and not by the Greeks and the Greeks? We can't admit that you don't commit yourself to the councils, because you're not fulfilling your social policy skills, because you're not fulfilling your skills in education, health, and you're suffocating the municipalities because of the failure of management and commitment of this Union government. And also, Mr. Feijóo, now that we're done, I want to tell you an important question. Here there's a lot of political debate on many issues, and when there's a mistake, it's recognized, but when there's a court sentence that says a mayor of the People's Party -- like the mayor of Vilanova of Arousa -- he's using macho attacks, convicted by sentence, by crime,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u15	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u16	...in front of the President of the Parliament of Pontevedra, the President of all the Greeks and Greeks cannot be complicit in that condemned machismo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u18	Not opinionable, Mr. Feijó. [[Applause]] And I also want to tell you what your municipalist commitment is. Stop escaping, approach a new local pact in Galicia, assume your skills and collaborate with the municipalities -- which you don't --.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u19	Finish, please, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u20	It is commensurate with the increase in the financing of the home aid service: 12 euros per hour this year, 16 euros per hour from next year, because they have to pay everything and it costs 19 euros per hour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u21	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u22	Thirdly, it is committed, Mr Feijóo, to increasing the Local Cooperation Fund...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u24	There are millions of euros in the board accounts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u25	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Your time is up. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Your time is up. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Knight. Your time is up. [[Applause]] For the closing of the question, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like you ever, Mr. Knight, to have meant something. To say that we do not spend the budget, when in 2020 we had a deviation of EUR 60 million in the Galician Union deficit, it is an absolute lack of public accounts. To say that they sent us, I don't know how much money for the vault, when it turns out that we spent 90 million euros more than we were sent to cover management, it's a lack of respect for most of the Greeks. That's why you come here, sponsored by your bosses, pose what you want, but you don't care! It turns out that if there's a MP, it doesn't distribute funds properly in municipalities, and if there's other MPs in the Socialist Party, it distributes them perfectly. [[Murmurs.]] Look, a little respect and a little sensitivity... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u28	...with a minimal approach to a policy of height. Mr. Knight, look, how does the Government of Spain distribute funds to autonomous communities? I think we should talk about this here. Because it turns out that, for example, in infrastructure, the Government of Spain reserves 78% of European funds and the autonomous communities give them 9%. Do you know how much Galicia gives? Fifty million euros, to the autonomous community. And now it turns out that we have to split up with the municipalities -- by the way, it only gives the municipalities of over 50,000 inhabitants -- [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] That's an integral view of the autonomous community, Your Honor. Conservation and restoration of terrestrial marine ecosystems, 4 % to Galicia; 1.700 million for supply and sanitation. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what you give us, Your Honor, the government you defend? Give us 2.5 million for the Monterroso EDAR. And now you come to tell me here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u29	Mr. Orange, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u30	...that we have to transfer the money that corresponds to our European funds because you are unable to negotiate with your own Government that municipalities are part of the fund? But it's a statement in every impotence rule, Mr. Knight! Look, the system of self-financing was first broken down in forty years of democracy by the Central Government. According to that system, Galicia has 2,789 million of the entire fund distributed by the Government of Spain. Do you know how much we've been reduced or what's ours? EUR 681 million. And with that decrease systematically, it continues, keeping Galicia always among the three autonomous communities that less money receive from all the sectoral conferences, from all the ministries of central government, you come up to say that we have to share the money that is ours. And besides, we have to be quiet, it won't be, Your Honor, that they get angry with us just for asking what's ours. [[Murmurs.]] It's insulting, Your Honor, it's arbitrary, it's opaque and it's harmful to our interests! [[Murmurs.]] And they still suggest that we give up health funds, infrastructure, social policy, education... You have all my support, Your Honor, so -- if you still send something and if the Spanish Federation sends something -- if you ask the central government what the role of municipalities in the next generation funds is. [[Murmurs.]] But please don't be mistaken for anyone to claim. I understand, Your Honor, that at this moment in Moncloa there is a lot of work. I understand that between the maneuvers in Andalusia -- be careful, Mr. Knight, look what happened in Andalusia--... [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u31	Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u32	...and marketing operations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u33	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u34	Your honor, do not pay for your frustration with the public services of the Greeks. Mr. Knight, clarity in the principles...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u35	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u36	...justify the distribution and objectivity of the distribution of funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u37	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u38	I don't come here, Your Honor, make a speech against the municipalities -- for that you're already--
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u40	...I come here to tell you that Galicia is a political entity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u41	Finish, president. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u42	...that the autonomous community represents the state and that we have 50% of Spain's public spending on Autonomy. And I'm not willing to receive municipalism lessons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u44	...of those who simply use...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u46	...the principles to block...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u47	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u48	...the public services of the autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u49	Your time is over, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u50	Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u51	Thank you. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, about the forecasts to undermine the bill of light
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u52	Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u53	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, Galicia is rich in electricity, but it does not benefit from that wealth. Families and pemmes are paying more and more for the bill of light, 14.31% of the Greek households suffer from energy poverty and thousands of jobs are threatened by the price of energy. And in the meantime, we pay environmental and social costs, because producing electricity means having the country full of cheers and involving more than 4,000 airlines in 106 municipalities. And in case this was little, it now implies a predatory wind boom which is a bomb for the rural environment for the service of the electricians and against the country. [[Applause]] The bill of light goes up year after year, and everything indicates that this month in which we're going to see a maximum history. And this is happening with PP governments and PSOE governments, thanks to that perverse game of turning doors and a system made according to the electrics that allows them to have multi-millionaire benefits. In 2020, in the middle of the pandemic, Endesa increased its profits by eight, EUR 1,394 million; and Iberdrola earned EUR 3,610 million. It's an indecency! And in this context, what is the contribution of the president of the board to disrupting the bill of light in a country that produces electricity from scratch? What's your contribution? For the truth is that none; well, none, there is one: vetoing a Welsh electric tariff; that is, twelve years of veto, twelve years preventing the light from the Greeks and the Greeks, families and businesses, through a fair, social and feasible measure. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And everything -- well, Mr Feijóo told us in this Parliament -- because in Madrid they wouldn't understand it. Mr. Feijóo, what the Greeks and the Greeks don't understand is why they can't have a cheaper light bill in an electricity-rich Galician. What the Greeks and the Greeks don't understand is that we have the mountains full of mills, the rivers full of cheers and with no benefit. What you don't understand is why you refuse to narrow the bill of light with a Welsh electric tariff; a differentiated rate like the one that exists in many countries around us. Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Switzerland, Germany and the United Kingdom are countries that have different rates and where producing areas pay a cheaper bill, because it is truly common sense. And the question is, why not in Galicia? So this has two very clear answers: the first, because the electrics command more than the governments; and the second, pure political centralism, than you are complicit. [[Applause]] So, Mr. Feijóo, I ask you, what are you going to do to undermine the bill of light? And it surprises us today, because it would be nice if I once answered this question and didn't come to Parliament to blame the BNG and his spokesman for all the evils of the universe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u54	Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, before you comment on our position in relation to the price of light, it would be good to make it clear that we do not disinform the Greeks. Look, from what a Welshman pays for his light, 25% is the cost of production, it's the marketing margin, and 75% are taxes, premiums and recharges. And what are those taxes, premiums and charges? The charges, for example, of the extra insularity -- are paid less on the islands -- renewables premiums and tariff deficits, plus taxes. Springs and renewable energies: we are paying the premiums of the renewable energies of the Socialist Government of Mr. Zapatero, in which, by the way, you were participating. Tariff deficit, €29 billion. All Spaniards are paying in their receipt the tariff deficit caused by the Socialist Government's fragile energy policy that you supported. And then comes the tax share of 21% of VAT; in Germany, 19%, in Ireland, 13%, in Italy, 10% and in Greece or Portugal, 6%. That's exactly how the electric charge is composed. What was your proposal when they ruled in Madrid with Mr. Zapatero? Inefficient renewable premiums and tariff deficit. What do we have to do now? Pay, pay and pay the accumulated debt of the tariff deficit, and renewable premiums, more than EUR 35,000 million. That's the reality of the energy policies that you supported and we denounced. There are only two options, Your Honor: reducing taxes, charges and fees and making an efficient energy policy based on renewable policies and sustainable renewable energies. What is the position of the BNG? Boycott; boycott increasing the hydraulic power, boycotting the marine wind, boycotting the terrestrial wind; and yet above putting the blame on the Greeks of all this. And now you come with a thug, the Welsh electric fare. It doesn't stop being a slogan more than the BNG party. They've been explaining this for so long that it's only a slogan. What laws would you have to change, Your Honor? What are the legal grounds, Your Honor, for doing this? How would consumer equality be guaranteed? Your Honor, what would happen if Galicia were weak? Because if photovoltaics, for example, had prospered in the south and had been a powerful increase in energy, who would pay for transport and evacuation infrastructure? What would be the real openings for the Greeks? But this mantra, really, Mrs. Pontón...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u57	...was never explained by the BNG; and, of course, never agreed with its government partners, for nothing! Why does this question not make it to its government partners in the government bodies that it has in the municipalities and in the deputies? It would be good if the BNG ever realized its proposal: what laws have to be amended? What are the legal grounds? The neighbors of the Peares would pay less -- I suppose -- because we have three coronations next door; and the neighbors who have no coronation guess they would pay a little more. [[Murmurs.]] Would it be, Your Honor, appropriate for the citizens of Castile-Leon to pay less than the Greeks because they have more energy installed? And that we'll keep paying attention to the BNG Party, those with marine wind.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u59	...and those who take advantage of the Earth wind will surpass the Greeks in energy production, and then the Greeks would start paying more than those territories. Mrs Pontón, don't you realize that we are in a solidarity country where the costs affect everyone? It's just that you only have a slogan, unfortunately misleading, for the interests of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u61	Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u62	Thank you, President. For the reply, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u63	Mr Feijóo, you've been president of the Galician Union for 12 years, and every time there's a problem, instead of looking for a solution, what you do is come to this Parliament saying that it's the fault of the BNG and mine. This, Mr. Feijóo, is a portrait that, I don't know... first of all, really, is that it makes you almost ridiculous with this attitude, and secondly, it's a statement of political incompetence on the part of those who stand in front of Galicia's board. [[Applause]] And besides, you come here to tell me that I have to do your job as president of the board. The Greeks and the Greeks have the flooded country of chorus, we have hundreds and hundreds of mills in our country, we have electricity and we export more than 35% of that electricity, we have no benefit, and the President of the Union's response is to attack the BNG. It's just that it's a demolition portrait of a president who can't put any future alternatives on the table. [[Applause]] And, look, of course, there is a fundamental problem, and that is that we have a regulatory framework that approved the PP, which keeps the Socialist Party and that, in the end, we know that those who decide it are the electric ones, and that is a democratic problem in the Spanish State, which affects us all, but that means an energy policy for Galicia. And the big thing is, when we have families economically drowned, paying more for the bill of light, when we have companies at risk for the prices of electricity, the president of the Galician Union comes here to attack the only proposal on the table to disrupt the receipt of light. And it is a proposal that, in the end, we do not invent anything, Mr Feijóo, because, in the matter of electric tariffs, ask them, then, you, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, the United Kingdom or Germany how it is possible that they make differentiated tariffs that benefit the producing areas and this in the Spanish State is a taboo. It is a political problem, indeed, where we have to demand solutions. And of course we have it. We have a concrete proposal made by law that we are going to bring to this Parliament for a lower tariff for the Greeks and the Greeks, to compensate for environmental and social costs, and because it is cheaper to distribute electricity next to where it happens than 600 kilometers. It is a matter of common sense, Mr. Feijóo, and you will have to explain why you are not willing to stand on the side of the Greeks and the Greeks in a matter vital for the future. I think the problem is that, since you have no solutions to Galicia's problems, surely in the replica it will bring problems beyond this House, because that's what's marking you from Madrid your party leader, Mr. Casado, clearly captive to the strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u65	...of the extreme right. I imagine in the replica you'll come here to tell us about Catalonia and the pardons. In any case, I'd like to know that pardons defend you. Will you defend the People's Party's pardons to politicians convicted of corruption, politicians convicted of terrorist actions, judges convicted of pre-emption, or military convicted of falsifying the evidence of... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u66	Please finish, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u67	...Yak-42? Mr. Feijóo, Galicia needs a president to stand before. It's all right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u68	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u69	...that we have no benefit for our electrical wealth. He's in his hand to change that frame...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u71	...but you have to decide whether to defend Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u72	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u73	...if you defend your interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u74	Thank you. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] For the closing of this question, the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u75	Your Honor, my speech in the German Parliament is in no way conditional on what Mr. Otegi and Mr. Rufian think. Those, Your Honor, are your partners and your allies. [[Murmurs.]] If you think you're defending the Greek electric tariff by agreeing with Mr. Rufián, I suppose the Greeks will be with a huge smile listening to a nationalism as archaic as theirs and, by the way, so innocent and so unappropriate to the interests of the country. [[Applause]] I've been ruling here for 12 years, you've been in Parliament for 18 years. I know a lot about the things you've raised, and I know perfectly well when they were ruling with Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero -- don't you still remember? -- -- 30 billion euros we owe then. The energy between the year Zapatero arrived and the year that was last increased by 93%. You have been continuously and consistently complicit in that government, and now you continue to rule with the Government at which the price of light in June increases by 45%. And you come here to tell the opposition, that government and the Government of Galicia that you are very upset with your partner. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But a little common sense!, or what do you think, that people don't know that you are an ally of the Socialist Party? And that bothers him; it bothers him to do it. But if it's very easy, if it's very easy!If you don't want to be an ally of the Socialist Party, because you're breaking up with the Socialist Party. But if all the Socialist Party needs is that the People's Party lacks a vote for a majority and that the BNG lends that to the Socialist Party. If it's always the same, Your Honor! But, with all due respect, we had a proposal agreed on June 8 in this plenary on electricity policies and Galicia's position on this matter. Votes in favour -- according to the Journal of Sessions -- : Galician People's Party and the Nationalist Block Galego; votes against: 14, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. June 8th, 15 days ago. And after he's committed to energy policy and Galicia's stance, he's now here saying that it's the fault of the German Government and the majority group. But, Mrs. Pontón, you think the Greeks are so stupid! That, the People's Party, in Congress of Deputies, is considering reducing a tax on the value of electrical production, reducing regulated costs... BNG's position in Congress of Deputies: abstention. There you have to abstain, it won't be that we bother the partner; that is, the partner Sánchez, who is what he commands, who governs the interests of the BNG. [[Applause]] That's the reality, Mrs. Pontón, they deal with us one thing and after fifteen days they vote against what they have agreed. We agreed here to put down the regulated costs, the subsidies, the fees and the premiums, and arrive at Madrid and abstain; that's German nationalism. And that's why German nationalism, since you've been here, which has been here for 18 years, because, Your Honor, you're not very lucky at the elections. Why? Because the Greeks are perfectly aware. Between 2004 and 2011, energy in Spain increased by 93.5%. This is what we have to pay, Your Honor, and this is what we have right now. And, yes, Galicia is very rich from the electrical point of view, but you know why? Because we don't listen to BNG's policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u77	If by the BNG were, there would be no cheers; if by the BNG were, there would be no wind energy; if by the BNG were, of course, all this colonialism would have to take him out of the country. For what? I don't know very well, I suppose to live in a country with candles. Mrs. Pontón, are you really not going to take all the industrial capacity and energy capacity installed in Galicia seriously to make our country truly prosperous?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u79	This government, Your Honor, said no to more than 2,000 megawatts that the Government of Spain is authorized to install in Galicia and this government said no to 48 wind farms that wanted electricity, because it invades our environmental reserves and rights. This government will continue to work, without any doubt. By the way, Your Honor, this government has financed 25,000 Greek homes, the electric bond, the decrease in the price of light...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u80	Thank you, President. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u81	And while this government imposed on the electricians a 250 million-euro wind cannon tax, the Bipartite, the BNG-PSOE, the electricians put on them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u82	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u83	...the taxes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u84	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u85	To defend Galicia and defend the Greeks, Mrs. Pontón...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u86	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u87	...you still have so much to study. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u88	Thank you. [[Applause]] We continue. Let's go back to point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. Non-law proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Ms. Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the maintenance by the Galician board, for the course 2021/2022, of the same number of teachers as in the current course, regardless of the increase that may result from the extension of the educational offer
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u89	Amendments have been tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u90	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to defend the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. The beginning of the academic course 2020-2021 has been preceded, as we all know, by an unprecedented level of uncertainty as a result of the pandemic caused by the covid-19 which forced all educational administrations to take measures that guarantee the highest level of presence in the centres. The health recommendations and their compliance have been shown to be correct in fulfilling this objective. So I want to congratulate the entire educational community, including mothers, parents and students, but in a very special way to all the teachers, all the thousands of teachers who have held a normal course in extraordinary complicated circumstances. [[Applause]] Obviously, the maintenance of these interpersonal distances and the consequent reduction in the number of pupils in the classrooms assumed an increase in the number of units in the different stages and therefore necessarily an increase of the teacher to meet the new needs. According to the Government of Galician Union itself in a written response to a question from this parliamentary group, with regard to the course 2019-2020, the increase was of 43 units in childhood education, 113 in primary education, 425 in compulsory secondary education and 127 in bachelor's degree; in total, 708 new units. And of 240 teachers and 1,058 teachers of secondary education, that is, 1,298, and not 2,000 or 2,500, or 3,400, or that war of numbers in which we add up to the entire teacher, both the class and the one dedicated to reinforcement activities. Clearly, the support of the State Government from the beginning was clear and key to getting the autonomous communities to have the resources needed to meet the needs, especially personnel, that they had to deal with. We must necessarily remember that on June 17, 2020 Royal Decree Law 22/2020 of June 16 regulates the creation of the Covid-19 Fund and the rules on its distribution and release. This exceptional measure was based on the extraordinarily relevant role played by all autonomous communities in the provision of basic public services such as education, social services and health, considering, in addition, that autonomous communities should face this increase in expenditure in their accounts as a result of the pandemic in the face of a scenario of a significant decrease in available resources to provide coverage for these public services. And this rule regarding the distribution of the Covid-19 Fund between autonomous communities and self-employed cities determined that it would be done for tranches, establishing a 3rd stage, which was allocated with EUR 2 billion associated with spending on education. On September 2, 2020, the order determined the content of the final distribution between the autonomous communities and the cities of Ceuta and Melilla was issued and assigned to the Autonomous Community of Galicia EUR 93 million. In fact, it was 103 million euros from the Government of Spain to Galicia for education in front of the coward-19. And, of that amount, 96 million and a half corresponded to direct transfers to the Galician Union to be able to meet those extraordinary expenses. From the Government of the State, in particular from the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, and always respecting, of course, the ability of the governments of the autonomous communities to use these funds, it was decided that those corresponding to this section had as their aim the educational costs, setting as an example the recruitment of teachers, the empowerment of new spaces or other needs that they had to face. It is worth recalling here, ladies and gentlemen, that with regard to this amount the President of the Galician Union himself asked for freedom to allocate these funds to which the German Government considers, with the argument that we are already older and that we are allowed to make the corresponding decisions. It agrees with this way of acting, seeking that permanent confrontation, the People's Parliamentary Group has prevented the adoption of a non-legislative proposal in committee in which we ask that Parliament in Galicia be forwarded, before the end of the previous part-session, the detailed information on the fate of these EUR 93 million. This happened, ladies and gentlemen, in the Education Commission held on 27 November 2020. On February 10, this year, the Minister of Education and Vocational Training examined with the autonomous communities the activities of Vocational Education and Training within the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience; a plan that, as we know, despite some, was recently approved by the European Commission. These actions provide for investments of EUR 1.9 billion for the modernisation of vocational training, EUR 1,496 million in digitisation and EUR 1,118 million to prevent early dropout and improve educational outcomes. With regard to these 1,118 million euros, we are going to make a small breakdown: 681 million will serve the creation of 65.00 squares of the first cycle of public-owned child education -- something in which this autonomous community is not particularly sober -, 320 million for the implementation of an educational guidance, advancement and enrichment programme, known as the PROA programme, and 124 million euros for the creation of 1,460 units of support and guidance. Counsellor, thanking you for having the deference of attending the processing of this non-law proposal, you know that you issued a resolution on June 14 in which the network of personal and family support and guidance in Galicia is experimentally created and that 32 centres will be selected. Of course, the most striking of these resolutions is not that they select 32, but that you say these actions could be co-financed by the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training, when actually "co-financing" means that one party pays one percentage and the other pays the other, not the whole, which I think will be the case. They have a somewhat lax concept of co-financing. [[Applause]] Sanitary hygienic measures have recently been adopted for course 2021-2022 at the joint meeting of the Sectoral Conference on Education and the International Council of Ministers of Education and Health, which provide for small changes in the measures taken and which have proved successful in the course that has just been completed. For example, the mask will continue to be mandatory from the age of 6 years, following the stable groups of coexistence up to the fourth primary, which will strengthen cross ventilation measures and which can reduce the interpersonal distance from 1.5 to 1.2 metres depending on the evolution of the health situation. Reforms do not seem to be as enormous as they are to advance a very different future than they have lived in this course that ended yesterday. The Government of the State will allocate 13.400 million euros to the autonomous communities for the fight against the pandemic, and will also make available 10,000 million euros of the European Union's reactivating mechanism, a rapid investment fund that will allow this year to inject 8,000 million and another 2,000 million in 2022 into education, health and social policies. I was saying a few days ago in the Education Commission that we were talking about millions of euros as if they were bags of golosins, but, of course, a lot of money is going to come from the Government of the State to the autonomous community to deal with this new situation. Obviously, we have to turn adversity into an opportunity to accelerate the recovery of the education system, which has faced the pandemic after years of cuts and weakening and which must consolidate the reinforcements with which it has been strengthened during these months. And we must be able to approve this initiative in the Galician Parliament, because we have just seen how the People's Parliamentary Group voted in the Committee on Last Education that the Government of Galicia itself spent all of the funds it had budgeted on an educational programme. It is ridiculous from a political point of view that a government votes against executing an budget which it has approved. That is, of course, to be reflected in the years of the parliamentary process of an initiative and an budget. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the conditions that will take place in the next course will not be substantially different from those of this one. We have the assurance, as much as you do, that the Government of Spain is going to transfer to the Autonomous Community of Galicia and the rest of the autonomous communities sufficient budgets to maintain the same number of teachers we had in this course. So what is requested in this parliamentary initiative is that at least the same number of teachers as in the current course, regardless of the increase that may be associated with the new educational offer, because here it's not worth mixing everything. The new educational offer, of course, involves new teachers. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the educational system of the autonomous community, mothers and parents, students and teachers deserve this commitment from the Galician Union, because, I insist, they will not be subject to any additional budgetary effort, since they will receive the funds from the Government of the State, which, of course, are also to help the autonomous communities that are, of course, part of the State administration. Nothing else, for me, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u92	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u93	Thank you, President. When these dates were just one year for the educational community -- which had been reinventing for several months now to face this situation that came up to us -- it demanded that the Galician board do the duties, equip the staff centres and the resources needed, remember what was the debate taking place in the Council? They remember -- when the whole educational community reported that the problems they were encountering were focused on the lack of resources, training problems and the lack of staff -- what was the answer that was being given at that time by the Education Council? Do you remember when the centers were working, even in August, and the Education Council, the Galician Union, was engaged in that "pim, pam, pum" systematically throwing balloons out? Meanwhile, the professor was day and day at the cannon too and he had to wait six months to have a covered protocol, eight months for a special educational needs protocol, ten months -- with AVA correction included -- for distance teaching. Do you remember that happy idea -- allow me irony, Counselor, which I also thank you for being here -- of semi-presentiality in the second degree of bachelor's degree? Do you remember the correction, late, bad and drag, and the consequences for the educational community? Well, all of these questions have, as a recurring reason in their answer, the aspect that we are addressing on this initiative. And it's nothing other than the obsession and closure of the Education Council and the People's Party to reduce, even in a pandemic context, the recruitment of teachers in Greek public education to their maximum expression. And so since the BNG, we believe that this initiative puts on the table three reflections that the educational community demands and that we should address in its entirety. The first of these reflections, I think, somehow, goes to the very best of this debate that we are considering, and it has to do with whether, on the one hand, the problems experienced in the educational community are a set of problems or whether they also drink from the structure. In other words, the pandemic was an exceptional circumstance that forced us to take exceptional measures -- yes, so it was -- but also the pandemic highlighted problems of origin, structural problems, which we had in our country's public education system. The second reflection has to do with the technical and legal issues that we have right now on the table. And the third because it has to do with "what to do?", with the political plaice we have in front of this stage. Let's go for points. In the first reflection what I think, what we consider from the BNG, is that the pandemic has demanded -- of course -- important efforts. But these efforts were neither the same nor the same type, depending on what was the starting point for the centers and communities. So what is obvious is that no country, no society, could then be prepared for something like this, but the pandemic showed problems that were structural in the education system. He also highlighted strengths; among them, the role of the educational community -- so I also want to add to the gratitude for that effort -- that I was able to demonstrate that in the moments when we have to be up to it, he was able to give it to the breast. But the pandemic was the cause of many problems, but it was also mirror, it was evidence, of many others. Because the professor's hourly saturation -- which he implemented, by the way, the People's Party -- was already in our education system before the pandemic. The absurd bureaucracy that so many problems brought during the pandemic was also before. The ratios of 30 students per class -- to 35 could come in the case of the bachelor's degree -- because of that time increase and the loss of teachers in the public system was also before the pandemic. The social and geographic divide towards digital education was also before the pandemic. Digital training problems were also before the pandemic. And, therefore, the problem here is that this amendment of the PSdEG is what is the teaching that we're going to show for this course, what is the staffing of staff -- especially in the face of this course -- But we want to focus on what is the new model of teaching this country needs. Because here we have two options. The first option is to "dead the anger, the dog is finished," and I say well, once the pandemic has passed here, we're going back to the normal situation, obviously all the problems we had on the table because they didn't have the impact the educational community has been reporting. And the other thing is to learn from living; to learn that the pandemic has made it clear -- and so it moves the educational community -- that this country needs a strong educational system. And for that it is necessary to maintain -- this year -- and expand the teacher -- because, on the one hand, we must strengthen those problems that we have had over this time and from then on to remedy all the difficulties that have occurred throughout these two courses, which require that this professor be implemented -- but also to be aware that he is demanding the whole sector, the whole educational community, that a strong education system cannot afford to increase the ratios and the cuts of teachers that have been on the table throughout the entire decade of the People's Party. So this PNL refers to small changes that were made at the Sectoral Conference and at the meeting with the International Council -- the Education and Health Advisers -- which I don't know if some are as small as Mr. Álvarez said. But the truth is, on many of these considerations that were above the table -- among other things, the reduction of that distance of security from 1.5 to 1.2 meters, that few days ago told the minister himself that the door would also be opened to suppress these security distances-- we all know here how the People's Party plays them against those scenes. It was that same day, if I'm not mistaken, when President Núñez Feijóo literally said, "If the protocol that comes out at last is the one put forward in the sector, it will have an impact on physical distances and will also have an impact on the staff." --sic, literally-- So what we're doing is emptying that first thesis, which you were bringing here. And, therefore, it is true that these conditioners who set up at that meeting set up that possibility, but it doesn't make any obligation. And if it's true, you also have to see what happens to that fund-sharing. On occasion, the People's Party puts its hands here against these criteria of division and then in Madrid votes in favour of these same criteria. Let's hope it's not like that this time. What if it leaves on the table -- and the debate I think it's settled, the question of the kind of teacher that would be affected -- is that immediately 1,300 teachers are in the air with the changes that could be implemented if you didn't keep this number of teachers, and with the impact that this would have in one year when you need to strengthen the public system towards ratios; for example, 30 in the ESO -- as if you could become -- 35 in the Bachelors, more than 25 students in primary and child education -- that, by the way, we already had 144 classes that exceeded that number. And that goes against what the educational community is saying, what it has said and what it has pointed out in the Reactivation Commission, but above all what it is pointed out in the common sense. So our proposal -- and hence the sense of our amendment -- says that the education system went forward thanks to the efforts of professionals who were at the limit, the efforts of families and the efforts of students. The pandemic has shown that it is necessary to strengthen a public system that has, in the last decade, a 4.6% cut from teachers in public education, while increasing by 7.5% in private education and in concerted education; a public system in which we are today, in absolute terms -- with data from the Education Council itself, and it is true that it is a forecast for the course 2021-2021 -- in 31,480 teachers, when in 2010 we had 31,380. We're under the number of teachers a decade ago. Therefore, the education system aims to aspire to the ratios that deepen in the quality of education, to bet that we have as a goal, of course, that the teacher is maintained in this course and more to advance in the model 10-20-25 of ratios to meet all the demands we have in our education system. Obviously, this won't be right away, but that must be the goal. I think that very bad message we would be sending to an educational community -- which gave the best of you throughout this pandemic, which did not spare any effort, that did not save up delivery to get ahead of the most difficult courses we've had in decades -- if what we're now teaching all these people is -- once all these problems are going to look at the light, that we can get to the end -- where the exit door is. On the contrary, what the educational community is asking is that they do not want verbal recognition; what they want is a strong public education system, equipped with teachers, endowed with resources and that it supports the challenges that this country has ahead and that this educational community deserves for all its efforts. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u94	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Roder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. For the truth is, listening to the spokespersons on education, it is true that we should say that the Nationalist Block in Wales also has the opportunity to request this increase in ratios in Congress itself -- I will explain why --. And the Socialist Party could also have asked the Minister to implement these funds which the spokesman of the Socialist Group has presented to us here and to be implemented, above all, which corresponds to each autonomous community. And that could also have been done in this recent visit by Mr. Caballero to the Ministry, because, in view of this lack of funding, the Galician board is moving forward with the implementation of the Recovery Plan, which will have 1,250 extra teachers to strengthen the learnings that have been affected by the pandemic so that no one remains behind. And I would also like to say that Galicia is Spain's second autonomous community with the lowest teacher/student ratio, only behind Extreme and that, at the same time, if they are celebrating the most important oppositions in history, with nearly 4,000 places to stabilize teachers. We're about to close the most complicated school course in history, with a very satisfactory result thanks to the effort -- why not? -- of the entire educational community, which has had an extra investment of 162 million euros. Teaching, like the rest of society, must gradually recover normality, and for that we need a transition protocol that marks health patterns in terms of establishing -- as it should be -- personnel resources. Galicia will count -- and have no doubt -- with all the teachers needed for the next course, as it has been done so far. And, in fact, it's curious to hear the opposition in this House when they denied that the education system had more teachers as a reinforcement measure. They denied at the beginning of the course that this increase existed and now they have to recognize it and admit that their criticisms did not correspond to reality. We agree that it would be good to abandon a war of numbers with respect to the number of teachers in the education system, because the opposition plays with numbers down when the school course starts to denounce cuts and at other times it plays up to push for increments. We've come to recognize that there were reinforcements or that there were 2,300, that the Socialist Party says it's 1,800, or that the IGC union says it was 2,600. Well, look, there's got to be the right teachers at every moment to meet the educational needs of the Welsh student, who, as you know, don't have the same characteristics as all the courses. We have to adapt to our needs, we have to adapt to our ordinary times and also to our extraordinary times. And, of course, the Council in each school course assumes responsibility and with respect to the current legislation to determine the number of educational units; to determine the necessary child, primary and secondary education jobs, as well as teachers and specialists corresponding to the teaching centres. It was at the beginning of each school course, and it was also at the beginning of an exceptional course like that of the pandemic. Therefore, the number of teachers will be closed once the registration period and the final health protocols are completed, which are also so important. So this proposition is that -- in our understanding -- it aims to pre-utilize this matter, as the Socialist Party is doing, also with Mr. Caballero's own visit to the minister. And, by the way, if he wanted to be useful to the teaching of Greek, he could well take advantage of the visit to claim that the central government had realized how much of those state funds before, which corresponds to each autonomous community. And this isn't just claimed by the Galician Union, they also call for other self-governments. Even the president of the Valencian Community on May 19 asked for extraordinary funds to be able to cope with this pandemic, and this could well be done by Mr. Caballero on his visit to the Ministry. We don't want to think that the Government of Sánchez will deny Galicia what it gives to other autonomous communities. But, look, if you accept our amendment, the Socialist Party has the possibility that Mr. Caballero will ask Galicia the same thing that Mr. Ximo Puig for his community and also show that the minister complies with the autonomous communities to ensure that the course 2021-2022 can also be developed with all guarantees. On May 19th, the Central Government established for the autonomous communities the conditions for the Education Protocol covered in course 2021-2022, and spoke of the resources that you have transferred to us here, Mrs. Albert, at your initiative. But it is not just the announcements, they need to be put into practice, and what corresponds to each autonomous community. And we insist on the creation of funds, which is very important, because we don't want it to happen again with the distribution of previous funds, where the impact of school transport and the impact of spending on dining rooms Galicia has not taken into account. That change of opinion assumed Galicia to lose nothing more and nothing less than 36.3 million euros. Because the truth is that it gives more and more the impression that European funds, when they go through Mr Sánchez's hand, end up harming them and they end up cutting them, which, according to established criteria, correspond more to Galicia. This is happening, we're seeing it, and the president announced it just minutes ago. Therefore, the Union and this parliamentary group demand that these state funds be implemented as soon as possible, and in addition to a protocol without ambiguities or changes of the last hour, since we all remember what happened on 27 August last year, because we need to be sure. And besides, these announced resources have to be used to improve the education system, but they also have to be able to be executed in chapter I of staff, because that's what you're talking about here. So I think this money has to come and it has to be executed where they need it. There are certain statements by the minister that give the impression that he gives advice and invitation, but for others to pay. So, I think on the subject of classroom ratios to the minister himself -- and that's why I told you, Mr. Lourenzo -- you've recognized that the ratios are determined by law. So if the ratios are determined by law, we hope the opposition doesn't expect the punctual adaptations derived from the pandemic to become a rule by the back door. And you know why? Because, if they become standard, we would be assuming an extra expense that would be appropriate for the State. So they play with this theme of ratios, when you just passed an Education Law, which was where you really had to incorporate that, and you didn't incorporate it. And you, the gentlemen of the BNG, who were so tired of applauding this law because they were removing the language from the vehicle in Catalonia, because they could also incorporate this debate into that law, because it's the key to the ratios. But, in any case, I want to tell you and remind the members of this House that before the Galician pandemic there were 10.3 students per teacher and that after the pandemic we are currently in 9.3 students per teacher, who are located in the second community in Spain with the best ratio. Therefore, within that margin of rising and descending, Galicia does its duties and bets on the ratios, as it can be believed with the data I just moved them. I think this course started with a lot of uncertainties and we started a new course with different nuances, mainly because of the advance of vaccination. That assumes that you have to be, of course, prepared and that you can't go down the guard and you can't go through the brakes either. We have to adapt to needs. And, of course, I want to refuse here that it is in doubt that the Council does its duty to provide the education system with the teachers it needs. I therefore believe that the amendment we tabled maintains the body of the amendment of the Socialist Party. We call for the same number of teachers to be maintained as in the current course, whenever the health and hygiene measures are maintained by the educational health authorities to deal with the pandemic and the Central Government is effective in bringing about the specific resources, such as the Education Covid Fund, to be used for the recruitment of teaching staff under Chapter I. I believe these are two very important matters that can well be supported by all members of this House. Finally, Galicia bets on a transition protocol with an integral vision to soon recover normality in teaching, to ensure health security and, at the same time, to provide quality and equity. And of course, in order to maintain these measures, what we demand is that these funds be implemented and implemented as soon as possible. In any case, I want to tell you that, in our view, Galicia is in an early position, since we occupy the first position in the state with the highest investment per student in the communities of the common regime, which is EUR 6,932, which represents EUR 1,200 more than the average of Spain. We are the second community -- as I said -- with the best teacher/student ratio; and the Welsh education system counts on Spain's lowest rate of interinternity, 7 percent, to strengthen education. He just introduced the Plan Recover and is working on the incorporation of these 1,250 teachers. We need to keep moving on in a model of strengthening learning, improving emotional well-being and giving it a boost...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u97	...to the model of sheltered centers. Nothing else, Mr. President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u98	Thank you, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Roder, I'm not sure what I'm glad you're following Mr. Caballero's schedule with particular intensity, and I'm not sure what I'm glad you're looking forward to the visits Mr. Caballero makes to the various government ministries of the state. But I also tell you: I doubt very much that Mr. Caballero submits to the consideration of the People's Party with whom he has to interview and with whom he does not. He must do what he deems appropriate, he likes the People's Party more or less. [[Applause]] Yesterday, we attended quite documented interventions in this plenary, including Milan Kundera and Maslow. I don't want to be less, either, I'm going to quote a 1953 Nobel Prize in Literature, Winston Churchill, who said he only believed in the statistics that he personally manipulated. This is the reality, Mr. Roder. [[Murmurs.]] You come here with a serious speech, as Mr. Counsellor would say, in which they automatically assume that the Government of the State is not going to transfer to them the funds it's finally transferring. I still have to document the fact that the Greek students during the pandemic started twice in the school dining room, because it turns out that we have to take into account the school dining expenses that the pupils in Galicia have in order to distribute the funds. And also that they were twice a day in school transport -- obviously, understood as a double trip back and forth -- You're still installed in that rhetoric. And, of course, the problem, as Mr. Lourenzo said, is this, Mr. Rodeiro. He's not black on white; he's black, blue, and a few drops of red on white. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a chart.]] This is the reality of the evolution of public education teachers from 2006 to 2020. What's the matter? That between 2006 and 2010 there is a continuing increase of the teacher, and between 2010 and 2019 there is a decrease of 1,440. This data I guess they won't question us; I haven't manipulated this statistic, since it's data from the Education Council itself in its annual memory, which it presents on educational data. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen -- because they say it's always very convenient to put a face and name on people and things -- that suddenly disappeared the equivalent of 20 Galician parliaments converted into teachers and teachers, which is the ratio that gives the division between the number of teachers who have been reduced and 75. Or imagine that suddenly 58 clauses of 25 teachers disappear from Galicia. For this is the division that makes that decrease by 25. This, Mr. Rodeiro, is the reality. And the fact is, as Mr. Lourenzo said, it's a structural problem. I was saying in my first intervention -- and I know it's a phrase that's a common place -- that you have to take advantage of crises as opportunities and that you have to get back the number of teachers who have the Greek public system. You have to get it back, Mr. Rodeiro, because you say what you say will have enough money to do it. That more students can be put into class again because the health protocols so determine? Perfect. But we have very serious, historic problems, as a result of this reduction, such as whether or not the students repeat, whether or not offered sufficient optativity to the student or the recovery of the teachers' working conditions in relation to their hours. So there's a real lot of problems pending to solve, and you can take advantage of them right now. I insist, if the number of students can be higher by class, take advantage of you to correct structural problems that the Greek educational system has. Because, look, when you say that you have an extraordinary amount of funds covered to do matching works for an amount in the budgets of around 19 million euros and you tell any citizen: what do you think you're going to spend on the Education Council these extraordinary funds, which are to solve the problems I cover? Well, as you have to make new spaces, you can believe that, at best, where there are three classes, you have to do two, you have to remove taboos, you have to do fitting works, you have to build new spaces, etc. But when you go to the Galician Recruitment Platform and check that there are works for about 10 million euros, that are substitutions of covers in the centers or pavilions, because it's not particularly difficult to understand that there is an inadequate use, at least from a conceptual point of view, of funds and their original destiny. So, Mr. Rodeiro, we're not going to accept your amendment, and look at how strange it is that with this non-acceptance, the initiative will not go forward. Call me clear, but I think things will go that way. [[Laughter]] Nor are we going to accept the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, because, of course, the debate on the reduction of ratios is an absolutely different debate. Important? Yes, because there is a link, not direct; not direct, not as obvious as it is believed to be between a reduction in ratios and an increase in school success. In any case, the point of our initiative is to keep the same number of teachers for the next course, taking advantage of it that will come out of it for free, because, unlike what you say in the case of the Government of Spain, this when you invite, you pay. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u100	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular, at the initiative of Da María Guadalupe Murillo Solís and five other Members, on the defence by the Galician Board of Financial Self-Government and Regulatory Capacity in Tax Matters and the demand to the Government of Spain for the reversal of the amendment of Article 36 of the Law on Income of Physical Persons, which provides for the draft law on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u101	No amendments were tabled. To defend the non-law proposition Mr. Puy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year we are celebrating the 40th anniversary of access to Galician self-government within the framework of the 1978 Spanish Constitution. My party has had the honour, by the trust given repeatedly by the Greek people since then, of being the lead actor, with the collaboration of opposition, of building, consolidating and defending self-government. A defence of self-government which, among other things, expresses the federal character of the Spanish political system; a political system in which, as in the rest of the federal countries, there are disputes about the exercise of powers between the State, the central administration and the sub-central entities. And this development of self-government took place everywhere, in the institutional, political and economic fields, but there are two areas that have been particularly relevant for the consolidation of autonomy. First of all, we have developed Galician civil rights. Galicia's own civil right is recognized by the Constitution in Article 149.1.8, and is included in the Statute of Autonomy, 27.4, and led, after much work through the Supreme Commission of Civil Rights of Galicia, to the adoption by this House -- by unanimous vote, as was one of the symbolic norms of our cultural being and the basis of self-government -- by unanimity of Law 2/2006, by civil law of Galicia. That law includes, as you know, two figures of our own civil right, which are the successor pacts of improvement and departure, which consist of Galicia's own legal business. There is some other autonomous community that has similar figures, but they basically consist, as Pablo Sande explains, in his excellent Italian Dictionary of Justice -- and I quote Professor Sande, now a magistrate, because it was the first one who gave us classes of Civil Rights to the generation just after the Transition at the Faculty of Right of Compostela University, which was quite strange on those dates -- in covenants that lead to the delivery of full domination of goods in the present; covenants that are irrevocable and that prevent the reservation of faculty of disposition by the causer, by whoever gives the good in succession. In fact, it is a figure so clearly successor that it cannot be compared, for example, with the prayers, because even the law itself foresees mechanisms of defense of the other heirs, who can be heirs who have the right to their quota, to defend themselves against such covenants exceed the hereditary portion that corresponds to each heir. Obviously, that there is this figure may like more or less in Galicia or outside Galicia, but the fact is that it exists and that the Constitution, Statute and Law recognize it. The second specific question where we develop self-government is fiscal autonomy. Again the Constitution, in Article 157, recognizes the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, and the Statute, in Articles 42 and 44, also recognizes it; LOFCA provides for the mechanisms for the exercise of that fiscal autonomy, and basically it is the own taxes and taxes handed over with normative capacity, because, in addition to spending, we have more capacity for autonomy by participating in the state's income, either through participation in state taxes or in the state tax system. Well, here we develop our autonomy, we regulate one of the tax yields, which is succession tax. At this point, first-degree heirs or spouses who receive a million euros are exempt from paying the tribute. It's a fiscal policy decision. Succession tax is controversial, there may be different opinions as to what the burden should be. We think this is a measure that is quite well adjusted to incentives for savings with fiscal justice, because it excludes heirs of the highest degree and, of course, those who receive more than the specified amount. It may be controversial, but the fact is that it's a fiscal autonomy exercise that exercises most and that in future the majority can change, it can change freely. So we're talking about the exercise of the right of autonomy in two areas: the development of Galicia's own civil right or the development of financial autonomy. The combination of the two regulations led us to the fact that this instrument had gained a lot of social importance at a time of crisis. Nothing less than 140,000 Galicians and Greeks were beneficiaries of successor pacts, mostly Thursdays, thus fulfilling the social function of power to be emancipated, of being able to undertake a business, at a time when it was extremely complex and complicated to capitalize on the beginning of the lives of new people; and often also the old social function that they had, to guarantee by the cause, of what makes inheritance in life, care, which was one of the issues that traditionally developed this figure. Uncomprehensibly, as it is well known, the State Tax Agency did not just understand the legal nature of death caused by these covenants, treat it as if it were an inter-living prayer; therefore, rather than understand that there was a cause of death operation, it understood that it should be taxed by the IRPF, which had to be regarded as a heritage gain. Since it is often goods that were acquired in the past, it was the updating of the value and incorporated the basis of the IRPF. You know there was a long legal conflict. The High Court of Justice has repeatedly ruled against the Tax Agency and finally the Supreme Court has made matters very clear. By the way, we had to bring him to Parliament and we had to ask the Tax Agency to stop doing that interpretation. Unfortunately, only the courts convinced the Tax Agency that it had stopped treating the Greek successor pacts as what they were not. Our surprise is that, once this is resolved judicially, the Government presents in Congress a draft anti-fraud law in which it amends an article of the Law on Income Tax for Natural Persons -- or 36-- which equates and considers tax fraud any operation by which a living heir proceeds to the sale of the property, and necessarily must be considered the initial value of the acquisition of the cause and not the value of the moment, which is already updated, as a result of the application of the tax on successions. Obviously, this reform goes against the civil right itself because it distorts the meaning of irreversible unconditional transmission and full domination of good, because it puts a limitation through a fiscal rule, and, of course, it also violates the fiscal autonomy of the Autonomous Community, which can be shared or not, but is making a successful policy of capitalization of new people at the beginning of their working or personal life. It's serious because, in addition, the Tax Agency has tools to combat fraud, as when there is fraud with any other legal business covered by the Civil Code. The Tax Agency may consider that there is a simulation, it can prove that the money it receives the heir has been returned to the father, in case it was that way of fraud, and it also has evidence elements and effects. What is true and is much more comfortable for the Tax Agency is to consider that all the Greeks who sell or inherit in the lives of their parents are defrauders. It also creates a problem of retroactivity, because there are many people who have already received goods and who, once they acquire them under conditions, it turns out that they now contemplate that, if they want to sell them, they have a completely different tax legislation. The proof that this goes against Galician civil law and our financial autonomy was the practically unanimous reaction of all the juridical voices, of the Supreme Commission of Galician Civil Rights itself and even of some professor -- that I recognize his courage, against what his party says -- like the professor of Round Churches, of the right of Santiago, who cried out against this reform. Only one inspector of Fairy, Julio Ransés Pérez Boga, who wrote in a German newspaper, in La Voz de Galicia, who was very good at this decision because "...we detected in many cases that were fraudulent operations. It is a very fair change, although perhaps of anger to the Galicians, because we had a way of not paying taxes. But it was not fair, compared to other autonomous communities." I mean, if there's any fraud, all fraud. And he also questions fiscal autonomy, because he says he doesn't like the taxation that these pacts have in Galicia. The surprising thing is that the Socialist Party and We can from the Government support these arguments. And we -- I know there's an amendment, then in the sure replica I'll have an opportunity to talk about it -- we understand that it's not from receipt that Galicia's fiscal and financial autonomy or Galicia's civil rights are violated. Moreover, the mere fact that there is an amendment that reduces the validity of this presumption to five years, what it does is to recognize that Galicia's own civil right was being violated. In fact, the Socialist Party itself, when it introduces the amendment, makes it manifest. Therefore, and since even with this amendment it continues to distort Galicia's civil rights and financial autonomy, what we ask for is the House's support for asking for self-government, to request the deletion of an article that clearly violates Galicia's financial autonomy and civil rights and, in the event that this violation of Galicia's financial autonomy and civil law is maintained, we urge the Union to act and use all legal resources at its disposal to avoid it. We think that within the cultural manifestations that give meaning to our being and therefore also give meaning to our political autonomy, there is one that underlines, logically, that is the language; but there is another that is equally important, because it emanates from the people directly, in the same way as the language, which is the right. And that's why we call for the support of the House to suppress that consideration which distorts the meaning of the successive pacts of Galician civil law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u103	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u104	Yes, good morning. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Mr. Puy. This is the second time you bring this initiative to the House. It's been a few months since he brought it. The position of the PSdEG at that time was abstention; the abstention basically for two reasons: one, because we understood that there was no attack, as you design, on the self-government of Greek or on the tax capacity that gives the Statute and the Constitution to our self-government. There was no attack on the German civil law institutions. And we also understood that we were faced with a rule, indeed tax, of a technical nature, that sought from the position, from the perspective, of the Finance Inspectorate, to fight tax fraud, but we understood that it also admitted an improvement in its drafting. For these reasons we abstained. And a third reason for abstention was because the initiative was basically based on the attempt to maintain a constant confrontation with the Government of the State, a continuing wear from the Galician Parliament and from the Galician Union with all that it has to do with the Government of Mr Sánchez, and in that strategy it is also in which these kinds of initiatives lie. And it doesn't matter whether it's this kind of question or that it's another kind of question, like the vaccination strategy, the management of the pandemic... at the same time we're seeing how from the central government the decision to withdraw the mandatory use of the masks is made and is being questioned by the Galician Union in a powerful way and maintaining totally contradictory positions. A week ago Mr. Núñez Feijóo stated that Spain could not be late in that case of the withdrawal of the masks, and even these days we are seeing as questioning the political decision taken by the State and announcing that it will review such measures. Well, this strategy of confrontation is based on many of this Parliament's initiatives towards the Government of the State. [[Applause]] Mr. Puy spoke on his initiative -- he spoke on the first initiative he proposed in January, secondly, and now also -- that he seeks to defend Galicia's tax autonomy, Galicia's civil law and Galicia's own institutions. I think we all agree on that. Also -- you just mentioned it here -- in the construction of self-government and, therefore, of the institutions that emerge from self-government, was the Socialist Party. And, as we are at that point, we try to find solutions when there are problems such as those that actually emerge from a very improved relationship of the tax rule, which effectively amends Article 36 of the IRPF Law. You, along your initiative, raise a lot of issues. It plans that, finally, in the area of fiscal policy, the electoral processes effectively endorsed the tax policy of the Galician Union. I recognize that it is, but exactly the same as the electoral processes assess Mr. Sánchez's fiscal policy and not that's why you stop questioning it, stop criticizing it and stop amending it every day. And we also question your fiscal policy, which, contrary to what you maintain -- with absolute respect, which you know I have -- in your initiative, does not benefit the lower and middle classes, but benefits the most powerful classes. And you cited an example, the succession tax, where you clearly benefit the powerful classes of this country, the ones that have the most. And the benefit and exemption of a million euros is the evidence that, indeed, this is the case. We can talk about other taxes, such as property tax or property transfer tax, if we take into account the ability of income to establish the benefit, if there are tax subsidies, etc. You have the capacity to do your fiscal policy, and we also have the capacity to defend our fiscal policy, which, of course, has nothing to do with yours. With regard to the initiative, actually, as you know, today -- I believe -- if you are debating in the Senate, the instance of the Socialist Group -- and it is defended by a badger from this House, today Senator -- an amendment precisely to the current wording of article 36 included in that draft law on prevention and combating tax fraud, which introduces the amendment of the IRPF Law in article 36. We are defending an amendment to seek, precisely, a balance between the defence of the institutions of civil law in Galicia, the defence of the successor pacts and, therefore, of the self-government of Galicia, and at the same time avoiding conduct of tax evasion, of tax fraud, which they have actually detected since the inspection of the estate. It is an amendment that seeks to maintain the tax exemption in the IRPF, in the heritage transmissions derived from the acquisition of goods transmitted by successor pacts, as long as they have passed five years or always and when the cause dies. And in addition, a transitional regime is established, which prevents the rule from actually having retroactivity and, therefore, from prejudicing transmissions or acquisitions of goods by successor pacts made before the application or vigil of the rule itself. Therefore, the Socialist Group, through this amendment, seeks to find solutions and balance points in the face of a situation posed by a taxing technical standard which, in this case, naturally affects the institutions of the Italian civil law and which the Socialist Group tries to nude through the proper parliamentary process in the Senate and then in Congress. What we have to ask ourselves here is what is the People's Party's proposal, apart from proposing a deletion without more of the rules in question. I mean, did the People's Party, the MPs and senators of the People's Party try to find some kind of solution, some sort of consensus with the political forces, beyond the suppression? I think, in this case, no, because today we are going to vote and the People's Party is not in that consensus. We do not share certain types of statements that you make on the initiative. I understand that the rule in question -- article 36 -- deserves a more appropriate wording. The amendment planted it in this sense, gives it a much more concordant and respectful drafting of the German civil law and at the same time tries to avoid practices of tax evasion. We understand that, finally, what must be adopted is a standard that seeks a fair balance between avoiding fraudulent conduct and maintaining absolute respect for the Greek civil right, to institutions given by the self-government of Galicia. Because it is true that there are tax fraud situations. And it's true that Hacienda and the Tax Agency have mechanisms for the pursuit of these fraudulent tax practices, but also the rule can set obstacles to such fraudulent practices. It would also be appropriate to know and know -- you didn't alluded to that -- that this kind of rule, the amendment of Article 36, comes from a preliminary draft already contemplated at the time of Mr. Montoro, in which the dictates of the Council of State -- that you suppose you have read, and I, too, that I have here -- supports these kinds of issues. So in the end, beyond that we can actually share that we must defend Galician self-government institutions -- civil law and successor pacts, with which we are absolutely in line -- we also understand that through these types of figures we can commit practices of tax circumvention, fraudulent practices, and that we must actually fight them. So we are going to maintain our position pending what is the solution and the decision taken in the Courts of State, where the amendment is currently being debated, which we believe is going to be in favour of the Senate and that when the bill returns to Congress it will be ratified. And from that point on, we understand that a balanced solution is being produced for a problem generated, in this case, by the drafting of a technical-tributary rule with an impact, indeed, on a civil law institution in Galicia, as are the successor pacts. A transitional regime is established. Therefore, there is no legal uncertainty in this regard, there is no retroactive application of the rule with the amendment proposed by the Socialist Group and it does not affect Galician autonomy -- Galician autonomy, tax autonomy and self-government are still intact; the only thing that can affect Galician autonomy, Mr. Puy, tax autonomy and the capacity of Galician self-government is that your party -- not you, of course -- continues to deal with Vox, with that party that does not want to liquidate tax autonomy, is that you want to directly liquidate the autonomous state. That's the danger I see here. On the other hand, you just recognized and just said exactly that you were right as the Socialist Party poses an amendment in the Senate that gives some coverage to its proposals. And I give you absolutely the reason, but give me the benefit that the solutions, in this case, are looking for them by the Socialist Party, apart from any consensus approach coming from the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u105	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Recent history teaches us that any crisis is being used by the Government of the State to advance political and administrative decentralization. Of course, this initiative for us shows that we are faced with a new attempt and that this crisis that we are living after the collapse of the coward-19 pandemic does not anticipate that we are going to have a very different result, and that makes it especially necessary to defend self-government. I would also like to begin by drawing attention to two important ephemerals that our country will live in the next few days about facts that were very important in our history. On June 25th, we will see the 90th anniversary of the proclamation in Ourense of the Greek Republic in 1931, and on June 28th, the 85th anniversary of that plebiscite of the 1936 Statute. And, of course, today we are talking about a question that is already, irrespective of the political aspirations and the reflections that each political organization we are present with on the political and administrative framework, of minimal autonomy -- let me say --. I'm sorry that we see as once again a part of this Parliament that is going to get out. We, since the BNG, will once again give our support to this issue, consistent with several questions: firstly, with our defence, throughout our history, of the Italian civil law, which we have always done as a political force at other times, in other attempts also to recentralize it in this area; also in coherence with the work we have carried out at the Congress of Deputies, warning that this issue had a wrong approach, that we could no longer take advantage of the transposition of a European legislation on fiscal election to assume that all the Galician and Galician who are welcomed to this historical figure are automatically frauds; and that, of course, it was a bad step that the Central Government failed, not only the Greek demands, but a question that affects other communities such as Catalonia or Balearics. But we are also going to give a yes, not only in coherence with the defence of the self-government of the Greek, but also with the majority of society, because we are thoroughly convinced that this proposal is disguised as progress and the pursuit of fraud, but that it is wrong to focus on and, therefore, seeking exclusively to collect, applies a presumption of guilt that, in addition to being unfair and initially retroactive, in times of crisis would bring serious consequences on the weakest sectors economically. I also wanted to leave here a reflection, as has already been done in previous interventions: since in January we discussed another initiative of the People's Group on this issue too -- which also counted on our support -- many things have passed, and one of them was that amendment of what has already been discussed here in the field of the Senate. I agree that this amendment is not enough, that it does not put a solution to a text that already starts from a wrong approach. And, of course, I consider -- we've considered since the BNG -- that, beyond that insufficiency, what it does is to partly acknowledge the error and try to correct it. It's a clear symptom, evidence, that the Greek claim, but also the demand from other parts, is solid and reasonable, if you look beyond -- I insist -- of the Madrid embigu. Of course, I regret that this was once again reaffirmed by the Socialists what they already supported in this House a few months ago that this was merely a technical change, that this was a mere interpretation of the Supreme's ruling of previous judicials, that it was not an attack on financial autonomy and that it was to avoid abuse of something simply anti-tax fraud. Of course, we totally disagree with these statements. And also, one reflection: there are not very few criticisms we make from the Galician Nationalist Block of this almost independentist momentum that sometimes enters the People's Party in this country since Pedro Sánchez governs. But the hemerotheque is also there, and it must be acknowledged in justice that in 2014 the People's Party in Central Government was ruling, and this Parliament remained unanimously -- also the majority group -- in defence of Greek civil law. So, I think, beyond the criticisms that we can make to the current situation -- and that many of Mr. Rivera's statements we also do and share them -- the bottom line is that we can disguise the debate here. But we haven't come here to discuss fiscal policy -- that we don't like, that we don't share and that we always amend in budgetary debates -- that the majority group does, because here we're not talking about what the recording is going to be or what it's going to be the tax of successions and prayers, but we're discussing something else: whether we're going to respect the German civil law or not and whether we're going to apply the presumption of sole and exclusive guilt for the state to trigger more. And, of course, we understand that in this matter there is a evident and evident intrusion into our economic and fiscal sovereignty and in a figure that is proper to the law of Greek. And I will no longer abound in other arguments that have been given about the deliberate confusion that takes place between acts between living and death cause and other matters. Of course, the reform that is intended for us is that it involves discriminatory treatment, also from a fiscal point of view, for those hereditary persons who receive life goods from those who do so after the death of the causer or cause. And in the latter case, we know that if the most hereditary person receives the goods after the death of the causing person and then proceeds to his sale he should only be taxed by the surplus from the time of receipt of the goods and until the actual transmission. And the problem is that with this reform, in case the hereditary person receives the goods before the death of the causing person and proceeds to engeneration, if he does so before the death, he must take over the surplus value, not since he receives it, but from the moment the acquisition of the property by the family member of what this person inherits. Of course, this division between those who have the fortune that their family remains alive or those who have the misfortune that it is no longer clearly absurd. And we understand that, in addition to the five-year proposal, which comes to recognize that there is a problem here and there is an intrusion, it doesn't happen with the final solution, because it's even an arbitrary time frame that doesn't seem to be able to solve this fundamental issue. And it doesn't even take into account proposals that have been made since other communities that have this same problem. For example, Balearics, I remember that the proposal he made was a year like a threshold. We understand that, in any case, we would be in the same context of intrusion and that the position would be the same, but, of course, it would be even more reasonable. But the five-year-old to decide whether or not it seems to us, at least, a somewhat irrational question. I would like to stress, before I finish, in a matter, which is also in the economic situation in which we are, the serious consequences that will have for our country and the role it has in this country the family heritage and these figures of our own civil right for the very maintenance of family relationships to take care work, or even at an economic moment like where we are, looking for ways of financing, ways of economic support. We will live and live many Greeks and Greeks in situations where this family heritage will be a lifesaver, and now they will simply have, above all, the presumption of criminals. Of course, it wouldn't be fair for the State Fairy -- we insisted -- to take advantage of this situation to think more of redistributing the resources that exist in this growing stock. This does not mean that we really support the fight against tax fraud, the strengthening of instruments such as the State Agency itself and the Atriga itself, the pursuit of large estate fraud and other measures to avoid such matters. But, of course, we understand that we are not talking about this issue here and that, in addition, the project -- I insist -- part of a legislative formulation that is wrong, because there is no fraud here, there is no concealment and there is no alleviation, only if you look for the collection. So we're going to support these demands. We think the Senate's processing won't give us a key to this problem being solved, and we think we're making a mistake, once again, with this country. I, at the beginning of my intervention, remembered that many things had passed in these months to the thread of that amendment, but we also saw the lesson that left all the way to the Greek demand for the return of the EVV, which had to go to the Congress of Galicia to the courts after that request had been supported by this organization as well. I think that also what happened to the IVE should make the central government reflect, first, because, in the end, they themselves are the ones that give bullets to the Greek Government on the political level, sometimes it seems almost that they have an infiltrator -- if I allow the joke -- but, of course, what has shown is that the way to apply the unique and exclusively conceptions from the Madrid embigument without caring for the self-government is not the right way. Of course, it seems that here we are going to repeat the same mistakes, which will be missed again in respect of our own institutions and that we will have to go back to the judicial route. And, of course, on a question that we understand that, in addition to being so basic and so minimal a defence of self-government, we have to regret that the position of this Parliament is not expected to be unanimous. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] To close the debate on this initiative, you have the floor of your author, Mr. Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me thank the Block for his intervention. I believe that on this occasion -- not always, and it didn't happen to the Health Law -- the Block was able to distinguish what self-government is from the concrete exercise that is done at one time. Because defending self-government also defends what one can do by exercising competence in the future, if one day the Government changes; so I think that's the right approach. Unfortunately, this PSOE, who does not fail to say that he is a Welshman, has not just understood this. Look, the amendment of the PSOE, when it comes to it, they say it's to improve the balance, to have a more respectful balance with civil law. But before this amendment you also here accused us of the same, of confronting, of saying that there was no problem; that it was a technical problem. The amendment itself shows that there was a problem with respect to civil rights. And the only amendment he does is to palliate it a little bit; it improves it. Before the heir had to wait for the father to die; now he has to wait for the father to die before five years or for five years. Well, we got better, because we listened to five years -- the father could live twenty-- but, of course, the bottom of the matter remains exactly the same. You're talking about solutions. The reality is, there's no problem today, today! There'll be a problem when you introduce that rule into the law. So when they say, they don't bring solutions. Hey, the solution is that you don't create a problem. For there to be no problem, it's best not to create it, because then, when it's created, it has to be solved; so we ask the Board that, in case you create a problem, defend Galician civil law in the courts. It doesn't fix the retroactivity either. Before the amendment it could be debated and interpreted that any successor covenant was after the entry into force of the law; that is to say, the successor covenant was realized and then sold. With his amendment, they bring back all successor pacts made five years before the bill was passed, if the sale occurs after the bill was passed. Therefore, anyone who had inherited five years until the passing of the law, if sold, had applied the law. That's what the amendment does. And if you don't understand it that way, repeat it, because they're in time to correct it again in Congress. It could first apply to successor pacts from the entry into force of the law; it now does not apply to successor pacts, it is to sales after the law. Therefore, all successive covenants five years before the entry into force of the law are subject to this taxation by the income tax of physical persons. Look, let me tell you something. Also when they passed this amendment, when they presented it -- indeed, this is due today to the Senate and whoever defends the amendment is an appreciated colleague, who was a Member of this House -- they said that an effort was made to improve the rule. Well, to improve the rule that the Socialist Party presented, not the rule that existed; that the rule that existed had no problem. But in addition, they say that PSOE is a useful training for the Greeks, while other parties like PP or BNG "were anchored in a useless position that eludes responding to problems." I mean, the government creates a problem, we warned you not to believe it, and you, on top of it, say we're anchored in useless positions just because we tell you not to believe a problem. On top of that, when we came up with these issues here, they start talking about what we're dealing with. We're not confronting, we're defending Galician civil law and Galician financial autonomy. And they say, they have no solutions. The solution is that an article is not introduced that discriminates against the successor pact in Galicia. It's as simple as that. That's the amendment presented by the People's Party and we hope that in Congress, because they recapitulated and reduced it to five years, they properly suppress it and tell the Tax Agency that, if there is fraud, investigate, as it investigates any sales, any rent or any other civil law contract that is fraudulently used. The problem with all this -- I want to take advantage of it -- is that what we're seeing -- and today you've been a magnificent exponent in this way of arguing about the Socialist Group in this House -- is that you first create a problem, and after creating the problem, when we with arguments -- in the House we do nothing illegal -- with amendments, in the case of successor pacts, we defend what we already believe, beyond our political agenda, is to defend self-government and autonomy, they immediately accuse us of confrontation. You don't care what it is. Here we're talking about successor pacts, but, for example, if we have to hire healthcare professionals, you keep the replenishment rate, and we ask you to remove the replacement rate to hire more health care, but the blame is for the PP, which doesn't hire, because you don't leave us. All Spanish municipalities ask for money from the Government of Spain, the Government of Spain does not give it to them, and it is the fault of Feijóo, who does not give money to the local governments of Galicia. It's our fault again. You create the problem, you don't share the funds with the municipalities, and then it's the fault of Together that doesn't share the funds. Okay. And the same with the distribution of funds across Spain. You are making criteria for the distribution of funds that clearly discriminate against Galicia, and the figures sing, added. All the funds we've received leave Galicia behind much of what would be in accordance with the LOFCA system, which sets out how much it costs to provide health, education and social services. And then you guys, when we protest, what they say is that we're confronting. No, we are not confronting or entering that absurd and easy-to-disassembly trap of the Socialist Group. Every time Galicia is discriminated against, every time we attack our self-government, every time you try to disrupt institutions like civil law institutions, they're going to have us here; not by confronting, but by defending Galicia, because it's our duty. And, as Mrs Bloc said, it is a pity that once again in the defence of self-government in this Parliament there is no unanimity. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We are debating the following non-legislative proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Martín Seco García and Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the maintenance of employment in the factories Xallas Electricity and alloys S.A. of Cee and Dumbria
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u110	This non-legislation proposal was amended by the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u111	Mr. Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u112	Thank you, President. I want to begin my intervention, once again, by showing the commitment of the Galician Socialists to the workers and workers of Xeal, in Cee and Dumbria, and the struggle for the maintenance of industrial activity and jobs, and also by a region that needs this industrial activity to face the future with a quality job for the neighbors. Our group received this month's 11th day at the request of the representatives of the Works Committee for a number of issues which we hope will soon be included in the agenda for debate in plenary or committee, since we could see that a group had registered this committee proposal. From our group we've announced you'll have the vote in favour. But today's proposal was registered on the 2nd of this month, nine days before this request by the company committee, and from our group we want to see the position of all the groups of this Parliament in the light of the request that the German Government enforce a judicial ruling which it has so far sought and establishes minimum criteria for employment in the factories of Cee and Dumbria, as set out in the legal grounds of the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia of 20 November 2020, which argues that the condition of non-segregation of energy and railway activities has been established to ensure the maintenance of the employment of a depressed country, such as the Costa da Morte. We have to say that this sentence is already firm. We hope that this judicial decision that came behind the demands of the staff and citizenship of the area of the Costa da Morte and its municipal representatives, which stemmed from a legal initiative of the Council of Galicia itself, is now articulated by the Government of Greece to establish guarantees for employment and industrial activity in the plants of Cee and Dumbria, as shown in the judgment, and that the Greek Government should not let it escape for the good of the citizenship to which it represents and for the future of a region like this. After talking to the mayors of the district, especially the mayor of Cee and the mayor of Dumbria, we understand the concern about the situation in which Xeal is found, popularly known as Ferroatlantics, at a difficult time when the new owners of the company do not give the necessary confidence in a uncertain future for the actions we are observing, and more, if it happens, before the end of the 28th February of the ERTE that they have activated after the toughest moments of the pandemic. The situation is similar to that of November last year, when I myself asked the ex-Director General of Energy and Mines about the situation of the factory and the plan of viability that the German Government had to demand from the company to ensure the activity of both energy and industrial activities, something that the Director General himself had admitted to parliamentary headquarters, but we have been waiting for almost two years to know whether the plan existed and whether it had been evaluated; something that, according to the information of the company committee itself, after meeting with the new director general, had already happened and had the good visa of the Board of Galicia. What we don't know is their content, since they didn't make it easy for workers' representatives, with an improper opacity of an administration that seems to have to hide something. While this happens, only 3 out of 5 furnaces are still running and low-loaded. [[Applause]] In 2017, the Ferroglobe Group submitted a request for segregation of hydroelectric and industrial activities from the Cee and Dumbria plant. With them he wanted to return to his original state the concessions of the rivers Xallas and Grande. It was the mobilization of the workers and workers of the factory, with strong support from the neighbourhood and also from the governments of the county councils, who made it possible for the Galician Union to reject this request, and in the statements by the president of the board here, in parliamentary headquarters, Feijóo said that he would go out to the company as many or more guarantees of job maintenance as he would ensure if the segregation operation was viable. In 2019 the Cee and Dumbria factory, together with the 10 hydropower plants of the Ferroglobe Group, were sold to a fund called TPG, for 170 million euros. The actions of the Ferroglobe Group went to the bottom that I've already said, keeping the previous social name, and with it the concessions for the production of electricity linked to the production of ferroallerations. We don't know the agreement between the new owners and the sales group, but we know that because of this, Ferroglobe became the only recipient of its production, while Ferroglobe committed to providing the new company with raw materials. It's important to know what this agreement is that we believe the Galician Union knows but is hidden to know if Xeal is free to have an industrial project or if it's just a Ironglobe makeup that looks like it's what really happens. In this June 2019, the president of the Union, at parliamentary headquarters, assured that his executive would work for industrial continuity and that he would demand an industrial plan to activate the Cee and Dumbria complex. In October 2019 our group asked the Industry Adviser to issue a feasibility plan from the new company, since the administrative authorisation granted in 1992 and the final resolution of 1994 established that the ownership regime could not be changed without administrative authorization, in addition to preventing the segregation of Ferroatlantic activities. Therefore, the sale should have been previously and expressly authorized by the Galician Waters, which was obliged to pronounce on whether the Ferroatlantic legal business was subject to prior authorisation and whether it entailed the presentation of a feasibility plan guaranteeing the activity of railways and specifying the continuity of the operation of all furnaces and the maintenance of employment. The Director General of Energy and Mines informed the committee that a plan for the viability of Ferroatlantics would be required when he formalized the full ownership of hydroelectric power plants and, in this way, the Government would proceed to apply for the industrial plan. He said, "...at a time when the register of the purchase option of the financial lease is formalized and the whole property of the hydroelectric power plants is in the hands of Ferroatlantics." That's what Mr. Tahoces said. In early 2020 the company began to call Xeal, Xallas Electricity and Alloys, and had more than 250 workers. In March 2020 the company's new direction in Dumbria and Cee presented to the mayors of the district their business plan, with investment and commitment from the two business lines, the alloys and the electricity line, with quality employment and with a joint development of the region. At this meeting, the management of Xeal informed them that they chose to maintain their jobs, despite the crisis in the sector and the uncertainty generated by the cowardice. As a result of the pandemic, we saw the application of an ERTE that guaranteed 100 % of wages for workers affected by quarantine, and we saw how, after that period, in September 2020, the company activated an approved ERTE in February 2019 before the sale of factories and hydroelectric power plants to the new owner, motivated by the continued decline in demand from the beginning of the year and aggravated by the crisis of the coronavirus, which caused a reduction in the production of steel-producing companies and the stagnation of the activities of the final customers. The said ERTE had a maximum duration of five months and included a salary supplement for workers affected up to 85 % of wages, maintaining 100 % of wages and holidays. The reality is that by 2020 the plants in Cee and Dumbria have been at 10% of their production capacity, with only 2 ovens of 5 running, and since the end of 2020 there have been 3 out of 5 furnaces, losing from 2019 more than 100 jobs between potential staff and auxiliary industry. It must also be emphasized that the new management of the company is taking away work from outside companies in the region to give it to foreign companies, against that link they promised to the county and the activity of the Costa da Morte. And recently he also carried out a dismissal from an administrative worker, which the unanimity of the company committee denounces, asking for his readmission, for what he's carrying out mobilizations. The ERTE of what we were talking about -- which, of course, was declared illegal -- ended in February, and the workers continue to demand a plan of viability, because the company does not build confidence, according to the start-up calendars of furnaces and real investments in which the factory guarantees production, which could assume that Xeal is focusing its future on exploiting energy resources, exacerbating the gradual deterioration of the factories and amortizing the labor force. The Galician Council cannot continue to look elsewhere, and it must guarantee the maintenance of jobs and the activity of railways, according to the legal basis of the decision of the Galician High Court of Justice of November 2020, which literally states that the condition of non-segregation of activities has been established to ensure the maintenance of the employment of a depressed region such as the Coast of Death and which, therefore, the Galician Union should set minimum criteria for complying with that condition laid down in the judicial judgment. For all this, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia presents this initiative for us all to urge the Government of Galicia to set minimum employment criteria in the factories of Cee and Dumbria, as those legal foundations of the judgment which is already firm of the High Court of Justice of Galicia of 20 November 2020, which argues that the condition of non-segregating energy and ferro-alleration activities has been established to ensure the maintenance of the employment of a depressed region, such as the Costa da Morte. Don't miss the opportunity you've given them justice, gentlemen of the People's Party. We have an instrument to guarantee employment and industrial activity in this company. They approve this initiative and discuss how to establish those minimums that guarantee the future of employment in such an important company for the Costa da Morte region as this one is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u113	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] To stand by this non-law proposal and defend its amendment, by the Nationalist Galego Block, Mr. Pérez López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u114	Thank you. President. Good morning to all of you. When we talk about Xeal, we're talking about a two-storey industrial complex, that of Cee and that of Dumbria, dedicated to the production of high-quality, highly valued and demanded railways in the market and, at the same time, ten hydroelectric power plants in the river Xallas. It should be remembered that the concessions for the use of these plants depend on the Galician Union and that they constitute an energy resource that belongs to the Greek people, and there is, in addition, an essential clause for linking the activity of factories and the production of energy. And with regard to this clause, it must be said that it has been shown -- and demonstrated -- as vital for the maintenance of jobs and the activity of factories. In August 2019, the two plants of Cee and Dumbria and the hydroelectric power plants changed their ownership. With this sale, the Villar Mir Group took off from the plants of Cee and Dumbria Ferroatlantica and the energy exploitation of the power stations, which became part of an American fund, TPG, which put the capital for the operation, and to the Spanish company Ithaka, which would deal with the management; an operation that was authorized by the Board of Galicia, who has the last word about the concessions of the power stations, and also by the National Commission of Markets and Competition. Since the time of sale, the Xeal Company Committee has publicly denounced the fraudulent nature of this trading of Ferroatlantic ownership. The obscurantism of this operation caused the fear of workers' representatives, who considered it opaque and speculative, as they implied that the true interest of TPG-Ithaka was in the substantial energy business. In this case, neither Ferroatlántica nor the American buyer fund acquired a written commitment to the future of these factories, nor did they give up or at the time explained to the representatives of the workers the content of the contract of sale or of the trade agreements between buyer and seller, which justified and justified the objections of the social party, which were confirmed by the subsequent acts of the company and which put and jeopardized the viability of the factories and the maintenance of jobs. The reduction to the minimum of the activity of furnaces and the destruction, from that purchase operation, of 30 direct jobs and of 80 in the possible annual and auxiliary employment, shows the industrial abandonment of the factories in Cee and Dumbria by the company Xeal. From the moment of the purchase, production did not go down unless it did; jobs were reduced both from subcontracts and from the company itself and no new contracts were filled for retirements or discounts. The situation in 2020 actually worsened, since workers were imposed an ERE from April to July, not accepted by the social side, so that only two ovens were left in operation, one per factory; ERE which, by the way, and as well as the companion of the PSOE, was put down by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. And in September the company unilaterally applied another ERE inherited from the Ferroatlantic Group confirmed by a judgment, it is true that in the first instance, but resorted by the social part before the High Court of Justice, which is still pending resolution. Interestingly, after the end of the ERE, the same furnaces continued to work as before the job regulation file, while the re-incorporated workers carried out basic plant cleaning and maintenance tasks, without the company being told nothing at that time about returning to normal plant activity. Which denotes the absolute disregard of management for regaining the productive capacity of these factories. And that disillusionment has its reason to be that current owners are the only ones who are interested in the benefits that the exploitation of hydroelectric power stations brings to them. We have to make it clear because that's what's underlying everything that's happened in the last few months. The objective that was pursued from the outset by this fund investor and the company in charge of the management was and is the segregation of the hydroelectric power plants of the factories, closing the factories and staying only with the profitable energy business. And so the buyers of this industrial-energy complex refused to withdraw the appeal against the resolution of Galician Waters, brought on their day by the previous owner with the aim of segregating the activity of railways of electrical production. The employees and the employees of Xeal, seeing this situation, started in October 2019 a series of mobilisations that required the company to present the preceptive plan of industrial viability; a plan that they understood vital for the continuation of the work and the maintenance of jobs, before the productive paron that was a reality. Parón has reason to be upon dependence on a single supplier and customer, which is no other than Ferroglobe, and therefore demanded to know the exact terms of the purchase agreement and the trade agreements, because it seems that the company that sold is the only one that can supply raw material to Xeal and, in addition, it is the only one who can buy what it produces -- it would be very bad!-- And they also required a schedule for the re-starting of furnaces, the maintenance of all jobs, the investments promised in factories and a respect to the essential clause for the linkage of the activity of production factories and the production of energy. A few months ago, the BNG Parliamentary Group presented an initiative requesting that workers be given the plan of viability to which the company was obliged, as well as the content of that purchase contract. The generalized feeling is that the company is laughing at the workers of the region and Galician Union itself, not respecting the essential linkage of railways and energy production, nor the judgments which have so repeatedly fixed. It is essential -- and in addition, it is your duty, because it is a matter of your competence -- that the Galician Union shows a clear position in the defence of activity and jobs and exaggerates the company's respect for binding clauses. This is fundamental. As for the PSOE initiative, I don't doubt its good intentions, but, given the latest events, we cannot but consider it a little naive and perhaps repetitive. A very similar initiative was taken to the Commission by this group and rejected by the PP Parliamentary Group. The initiatives, to be truly effective, must address the present, and this is marked by the last meeting, by the meeting held by the company committee with Mrs. Paula Uría, Director of Energy Planning and Natural Resources on May 28th. At that meeting he was informed to the social party that the Board did not have the purchase contract or the trade agreements between the seller and the buyer. And this, of course, shocks a little, because actually at the moment, when it was the sale, the Galician Board had to authorize that sale. So what do we have to collide with this? What is it, that the Galician Board authorized a purchase without knowing the terms of that contract, without worrying about which were the commercial relationships between buyer and seller that could compromise the future and maintenance of jobs in the Xeal factories? At that meeting too, by Mrs. Paula Uría, she was told that the Board had already validated -- without even talking to the committee -- the company's new plan of viability, but it couldn't make it easier for her. This is also, of course, shocking, because since the company committee was asking for this plan of viability so that Junta would require it from the company, and Junta would commit itself to, once the company transmitted it, it would put it in the knowledge of the workers. But the reaction was to what I just said, they simply indicated that it was already validated, but also that they could not access its contents. In such a way that the social part is being deprived of knowing fundamental issues for the future of the company. From the meeting, what's clearly collided is that the Government of Greece is back or profile it again -- as you prefer the employees of Xeal, aligning with the company's side. Given the serious situation and being a job maintenance priority for a highly punished region in recent years, it is essential that the House's groups adopt a clear and strong position of support for the employees and the employees of Xeal, of support for the recovery of industrial activity and also for the judicial actions initiated by the workers and workers of the company in the defence of their jobs. From there we present a substitution amendment, which, in addition to being current, collects the clear and unequivocal will of the company committee and of a whole territory that no longer believe in the good gestures for the Xeal gallery -- which has been very concerned about getting them out in the press in the last few months -- and that they don't understand the bleaching of the company that are performing some mayors and mayors of the Coast of Death in exchange for one of the needles. What is needed is a clear position in the defence of employment and industrial activity, a strong position of the various political forces and of the Greek Government itself; the strength of which is lacking -- and I say it in all respects -- the initiative of the PSOE Parliamentary Group, therefore our amendment. We hope that the PSOE Parliamentary Group will agree to our amendment, that what it is seeking is not just to guarantee a minimum of employment, but rather to fully reactivate the work of factories, to defend the excess of employment and that the Galician Union is clearly positioned on this. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u115	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Lorenzo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u116	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I wanted to begin my intervention today by recalling little 14-year-old Carlos, who lost his life last Tuesday on a tragic event on a school trip in the reservoir of the boil of Mazaricos Town Hall. Carlos lived in Carballo and went to primary sixth in which was also my school, the CEIP Home. From here I want to transfer my deepest condolences and that of my political group to your entire family, but I also want to show solidarity and to move all my support and encouragement to the entire school community in the center, especially to your teacher and also to the director of CEIP Fogar, who I find is going through very hard times. [[Applause]] By entering into the subject that we are debating and reading the exhibition part of his initiative, in which they refer to what was the mobilization of the workers and workers of the factory and the neighborhood and governments of the municipalities of the county which made it possible for the Board to reject the so-called request for segregation. Look, who prevented the company's intention to segregate both activities was the People's Party's Government in the Galician Union. You know that the resolution of the administrative authorisation of the operation of the 1994 hydroelectric activity is very clear. The concession entails, on the one hand, maintaining industrial activity; and on the other hand, that the activities of railways and the production of electricity are not segregated. The Galician Union has defended, defended and will defend the non-segregation of railway activities and the production of electricity, as well as industrial activity in Dumbria and Cee plants. And all this is done by applying legality and ensuring for the public interest of an administrative concession with full transparency for the workers, for the works council and also for the mayors and mayors of the county -- and all endorsed by a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia -- That's why this group, the majority group of the House, will not accept that it is said in this Parliament or anywhere else that the Galician Union does not defend the interests of the employees of Xeal. Ladies and gentlemen, defending workers is also a cost of competitive energy for electrointensive companies, and also for Xeal. Or aren't the plants of Cee and Dumbria affected by the price of electricity? You should stop manipulating and using the workers to do your politics, who sees more for the sake of the rule of Sanchez than for the real interests of Galicia and, in this case, for the interests of the Death Coast. [[Applause]] You opposition groups have been attacking those who since the first time have seen the interests of the workers of Ferroatlantics -- today Xeal-- The support of the People's Party and the Government of the Union is not left in words, such as those of the voices of the Socialist Party and the BNG. So it has been shown on repeated occasions before the staff and the works council at the meetings that over the last few years have held representatives of the Industry Council with the workers, as well as at the meeting held this February of the councillor with the mayors and mayors of the municipalities concerned. The Galician People's Party has been engaged to the workers of Xeal and to the workers of the entire electrointensive industry of Galicia and defending their interests. Because -- I repeat -- it was Galician Union in 2017, defending its interests, which prevented the segregation of Ferroatlantic activities. And the courts gave us reason. And do you know who gave us the reason, Mr. Seco and Mr. Pérez? Do you know who makes your demagogy policies clear? The citizenry of the Coast of Death with its votes, which showed a strong support less than a year ago to the useful policy of the People's Party and the President Feijóo in Galicia. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Ideologies do not guarantee jobs, which does guarantee jobs is the strength of the Galician Union to keep the two essential conditions imposed on that concession. In times of an unprecedented crisis, the railway industry is key to providing stable and quality jobs. They know it well in Alcoa, in Celsa Atlantic and Megasa, and also the more than 250 workers in Xeal. We will agree that economic reactivation must be based on a competitive industry that needs equally competitive energy costs and that energy policy has a direct impact on industrial activity in Galicia. And what is meridianly clear is that the Galician Union is doing its part in this matter. What about you? Because I say that you will also have some responsibility. What they're doing is they're asking the board to fix what you've been up to in these last two years of uncontrollableness and just saying that the board is getting profiled or that the board is looking somewhere else. Just like those who look the other way, it's you. Look, ladies and gentlemen, until 2019, the five Dumbria and Cee furnaces worked their full performance. At this point, three are working with a production capacity of 40%. Do you know what happened in 2019? For that year Mr. Sánchez's energy policy reduced the aid programs to 51.5 % on aid received in 2017. But in 2020 the aid is 91 % less than the aid received in 2017. Ferroatlantic -- today Xeal -- received, in 2017, 28 million euros in terms of uninterruptible auction. Do you know how much you felt in 2020? Recognised 2; 28 million against 2. And that's because this country has been more than a year without electrointensive status. And when he arrived, it was late, bad and without the slightest consensus, and in no case is going to solve the problem of the Greek intensive electro-intensive industry. And you shut up and do demagogy. Ladies and gentlemen, the disorganized energy policy of this government -- which has exclusive competence -- has increasingly serious consequences on the economy of families and on the loss of competitiveness of pemes, autonomous and, of course, industry. The obvious proof that something is going wrong is that government partners themselves are correcting each other, offering contradictory versions on the path to follow. The government has been promising for years to take measures to lower the price of light, but until now the electric bill continues to rise. The last example is the intensification of the service that is assuming the new tariff regime. Yesterday they announced the bomb and it dropped from 21% to 10 %. But look, fortunately, families know how to add and subtract, and if the bill goes up by 45% and goes down by 11%, the accounts go on without giving the families and the pemes. In the next bill of light the families and the business fabric will take more than one scare. It is incomprehensible that Spain has the price of Europe's most expensive light and the highest taxes among the major European countries -- and this will continue to be, despite the announced drop -- Just as it is incomprehensible that the Italian industrial fabric -- and, in particular, hyperelectrointensive tissue -- is increasingly competing under worse conditions, since the price of megawatt in Spain is twice as high as in France or Germany. And we can also make this comparison in CO2 compensation. In the 2019 exercise in Spain there were 61 million, compared to the 266 distributed by the French Government and the 546 German Government. The obvious lack of competitiveness makes it clear that Galicia is without the metallurgical industry. Alcoa aluminum and Xeal silicon are key materials in the industrial development of the future. While central government's energy policy tracks our industries, the Galician Union maintains its commitment to the electro-intensive industries and declares them essential and strategic. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, leave the demagogy aside and work for the Central Government to act decisively to reduce the cost of electricity for businesses and, by the way, for families as well. The decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia gives the Board the reason and ratifys the administrative process that has been carried out. What this judgment cannot do, Mr. Seco, is to add criteria or conditions other than those collected in the original concession. This resolution shows once again the commitment of this administration to compliance with legislation and therefore to preventing segregation of activities. The position of the German Government has not changed. The priority remains to ensure that the present and future of the installations in Cee and Dumbria pass through the maintenance of activity, which is the best way to guarantee jobs. As for the viability plan that was presented by the company, it is subject to commercial secrecy, and this premium on the Transparency Law, as established by the established jurisprudence. So you could only have access to that plan if you so authorize the company or a judge. This has already been transferred to the company committee at the last meetings with them and with the mayors of the county last month. I'm done, president. The Government of Unity will continue to act with maximum transparency from a permanent dialogue with both the employees of the General and the municipalities of the Coast of Death. I invite them to add to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u117	Thank you, Mr. Lorenzo Gómez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u118	Thank you, President. It's a pity to have to hear here about everything but the content of the initiative. He just failed to speak of the covenant of successions, pardons and horns and the tail of the Government of the State; but he did not speak at all of our proposition, absolutely nothing! [[Applause]] It's a company in which there is a question -- and it should even embarrass the People's Party -- which is that this company is not only penalizing the ferro-alignment part of electricity, it's making money with the electricity tariff as well. So I think you have to know about that compensation. Even when it goes up the electric fare, the company, of course, has greater benefits, gentlemen of the People's Party. But you want to ignore the reality of the situation, which is what the mayors of the county and the company committee are asking for. They keep listening deaf to this subject -- which, by the way, Mrs. Paula Uría recently recognized the mayor of Cee -- which is, precisely, setting those minimums, the minimum criteria of activity that must be demanded from a company to keep that industrial activity and that segregation does not happen, gentlemen of the People's Party. That's the misfortune, and you want to look elsewhere, talking about power and talking about other kinds of issues that don't come to the case right now, with an initiative that doesn't seek to blame anyone at all, but rather to seek and urge the Galician Council to set those minimum criteria. That's the key to all of this. Because in Cee and Dumbria, Mr. Lorenzo -- I don't know if you know -- 110 workers have been lost, and the activity is going down. Is that the minimal activity that the People's Party wants and which the Government of Galicia supports? Will you just let the company run three of the five furnaces and lower the number of workers? [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Novoa, when you want to come to debate, come and discuss it. But I'm talking to Mr. Lorenzo. Whenever you want, next time, I'm debating with you, but I'm talking to Mr. Lorenzo. [[Murmurs.]] That's the point, Mr. Lorenzo. No one on the Death Coast will understand that. You highlight the result of the People's Party, but they don't have a single mayor all over the Coast of Death. For something it will be, Mr. Lorenzo! They start to look at this and get on the side of the citizens and those who represent them on the Coast of Death, because they're asking precisely that the Council of Galicia be its collaborator and set those minimum criteria. [[Applause]] That's the key. I want to tell the BNG spokesman precisely this question. I understand what the committee proposes, we're not against it. You have taken an initiative and, if you bring it to debate, our vote will be in favour. But the key to all this is in this issue; this is the key to all this. The key is precisely to ensure what are the minimums of business activity, industrial activity, and the minimums of jobs this company has to have. That's the key to all of this, and the rest is smoke. There's the key to the whole thing. At the time when it is established what are the minimum criteria for industrial and staffing activity, the rest, of course, is less important. And I don't know what happened in the People's Party and in the Government because this was something that was previously recognized. I have here a press clipping that said that, in October last year, after a meeting of the technical secretary general, Pablo Casal, and Angel Bernardo Tahoces, they reported that "Junta if it required Xeal this plan of viability, but that the company is ignoring the request and that they only sent an investment plan, which they are analyzing." [[Mr. Seco García reads a document.]] I believe that then the Galician Union was online, and they had just been studying a plan of viability, which probably found nothing to do with the job and that the Union was requiring it. And I repeat again that Mrs. Uria even recognized the mayor of Cee's own mayor who was there the key to the matter. You just give up being able to demand from the company what is the minimum industrial activity needed to keep the activities from being segregated. There's the key; the key is, precisely, in a historical judgment -- that I'm going to recognize to you that it's thanks to the Council of Galicia, which was the one that put it in the courts-- If it's thanks to the Galician Union, use that instrument, Mr. Lorenzo. That's the instrument. Justice gave them reason to say that precisely it would not let it segregate because this continuity of both activities guarantees employment in a depressed area, as was the Costa da Morte. They use that sentence!, put it on paper, look for the legal formula, the instrument that the Galician Union has to do for it to be transposed into minimum conditions to ensure a minimum of jobs and industrial activity on a plant as important as the area of the Coast of Death -- as you well know -- as the one with Xeal in Dumbria and Cee. I repeat to you that it is a pity that since the People's Party they haven't even come to the bottom of the matter and that we don't know if the People's Party agrees to demand these issues from the Galician Council, beyond other types of issues such as "sold" to mayors because they sign agreements that are beneficial to their councils, as did the BNG spokesman with the mayors who signed, of course, improvements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u120	...in their infrastructures, which I think should be something to congratulate everyone at the same time as they keep, that they keep...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u122	...his pressure on a company that must guarantee employment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u123	Mr. Dry, I'm sorry, I haven't heard from you before, about the BNG amendment? I just didn't hear it before. Okay. [[Mr. Seco García informs Mr. President, Calvo Pouso, who does not accept the amendment.]] Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-legislative proposal by G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and 13 other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government to modify the processing and authorization of wind projects in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u124	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and also an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u125	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u126	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Galicia is a reference to the wind level. We currently have 180 operating parks, which add up to an installed power of nearly 4,000 megawatts, with a development forecast of 450 megawatts per year until 2030. This is how the Government planned it in its 2018-2020 Energy Guidelines. The Greek wind sector is strategic within our commitment to renewable energies, and the fair ecological transition is, in addition, an opportunity to create jobs and generate wealth. We are faced with a clean and sustainable energy with three decades of history and peaceful coexistence in our community that has evolved much technologically so that it can be more efficient and to seek a lower environmental impact, because the mills are getting bigger and bigger, but they also put fewer units and make much less noise. Wind energy prevents CO2 emissions, the main cause of climate change and the main threat to natural ecosystems and biodiversity. Each gigavatio/hour of wind energy prevents the emission of 310 tons of CO2. Thus, Galicia reduced its emissions by 23.8% compared to 1990 -- data from 2019, before the thermal closure -- and as opposed to the Spanish state as a whole, which increased by 8.5%. We should all be aware of the objective of climate neutrality to which we are committed as a country by the year 2050, and I understand that they will all share it, because I think some people still don't know the meaning of ecology. Galicia managed to be last year the second community in general renewable energy generation, and in particular wind energy. He managed to produce 75.6 of all his renewable energy production, bringing up wind energy between 30%, 35% and 40% to our energy mix. This will understand that it is the final balance, which does not mean that we still need other energy sources, because the problem of renewable energy is the lack of storage. All this added value implies in our community that the wind sector generates over 7,000 jobs between direct and indirect, contributing to our gross domestic product with 580 million euros. We have the wind farms, but we also have a network of auxiliary and qualified personnel around it that it is important to highlight and companies dedicated to the manufacture of components, electrical assemblies, consulting, engineering, construction or so qualified maintenance operations, which are key to the economic profitability of these wind machines. Examples of companies such as Vestas, GRI, Gestamp or Zeta Engineers, as well as other Italian capitals, such as the Ganomagoga Group, are an example of the employment provided by this energy technology. For all this, try to undervalue a key sector, as is wind, as is being done by the Galego Nationalist Block and the PSdEG, where Galicia has the main resource, which is the wind, from this group we believe it is a serious mistake and, above all, trying to frighten and contribute to crism, as they do with the population, it is still a major mistake, especially when after agreeing to close our thermals before time and to give The Bridges for closure -- as Mr. Caballero did in the past full, without even addressing the innovative solution of biofuel -- is the hill; and also what is opposed to renewable energy, yes, only in our community. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the socialists of Castela-La Mancha are very proud that Albacete is the first province of Spain in generation of wind energy. But here the Greek socialists are behind a banner asking for the paralysis of this sector, a very serious mistake. And we don't tell you, Mr. PSdeg, you tell your own minister of Ecological Transition. The reality is that the Galician Union must continue to offer its utmost collaboration to take advantage of the opportunities that arise in this field, as long as the projects presented comply with the guidelines set out in both environmental and sectoral or technical guidance, by, of course, exercising maximum transparency in citizenship and always ensuring compatibility with other economic sectors. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, has been planning for years, and this is one of the keys to our success. We have a sectoral wind plan that defines the development areas, the ADs, which is where the aerogerators can be placed. And with the Law of Administrative Simplification and Support for Economic Reactivation, passed a few months ago in this Parliament with the opposite vote of the PSdEG and BNG, it was expressly forbidden to install parks outside this area, except for projects which have a clear territorial impact by their economic and social entities and have a vertebrate function in the territory. Thanks to this instrument, 36 projects of nearly 2,700 megawatts of total power have already been reported negatively, a few hundred mills processing the central government in Galicia through 50 megawatts of power. And this is the first point of our initiative as to asking not to continue the processing and authorization of these projects, because they fail, ladies and gentlemen, the territorial management defined in our sectoral wind plan. And if they're out of the area, they can't go on, just like those who are framed on the Natura Network, where it's forbidden as well. After the unfavorable report of the Galician Union -- binding report -- we ask that it not continue its processing for failing to comply with the prevailing wind laws in Galicia. As we have already spoken here and on repeated occasions, it is important to remember that in Galicia, wind projects are not allowed to be installed in the spaces declared as a special network of protection of natural values to be part of the Natura Network, except for reconstitutions; a ban referred to in 2014 with the approval of the Natura 2000 Network's Master Plan, and it is expressly prohibited to install wind farms on the Natura Network. For this reason, the Galician Union has called for environmental information published by the Ministry of Ecological Transition in the field of environmental zoning for wind and photovoltaic energy to be clear and does not induce the error, because since the Ministry the promoters are informed that in the areas of maximum sensitivity in which the Natura Network is included, wind projects are not recommended, when they know it is not so. By law it is expressly forbidden to install wind farms in the Natura Network. And from there our request from point 2: that the information provided by the Ministry be clear and true, because this, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you know you can confuse companies, that you can request to install parks in prohibited areas in our community. You're talking here constantly about the avalanche of wind farms projects, making it clear that it only happens in Galicia, when you know it's not, it happens across Spain. In fact, you're talking about a bubble of renewables that seems to be that the Minister of Energy Transition himself denies. But I think it's obvious and obvious in all communities and, in fact, they all have the same complaints of accumulation of processing. Our opinion is fundamentally motivated by the amendment of Royal Decree No. 23/2020, of June 23, adopted by the State Government, of measures of axillization for economic reactivation, which approved its government in July. "Axillization measures," I understand that these words give you allergies, but if you have approved the Government of the State a real decree with axillization measures. These measures require very short, very adjusted processing periods, and if they don't, if companies don't do that, they're going to have important economic prejudices, losing their profits. All the central government wanted to do was eliminate speculation, because it was all the opposite and what caused it was an excessive demand for wind farms. So, I believe that with this explanation I have fulfilled the explanation of our proposal, which is to maintain management in the installation of wind farms, which paralyze projects outside the areas of the wind sector plan and on the Natura Network and which is correctly disseminated that is absolutely forbidden for many years in our community to install parks on the Natura Network. The Galician Union has reported negatively 36 state-wide projects, which affect, as I have told them on other occasions, one out of every five Greek municipalities, namely 68 municipalities; it has reported negatively because of failure to comply with the rules. The central government has to respect the German legislation and, as we see that it follows that process, that's why we have to demand it with much more insistently. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is shielded at 77.5% in the installation of wind farms, and so we want it to continue. Our model is the orderly installation of projects with all legal, technical and environmental guarantees, and, of course, how it is being done so far, making industrial use compatible with agricultural use, as it is always done. The installation of wind farms contributes to the rural environment with its taxes, both with the wind cannon, as we spoke yesterday, and with the taxes they pay in the territory. In 2019 they paid 130 million euros, which directly affect our territory. This should be seen as an opportunity, and we should not try to deceive and help and be clear, very clear to the population, so as not to meddle in it. That's what we believe from this group, and that's what the Greeks and the Greeks deserve. Nothing else on my part and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Arangéna Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Novoa, to begin with, I have to tell you that yesterday you lied and you lacked our parliamentary group for free when you literally said that we would stay "with our ass in the air" after voting against the download of the VV of electricity. Because we did not vote against it, but we abstained, and it was precisely the PP that did vote against it. So you lied and you missed us talking about it for free from the back of our anatomy. So I, in addition to asking you to remove your lie -- something I ask you, and, if it was a mistake, we also accept your apology -- you could tell you that the one that stayed with your ass yesterday in the air was you. But I won't, because I don't want to talk about ass in this Parliament, unless it's strictly necessary. What I do have to remind you is that, apart from that, what the Socialist Party did was to lower the VAT out of the light, which you didn't do when they ruled. You're talking about undervalue, about growing up in the wind sector. Give us that and tell us to put ourselves behind a sign asking for paralysis. We didn't ask for any sort of paralysis, we asked for a new wind model. Who is going to paralyze the wind sector, according to the Galician Wind Association, it is you who are incompetent; not paralyze it; what is going to be liquidate it, as they say, liquidate it! Because last year six wind farms were authorized, and those 450 megawattian forecasts are so far from reality that they are directly laughing, laughing! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And before you, in your reply, say, as usual, that we are -- as you have already said -- against the wind, or that we are -- as you said yesterday in respect of another political force -- "hypocrystics," I tell you, our position is perfectly clear: wind, yes, but not so. We've said it many times: windy yes, but not like that. Because we are in favour of wind, but we advocate for a new Greek wind model that overcomes the eaves of what we currently have, that minimizes the environmental and social effects and maximizes the benefits to the country. And so, I'm telling you, the central government won't authorize wind turbines in areas of the Natura Network; it doesn't have to ask, it's obvious. But we're going further, we're in favour of not being allowed either by the Union or by the Central Government, or even in areas of foreseeable enlargement of the Natura Network. The problem is that you don't extend Spain's smallest Natura Network; you refuse to expand Spain's smallest Natura Network, that's the problem. And we propose that rigour be maximized in environmental assessments, and we propose that the Galician Wind Plan be submitted to strategic environmental assessment. But you voted against these proposals in Commission 2a exactly three weeks ago. They don't want to expand Spain's smallest Natura Network, they don't want to maximize rigour in environmental assessments, and they don't want to submit the wind sector plan to strategic environmental assessment, but they do want to ask the Government of Spain not to do what it's legally obliged to process, which is a set-up, because it's a nonsense to ask the Government not to do what it's legally required to do. A nonsense!, regardless of the final result of that processing, of course, that will be negative, with all probability. Mrs. Novoa, you are a right-wing lady, a person of order, and you should respect our rule of law, our legal order. [[Laughter]] I don't see her demmeling you and asking a government to do things that you can't legally do, and yet you're doing exactly that. So I guess you've been wrong; you've been wrong, or you've been mistaken some advisor to your party. That's why I ask you to accept our amendment to replace your expression that "the Government does not proceed to the proceedings" by which "the Government does not proceed to authorize." We agree with that, that it doesn't proceed to authorize, because it won't authorize. And that's absurd about your proposal, because when my partner Martín Seco asks for a negative environmental assessment on a given project, you tell him he's asking them to predict, which he doesn't. But instead, you ask the Central Government directly not to process certain wind projects. As I see you have some confusion about the concept of prevarication -- which, by the way, so familiar with your party, on the other hand -- I have to tell you that prevarication is to adopt resolutions that are clearly illegal and to do so premeditally. [[Murmurs.]] And you ask the Government justly to prevaric, prevaric, because the central government is obliged to process projects of more than 50 megawatts, it has to process them; the different thing is that, as a result of this processing, it may not authorize them after processing them, which is what we are, of course, willing to claim, because it is a white thing and in a bottle. And I can understand that populist forces are asking for such a thing, but not that a party that governs Galicia is going crazy, unless you've definitely embraced Trumpism or that the Vox section is doing control over its party. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a new wind model, more democratic, more respectful of the environment, more transparent. That's why we propose that the owners have as a model an orientation-type contract to negotiate with the wind farms business; we propose a public base of wind prices and information on those prices reached in the negotiations between the affected parties; and we propose the establishment of an advisory office since the Greek administration. And since neighbouring and the community of mountains and municipalities do not receive the appropriate compensation for the installation of parks in their territory, we propose that the Union correct the insufficient return that has the Environmental Compensation Fund and the wind cannon in the municipalities affected by the facilities of these parks and municipalities do not receive the proper compensation for the installation of parks in their territory, and that the canon are not provided by the installed power, which is increasing, and we propose that the collection of that fund, set up in an opaque manner by its government, should correct the insufficient return that has the Environmental Compensation Fund and the wind cannon in the municipalities affected by the installations of these parks and the wind canon and that the canon is established by the installed power, which is increasing, and we propose that the collection of this fund, set up in an opaque manner by its government, should act directly on improvements in the municipalities and in the local communities affected by the installation of the parks, and the local communities affected by the installation of these parks, which are being installed, we propose, and we propose that the United States, we will continue to continue, and I will continue to keep and we are saying that the park the park the park, the sector, the sector, the sector, and the sector, and the sector, and the sector will be carried and that the sector will be loaded, and they will be loaded and they will be loaded and they will be loaded in the sector, and they will be loaded in the sector, and they will be carried and they will be loaded and they will be loaded as they will be carried and they will be the sector, the sector, the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be as they will be the sector will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will ensure as they will be the sector, and they will be carried according as they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be as they will ensure that they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be the sector, and they will be And I must also tell you that two weeks ago Mr. Feijóo blatantly lied for the last time in this House, frankly, when, in response to a question from Gonzalo Caballero, he said that 42% of our territory is protected. Protected from what? Because the reality is that we have less than 12% of our territory included in the Natura Network, which is the figure to protect our territory, unless Mr. Feijóo has some unknown figure in his head. And, for Tnato, we are with great difference the last community of Spain on the surface protected by the Natura Network, less than 12%, which is less than half the average area of the state, 27%, and the great distance it has, which is Madrid, with 40%. And not even the Natura Network is really protected, because the WWF Ecological Organization, which is the only one that did a study on the level of protection and effective real protection of the Natura Network in Spain, considers that we have the worst plan of Nature Network; not the second worst plan, but the worst plan of Nature Network. But at least the Natura Network is protected against the windmills. And, Mrs. Novoa, our Natura Network is protected against the wind farms because the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño has made that decision. Don't confuse yourself, as you usually do, saying that the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño authorized parks on the Natura Network, specifically six, as they always say, when I should know that they were parks that had already begun their processing in the Fraga governments and that, therefore, the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño could not stop them because it would also have been prevarication. Don't say it was you who banned the deployment of wind farms on the Natura Network because it was the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño who made that decision, specifically in Article 6.2 of Decree 242/2007, so the use of wind energy in Galicia was regulated, which said literally -- and I want to read it in case you have any doubts at some time-- "These natural spaces declared as a special protection zone of natural values to be part of the Natura 2000 Network --Decree 242/2007-- are excluded from the deployment of wind parks. And since we have the smallest Natura Network in Spain, we propose that we exclude the wind farms in the expansion areas of the Natura Network, which you have incomprehensiblely paralysed for ten years. We also propose that the Wind Plan be submitted to strategic environmental assessment, because it has never been submitted. And we propose that the distance from the population nucleus be increased. As you can see, we propose a lot of things. What do you propose? In point 1, the government shamelessly prevariates. In point 2, which improves Galicia's wind planning map, a map that is purely indicative. In point 3 they propose that the Government increase the deadlines for the resolution of the wind procedures, when, at the beginning of this year, you have adopted an administrative simplification law which rightly seeks to do the opposite; that is, it intends to reduce those deadlines. You make a law to reduce deadlines and four months later ask the Government to extend deadlines because you're overwhelmed by their incompetence, which would be a laugh if we weren't talking about something serious. PP's gentlemen, don't play scapism, don't throw any more balloons out. You can modify the wind model of Galicia according to your powers and within the state legislation, tomorrow even tomorrow! Do it and stop misinformationing, manipulating and practicing Trumpism in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u129	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I, as I already have a vital vocation for demeanor, will begin by saying directly that we are very happy and happy since the BNG that the People's Parliamentary Group brings this initiative, because it means something in its core, which is that they are aware of the serious problems that are happening with the development of this country's wind sector and because they are being permeated by the strong social pressure in this country on this issue. This is a recognition that there's an important part of reason and that you have to sit down and plan. [[Applause]] The negative part I can't parabend them is because it seems like you're trying to exonerate yourself, self-excuse yourself, to address that part exclusively to the central government. So I want to start inviting you to apply the story as well and so we can come here to this gallery and give them congratulations and thanks. I'm going to the point. This initiative, finally, apart from an enormous demonstration exercise that this popular pressure works and that there is margin to change the problems that this wind model has, is also a nice civic exercise by the People's Party's Parliamentary Group; it's a distraction maneuver. I have to tell them, Mrs. Novoa, that they don't fool anyone. The truth is, it was hard for you to find an escape route. He found it, they're artists for that, but they come here with this question because they're looking for that self-exculpation, putting on that government shirt that protects the Greek interests. But now they have found a way, which is to focus everything on state-wide projects, of which none is, fortunately, a reality and thus try to avoid giving a background debate on the global wind model that this country needs. And what they do is we're afraid that it's exclusively a propaganda strategy by focusing on those that have more than 50 megawatts, the same way they manipulate if masks do, if masks don't or the same way one day want traffic skills, another day, no, and they're going to try to give one of which and one of the sand. I already warn you that it is best not to follow that path because it will not work for them, because the social and political pressure on the wind model of the People's Party in the Union will follow and they will have to correct, and the sooner they do it, the better it will be for this country. In any case, it's a recognition that you're worried about, because you know that your own social base or your own municipalities are also having a lot of problems with this procedure. That's negative right now, but in the long run, if you give in, it'll be good for this country. Going to the question of initiative, what we're concerned about is that they come here as if the only problem was the central government, and it's in trouble, because you're now asking the central government to do everything you're not doing; that is, there's planning and compliance with the sectoral plan, that you've blown the air in the change that -- yes, Mrs. Novoa -- they approved in this Parliament a few months ago. And I'll explain why. What they did -- because we talked about prevarication here -- was to legalize prevarication, because you decided that the board of directors, with your finger, can decide where the sectoral wind plan jumps and where it doesn't. So what they're worried about is that the central government can do the same. And what we're saying is that the central government won't do it or the Galician board. We have a normative framework, a map and a management of wind deployment with new areas of exclusion to limit excluding the Nature Network, also excluding the expansion of the Nature Network and other strategic natural resources, and that everyone is fulfilling that planning. So it seems great to us that if you tell the state you can't do it, but we'd like you to be consistent, and our amendment goes in the same direction. Because, in addition, you've done a lot more with that law of administrative simplification, like, for example, that you missed in your speech to make your classic mention of public service. Those who do not respect public service are you, who advance in that privatization of environmental management, in that privatization of reports, who also advances that law of administrative simplification, which is a Trojan horse. And not happy with that, of course, you are in favour of wind deployment in areas that had to be within the expansion of the Natura Network, as in Sweden and in so many other cases that we have brought to this Parliament. So you're not to pretend to be defenders of the fight against climate change. And I'm not going to quote Rajoy's cousin, but they're coming to teach echoes, because, at the end of the day... they're free from the CO2 discharge in this country, obviously not due to the energy guidelines of the three-carriage People's Party Government or to the administration of the People's Party Government, Mrs. Novoa, but it's due to the fact that before we finally shut down, for example, Meirama there was a huge production stop, and at the Bridges too, and you know it perfectly because we were in this Parliament talking about the concern of the workers of this bridge center and so on. So, finally, really, it's missing the truth once again. In any case, we insist, renewable energies are not in themselves harmless and, therefore, we have to go to a management and planning. So we have to cut down on these problems. If you wanted to address these problems, you'd vote for the BNG amendment, which bets you're doing a new planning and sorting, or you'd have supported some of the ones you've been presenting in recent months. But it gives us the impression that they're trying to make a distraction maneuver. And they worry about us because this about wanting to do a distracting maneuver seems to be also a little extensible to the Socialist Party, because, of course, there are some things in this forum that appear to us to be great about the role, but of course, to assume that, as the Central Government manages very well, none of these parks automatically will translate into reality, we feel very proud of what it will be like. What we propose is that there is also a management in that sense, and we start with evidence: parks of more than 50 megawatts that are managed entirely within the territory of Galicia will also have to be of Greek management. It's something that has all the logic, because, in addition to developing electricity law, technology was not sufficiently developed, so that there were parks of such size within a single autonomous community. We now defend that change because we ultimately need sovereignty and political capacity. Mrs. Novoa comes here cheerfully saying that they report negatively and that she is binding. Look, you know there's some project -- like Rebordechao, which knows well because we're from the same territory -- that's at a very initiative stage where the State Administration simply consults entities, municipalities, etc. interested in making the preceding phase of environmental processing. So right now, that the Union says "I don't like it" is useless for lack of political sovereignty. So don't go to technical issues to confuse people because you know there's a lot left to do. In any case, if we can stop that aberration, because they will also have our congratulations, if you stand aside from that demand and not from the front. But, for now, the question is so. So, today what we also ask, through our amendments, are very simple issues: planning and paralyzing those parks that collide with the expansion area of the Natura Network and the areas of the Natura Network. You stayed in the ink for the areas that were planned for enlargement because then they would have to do the same with their parks, but then they wouldn't confuse and bet on that question. And we also ask that there be Greek management. We really think we should take this matter with a little seriousness. In any case, it's good for you to see that there's a problem and that you're willing to give in, but broaden your focus. I also want to take advantage of it to focus on the issue of the Natura Network. Well, I'm glad that today, in plenary today, the Socialist Party again claims the work done in the Bipartite in the wind sector, because, after yesterday's interventions, I was a bit confused. In any case, that has to be the road, but it has to be the road not only on the issue of environmental protection, where -- I insist -- in addition to the Natura Network -- as it was done on its day -- we have to expand the focus, because in recent years the Greek Government has put the pending enlargement areas into the drawer. [[Applause]] We must go further, we must also make a change of economic model and there are, therefore, issues that come out here, such as industrial return, such as standard contracts, etc., in which we must apply the same demand that is being asked of you -- in the case of yesterday, in the debate we had -- to the Central Government too. I hope that there too the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia is in keeping with the circumstances and that it also demands that these issues be addressed in the State parks, while they are not yet in the process of Greek, because the fact is that today that reality is not so. So these are issues that, through an amendment that is positive and rational, we formulate from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. And what we're going to see in today's vote is whether the Government of Greece is interested in having a consensus for this country, for its purpose, to be ordered, for the protection of these areas by which Mrs. Novoa expressed so much concern, or whether she's only interested in using this question as a wild weapon, to give the impression that the Central Government is very badly, but they are very well, that they are therefore working on the issue of the wind sector and putting on that green shirt to defend Galicia's interests. I invite the People's Party to try to seek a consensus and that there may be a unanimous position on this issue because, frankly, we think it would be important for this country and for our future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u132	Thank you, President. Look, ladies, this is the map you don't want to see. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a map of Galicia.]] They are given the speech of Predator One. This is the depredation Mr. Sánchez wants with 36 projects; yes, gentlemen, 2,700 megawatts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u133	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u134	...hundred mills in forbidden areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u135	Mr. Orange, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u136	...out of the wind sector plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u137	Mr. Orange, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u138	...in the Nature Network. This is the picture you don't like to see, Mr. Orange.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u139	Excuse me a moment. Watch your vocabulary!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u140	This one. Could not [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows the map again.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u141	Watch your vocabulary. No one here says "screaming" from the rostrum, and my duty is to protect who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u142	Don't worry, president. [[Murmurs.]] And look, Mr. Aranguena, this is another picture I'm going to show you. See? This is the vote in the past full of our initiative. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a document.]] Do you know what our initiative said? Remove electricity tax from invoices and harmonise VAT with the rest of European countries. This they voted no! And you know what your partner did, who's behind it? To say that our initiatives were opportunistic, both that of the BNG and that of the PP. They abstained from it, but they voted that not at the initiative of lowering the VAT and lowering the electricity bill from all Spaniards. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, they voted no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, Mr. Seco, they voted no. [[Mr. Seco García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And I do speak with rigour; you do not speak with rigour. [[Applause]] Mr. Arunguena, look, I'm getting cognitive dissonance, because you don't know what your right hand says and what your left hand says, because, on the one hand, we're predators and we're going to rock Galicia, and now they're saying that in 2020 only six wind farms have been installed. But what is the truth here, Mr. Aranguena? A little rigor! Look, if these projects were presented at the board, they wouldn't be allowed to process because they don't meet the first rule, which is that they're inside the wind development areas, within the wind sector plan. They wouldn't admit the procedure! That's the reality. We do not ask for anything illegal with this initiative, because the Board's report, which has already been produced, Mrs Presas, is negative, because they are in the wrong areas. That's the reality. They ask for the expansion of Nature Network and they don't even respect the Nature Network we have! But where are we? Look, Mr. Arangüena, the Ministry's information says it's recommended not to install parks, when it's forbidden. And you know what's the difference between this government now, which has taken since 2009, and its Bipartite government? That you installed six parks on Natura Network. And who? Ui, oligopolie companies... I'm not naming who, ladies. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs. Presas says here that we've been ruling for twelve years and that we haven't considered the Greek fare. Look, you've been there for 18 years... Mrs. Ponton has been in this Parliament for 18 years, and they've ruled four, and they haven't been able to present a single role that has an argument to define the Greek tariff, not one! [[Murmurs.]] But the most surprising thing is that they want a Welsh tariff without thermal energy, because the thermals close them, even if they have a minimum option, with biofuels; they want a Greek tariff without wind energy, because it's also forbidden; and they want a Greek tariff also without hydraulics. So, what energy do you want the Greek fare? Be consistent please, gentlemen! [[Applause]] Look, the reality is, of course we're not the same, how are we going to be the same? Because this government -- what it told them -- banned the installation of parks on Nature Network, and you authorized six parks on Natura Network. And it was this government that put the wind cannon on. Hey, what's that about "electric friends"? Let's put a charge on the electricians, who pay for installing the mills, and who are the electric friends? You, in your government, do you know how much? [[Murmurs.]] Zero euro to the territories. I'm looking for euros! [[Applause]] So, "Friends of the electrics," let him see. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Presas, if you oppose this initiative, what you're going to do is hold the sign, but you're going to keep Mr. Sánchez behind you, because that's what you do in Madrid and in all the Greek municipalities where you rule. That's the reality. They're holding the Social Government, a progressive government that charges us 45% more to all Spaniards, Your Honor, and you hold it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, of course we're not like you. And what we are asking for with this initiative is, point one, to comply with the law. Vigorous wind law says that parks cannot be installed outside the sector area, defined in the sectoral wind plan, and that no parks can be installed on the Natura Network, when the Ministry's web site is recommended not to be installed, but does not say they forbid it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u143	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u144	What we're asking is that the deadlines that will affect the processing of these projects be extended. And you, Mrs. Presas, know that. You have tabled here initiatives to expand, never to reduce, and now you will vote against this initiative, Your Honor, for you see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u145	About the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u146	Of course we're not going to accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u148	What I'd like is for them to stand for once on the side of the Greeks and not on Mr. Sánchez' side, as they always do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u150	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. After the debate on the non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u152	We started by voting for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Council on the establishment of a women's and health unit dependent on the Health Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u153	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Da María González Albert. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta speaks words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Yeah? Do you accept the point vote? [[Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta speaks words that are not perceived.]] But first, I tell you that you accepted a self-amendment of her and did not accept her amendment. So, which one do you want to separate? Which points do you want to separate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u154	points 1 and 2, together; and, on the other hand, point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u155	Thank you. We vote, then, first of all, the points... Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But he agreed, he said yes... he had already said yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've seen... I'm going fast on these questions! [[Mrs. González Albert nodded.]] It's just that from here it looks better, it's not for anything else. [[Laughter]] So let's vote points 1 and 2. We vote. Voting of points 1 and 2 of the compromised text of the G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María González Albert, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia in connection with the recruitment of air services for the defence of forest fires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Points 1 and 2 of this text are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u156	We now vote point 3. We vote. Voting of point 3 of the compromised text of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María González Albert, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the recruitment of air services for the defence of forest fires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 of this text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u157	We now vote on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Galician and People's Nationalist Block are not accepted. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the maintenance by the Board of Galicia, for the course 2021/2022, of the same number of teachers as in the current course, regardless of the increase that may result from the extension of educational supply. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u158	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of G.P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Guadalupe Murillo Solís and five other Members, on the defence by the Galician Board of Financial Self-Government and the regulatory capacity in tax matters and the demand to the Government of Spain to reverse the amendment to Article 36 of the Law on Income of Physical Persons, which provides for the draft law on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u159	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Martín Seco García and Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the maintenance of employment in the factories Xallas Electricity and alloys S.A. of Cee and Dumbria. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 14; votes against, 39; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u160	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u161	I wanted to ask for the separate vote in point 3 is that Mrs. Novoa did not want to incorporate the extension of deadlines also to those affected and users, and leave it alone in the promoters. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u162	Well, that's what I'm going to read from now on. I'll announce it. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I mean, I haven't announced it yet, but I've already announced it and then... so think about it... you know, it's got something ahead of it. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] In particular, we shall now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Marta Nóvoa. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block are not accepted. Ask for a separate vote, but it is not accepted. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias denies with her head.]] You don't accept it. We therefore vote as it goes. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Iglesias, on the demand of the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain to modify the processing and authorization of wind projects in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u163	The votes are over here. We continue with the agenda, in this case interpelerations. Question by Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonzo and two other Members, by Mr P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the loss of industrial and employment activity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u164	Mr. Fernández Alfonzo has the floor to make an inquiry. [[Murmurs.]] Let's continue with the full.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u165	Whenever you like, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, June 23rd, we're about a week away from the job warranty period that the staff of the endesa thermal auxiliaries in the Bridges. And in the same way, we're also a week away from transfers to other centres outside of Galicia from Endesa's own staff. In other words, within a week, several hundred people from the village and surrounding the Bridge and their families are exposed to the incidences of a crisis that leaves many things undiscovered: misleading propaganda, lies, unrestrained, lack of political capacity, but above all, it leaves people, families, just as they are eighteen months since Endesa reported the closure of the thermal power plant and there is no shadow of a solution to the village of the Bridges. Even worse, what we've all found during these eighteen months is that the People's Party and the PSOE, that the German Government and the Spanish Government -- end up through -- are unable to agree even in crisis situations and extreme need like this. Eighteen months of riots, contradictions, inoperability, lies and head-to-head with each other without giving solutions. And now what? How can it be that in a situation like this, at the repeated request of meetings by the representation of the staff concerned, the only communication with the Government of the State is through the provincial sub-delegated government and that the conclusion of the meeting is: "Communication of the needs of The Bridges to strengthen commitment to employment"? It's a textual quote from the press release. "To communicate the needs of As Pontes to strengthen commitment to employment", as if in ministries they were not aware of the situation. It's incredible, but that's what we got! Now that things get ugly, neither the ministers nor the president Fexóo either, they want to face, eighteen months after the closing was announced, and knowing that the closure is a fact from the minute zero, because the Electric Network as system operator has already advanced its congratulations for closing the power plant. There will be many things to clarify about how and when, but the central close is a fact. I know it in the ministry, I know it, I know it, Greenalia knows it, Iberdrola knows it, EDP knows it, and anyone who wasn't born yesterday, and eighteen months later you're still turning your eyes on it, no solutions. And eighteen months later, the State Government starts proceedings for the elaboration of the fair transition agreement; some procedures that may take another year and that the Ministry itself says are basic to put in place the zone reactivation projects; eighteen months waiting for basic procedures to commence. And from the other great base for the economic reactivation of the bridges, from the pox to help us to access the electrical grid that is released with the closure of the power station, you don't even know. The pox draft for Andorra, which goes far ahead of the Bridges, has now been published. What about Junta? It must not seem enough to Junta to see the mess that's going on with the closure of the bridge's thermal, which was to put a hand. First, you refuse to sign the collaboration protocol to push the transition agreement. It's the only autonomous community that hasn't signed it. The other autonomous communities affected by the closures of thermal power stations in their territories have already signed, all: Andalusia, Castile-Leon, and also those governed by the People's Party included. Whatever moves the Fascist Government that no one knows or understands, or the business interests that are promoting, logically, is already the cause of all kinds of speculation. That's right, the crane, best of all, Oscar went to the biofuel film. What an interpretation, Mr. Vice-President! How wonderful! The script was stolen, that's right, but it doesn't take any credit for it. How he managed to keep the mystery to the end! We've spent almost a year in this Parliament asking you to explain and quantify the biofuel project: how many groups, how many hours of work, what volume of employment would occupy, what price would enter the system... and you, nothing, quiet, without revealing the mystery. Where's the BNG, the BNG up, the BNG down, and the BNG down? And so almost a year. And finally, the other day, already in discount time, less than 24 hours before a meeting of the Bridge Bureau, you send the proposal of biofuels; a proposal that, apart from other details, consists of the following. On the other hand tell Endesa: the plant will do you and you will operate. And on the other hand, tell the Ministry, and you're going to pay a premium of 30 euros/megavatio. Impressive! A scene worthy of a Clint Eastwood film. First, on one side, then on the other, but Endesa said no, and the Ministry also said no, no more premiums. I admit, Mr. Vice-President, that the scene well deserved another end. And, after all, in the village of the Bridges you are called irresponsible. He'll wonder why. Then I'll tell you, because the Bridges aren't for movies. It's been 18 months with the sword of Damocles on top of their heads and they're not for movies. They want solutions, they want to see governments rule, they want seriousness and rigour, they want commitment and collaboration. Seriousness, rigour and commitment that, when it comes to government -- because you are Government -- is equivalent to the impulse of actions and, above all, budgetary appropriations. Are you betting Galician Junta on a biofuel plant for The Bridges? They bet, they bet. How much money are you going to put together? Will Join us constitute a society to do for itself what Endesa is not willing to do? How will that biofuel plant reconcile with the fact that the Junta's own waste management plans provide for energy recovery only 3% of sludge and 15% of agricultural waste? If it were a serious and viable proposal, these would be the extremes the Board has to clarify and implement: if it is willing to set up a society to promote and operate the plant, if it is going to modify the Board's plan for waste management and at which price it will enter the production of that plant into the electrical system. That is the key to walnuts because, indeed, Mr Vice-President, you know perfectly well that there are no premiums anymore. The plant would have to compete in the market or, at best, go to a specific post for that technology, where, in any case, it will have to compete with other plants. But there are no more premiums, and less for a project like what you said to defend, of more than 50 megawatts. The Galician Board has been portrayed as presenting the project, after a year without realising it, just the day before the meeting and, in addition, without acquiring any commitment. It is the perfect picture of your modus operandi during these eighteen months: to do what it does and to send others to do; to permanently place the ball on the roof of others and not assume that you are government, that you have the responsibility to govern, to seek real solutions. You have that responsibility and you are not exercising it. And in your budgets there is no weight for the reindustrialization of the village of Pontes. That's what the Union's commitment to the Bridges is worth: nothing in its budgets. Negatively sign the Collaboration Protocol for the Transition Agreement, and lies and smoke in the management of the crisis and its proposals. [[Applause]] You got what seemed impossible: to do as bad as the State Government, and see how easy it was to do better! But you'll know why they decided to take things away even more than they were. As I told you, speculation is on the agenda. No one misses the fact that this war that is unleashing Together and Government of the State has its business background and candidacy to the Next Generation funds. The ties of the People's Party with Greenalia and the projects and disputes that this company has with the Government of the State must certainly have a role in this governance. And, as always, there will be people with names and surnames, with families, who will pay the consequences of the irresponsibility of the State Government and the Fascian Government. And you, Mr. Conde, are Vice-President of the Government of Greece, Economics, Enterprise and Innovation, and you are responsible for governing and providing solutions. If you want to play Clint Eastwood, please do it out of hours or load your guns with something more than smoke. [[Applause]] Leave the movies and make politics, put solutions on the table with budget allocations. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u168	Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, political opportunism has a very short walk, and surely the BNG would have to think about it before supporting those who have asked for and decided to close the bridge power station early in an unfair and disorderly energy transition process; a decision that you have adopted by the Government that you support. We don't have to see the bill of light -- and we advance it -- Historical prices close to 95 euros/megavatio in the electric market are clear evidence of an improvised energy policy, with taxes and costs regulated around 57% that respond to government policy decisions that you support; an erroneous perception of eco-exism by BNG, which is not measuring the consequences of promoting changes without previously having alternatives to solutions for businesses, for workers and for citizenship. And now you come here to exercise political hypocrisy. It's a wrong perception of that eco-xism that the BNG is sharing day by day, banners the sign. You're behind the poster "Galicia, a coal-free future," which unfolded the friendly platforms and their government partners. And you're responsible for the situation that the people of the Bridges are living around. BNG is directly responsible for the situation that is currently going through the bridge workers. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has clearly and concretely transferred its bet to the industry. We are aware that industry has impacts, but industry is sustainable, and industry is synonymous with progress, wealth and well-being, and you don't share that. You want to play on a board where, along with the Socialist Party, you want to decide which companies can continue their activity and which companies have to close. And they do it digitally. Identifying companies that are not interested in them are taking a proactive attitude to close them. And that's what you're doing with the Bridges. The decision to close the bridge station knows that it was the Government that you are supporting and that you are allowing. And now the BNG comes here to try to transfer and export his powers and his responsibilities, Mr. Fernández; his responsibility. It will weigh on the conscience of the Nationalist Block Galego the lack of support for the workers of the Bridges. [[Applause]] The BNG from the very first moment has supported the closure decided by the Government of Spain, and now you intend to transfer to the Galician Union that we have to be the ones who have to move an industrial alternative. That's top-level political hypocrisy, Mr. Fernández. Political hypocrisy! BNG never supported Galician Union at any time! You voted against this Galician Union agenda, which included the demand for effective measures to ensure a fair ecological transition that prevented the accelerated closure of the bridge thermal power plant and the search for an industrial alternative to the closure of Meirama. You voted against, Mr. Fernández. They voted against it! They say something outside and here they say the opposite. Unfortunately, it seems that the Government is now thinking of paying attention to them. Indeed, because the minister was the one who transferred us, both to the Council of the Bridges and to the Council of Galicia and Endesa, working for an alternative to the central Bridges. It wasn't Galician Junta, Mr. Fernández, it was the Ministry of Ecological Transition, who knew perfectly well that the path of biofuels would lead us to where we are right now. The Ministry knew perfectly well, he knew perfectly Endesa, and we, together with the bridge council, worked to identify that situation. And I knew the Transitional Ministry was going to need a pay mechanism. But who do you and the Government want to cheat on? Who do you want to fool? We all knew that a pay mechanism would be needed. Where's the fair transition? Where are the funds that the Ministry wants to move to the right transition? And where is the Galego Nationalist Block supporting workers and an industrial alternative, which is the only one that can guarantee the continuity of the work of the auxiliary industry and the carriers themselves? Political hypocrisy, Mr. Fernández! The project that defends Galician Union to convert the thermal power plant of the Bridges was nothing more than a response from Galician Union to the mandate of the Government of Spain. And there we were working, along with IDAE, precisely to find that technical, environmental and economic viability. In fact, the project meant an investment of EUR 30 million, with a deadline that could start in early 2022, as a result of the work of the Galician Union, the Transitional Ministry, the Bridge Council and the workers of the plant itself. We've all been working, except for the Galego Nationalist Block, which was always against. Always on the contrary! [[Applause]] Mr. Fernández, the biofuel project knows it's a 100 percent renewable industrial alternative, 100 percent renewable! He knows, therefore, that he only needs the government to comply with the commitment he has made at the time of giving this plant viability, and therefore the responsibility to look for those mechanisms linked to the fair transition zone. But how do you intend to transfer responsibility to Galicia's board, and above all to the budgets of Galicia's board, a solution to the Bridges? But what kind of political hypocrisy is that? But who decides to close The Bridges without giving an alternative? But who has the European funds to be able to give that alternative to the Bridges? But who do they want to fool? Either they sit with the Greeks or they stand against the Greeks, and unfortunately, the Nationalist Galego Block is against the workers of the Bridges. [[Applause]] Mr. Fernández, the workers of the Bridges need realities and facts. The Galego Nationalist Block, unfortunately, follows in its permanent boycott to the sector and follows behind that banner echoes where it says it defends renewables and turns out that it simply wants to block any alternative renewables and wants to block any alternative, in this case, that can give continuity to the bridge plant, even though that continuity and that project can be viable. They know that we are defending a project that is perfectly compatible, that is compatible in the framework of support for current renewable energies. So we're going to remain committed to the bridge workers and we're going to remain committed to working on a project that gives an answer; and there you and the Galician Nationalist Block where you want to be! We're going to continue to defend a fair transition, which means disconnecting when you have the alternative. What you're defending is an unfair transition. They know the consciousness that they were disconnecting and that they had no alternative, and that's a responsibility; and it will weigh -- as I told you -- about their consciousness and the consciousness of their political party the future of the workers of the Bridges. Mr Fernández, the future of the Bridge will only be possible if the Government guarantees the continuity of the power plant through the use of fuels. That means that the Government of Pedro Sánchez, which you support, will have to decide whether to comply with its initial commitment and tackle the uncertainties of workers and transporters. If, of course, the alternative is to close The Bridges, which Mr. Sánchez comes here, to Galicia, explains it, accompanied by the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialist Party, because we are not going to participate in that decision. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u169	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On the replica round, Mr. Fernandez Alfonzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Conde, I would remind you in my first speech that you are an adviser to Economics, Enterprise and Innovation. And we once again see that the great innovation of this People's Party government would be that it would give explanations, that it had answered the questions that we put to it at parliamentary headquarters and that it would also regularly address the society of the Pontes village in each mobilization. Innovation would have met its democratic accountability obligation, but it was very much to wait. Or, Vice President, he may not explain his actions because he has nothing to explain. It will be, Mr Vice-President, that reality finally appears transparent. [[Applause]] You created the frame -- as our spokesperson for President Fexóo said this morning -- so energy companies today are above good and evil, above governments and people; the framework for what today, the difference in other processes in the village of Pontes, seems like a taboo that Endesa and Junta have to compromise economically with the reactivation of the town. The fact, Mr. Vice President, is that Junta has been doing nothing for eight months. You don't even have a diagnosis of the impact of the closure, you don't have a project for the economic reactivation of the Bridges, you don't have anything on the budgets for the energy transition; you're not ashamed. The closure of the thermal can cost between 1,000 and 1,400 jobs; the first, if nothing remedies it, several hundred redundancies and transfers will be within a week. One week, Mr. Conde! One week! What are you going to do? What will Galician Union do? What do you have to tell the workers and workers of Endesa and assistants, who will be transferred to the other end of the peninsula, to the Canary Islands, or who will be fired and fired? If you do not feel, if you honestly consider that you have no responsibility for what is happening in the Bridges; if you consider that technological changes, that changes in energy paradigm and that the consequences that this will cause in the employment and economy of Galicia, our country, have nothing to do with you; if you consider that none of this has to do with you, that none of this deserves the slightest forecast or budget allocation, then Mr. Vice President, I am corrected: to make films and leave politics. [[Applause]] Look at the anagrams of this communication: Commissions and UGT, its head unions, the IGC -- the cursed union--, the Council of Bridges... All municipal groups, transporters and entrepreneurs and the entire society of Bridges require solutions. It's good enough to strain the rope or do what you're doing to Junta, if you're doing something. Pay attention to the demands of the village of the Bridges and exercise their responsibilities, which are very and very important. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u172	Mr. Fernández, after your intervention, I will give you the benefit of the doubt. Indeed, it is clear that his lack of knowledge of energy policy certainly leads him to draw wrong conclusions. Unfortunately, it's the same situation your political party has. Because trying to move that the situation of the workers of the Bridges responds to the energy framework driven by the People's Party is simply an exercise of ignorance of the energy policy of our country and of who is making the decisions. Mr Fernández, the Government of the Socialist Party, which you support, has made a political decision: to close the thermal power stations in Spain, contrary to the criteria of the other European countries. Moreover, Germany opened a central area last summer. It was an intentional political decision. So, come here to talk about the energy frame promoted by the People's Party... but what is this theater, Mr. Fernández? [[Murmurs.]] We're talking about people and workers. You can't look into the eyes of the bridge workers because you're behind the Socialist Party's decision to close the bridge power station. That's what really happens. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Come here to say that Endesa and Junta have to put the money for an industrial alternative of the Bridges! But what is this? But who makes the decision to close the power station? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Who has the European funds and who is raising 100 % of the European funds to make such decisions? But who do they want to fool? I really don't know. I'm telling you, I'm giving you the benefit of the doubt of not having the most remote idea of what energy policy is and, therefore, of its operation, but, unfortunately, the reality is that the Government of Pedro Sánchez makes the decision to close the bridge center with the support of the Nationalist Galego Block. That is the reality that, unfortunately, we have to manage. [[Murmurs.]] The Galician Union has presented an alternative; this is how there is a technically viable, environmentally viable and economically viable alternative. And everyone knew, all of you -- and us -- and we moved it like this, that a pay mechanism would be needed, of course. And the government, after a year and a half, says no, that competitive competition. Hey, why didn't you say that in the first minute, because we could probably save this situation. Who has the ability to call auctions that can give an alternative to that biofuel project? The Government of Spain. Mr. Fernández, either they're with Galicia or they're against Galicia; unfortunately, you're just in favor of a part of Galicia, of which they're interested. There are workers who are interested and workers who are not interested. [[Murmurs.]] The bridge workers? They're not interested. The Ence workers? They're not interested. The Navantia workers and the Ferrol auxiliary industry? They're not interested. And yet there are others who do, they seem to be interested, because they are probably the voters of the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Laughter]] But this government won't differentiate between workers, as you do. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case, Mr. Fernández, I fully understand the bad conscience of the Nationalist Block of Wales for having been an active valet of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, who is trying to close the central bridge. We'll keep trying that doesn't happen that way. [[Applause]] And since you stand today as spokesperson for Endesa, we don't know very well why, I hope you can change your position and support the Galician Union so that, precisely, both the workers and the auxiliary industry and the carriers can have a solution. They change and return to the general interests of Galicia, return to the interests of the workers, return to the interests of the Pontes workers and stop doing political hypocrisy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u173	Thank you very much, Vice President. We suspended the session until 6:00.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u174	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session and move on to point 7 of questions to the Government. The first one, question 17101 -- a 7.1, on the agenda -- you know that it was removed by your authors through document 17364. So we move on to the second question. Question by Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira the heritage of humanity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u175	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u176	Good afternoon, Counselor. We understand that the People's Party has withdrawn its urgent question about this very issue all the time -- in our view -- the shameful role played by the German Government. We are not going to enter this debate, in the details of the process of the candidacy of the Holy Ribeira the heritage of humanity; a process that, as you know, has been underway for many years. Just to point out that this nearly culmination of the process took place in March last year when it was known that it would finally be one of the 24 world proposals selected by UNESCO to submit to its study and evaluation. But, of course, a year later, just a week ago, the decision of the "strategic approach" was taken -- you would like to comment -- of the last step to submit this candidacy, after knowing the strong report prepared by ICOMOS in which they recommend not to go ahead with the file. And they recommend not to go ahead with the file because, in view of the documentation submitted, the conditions for such recognition are not given. UNESCO's advisory body questions the main lines of argument raised by the Galician Council for this recognition. The Galician Union -- and we know this from the report by ICOMOS, because we couldn't know about the project that the Government presented, of which we don't know anything -- presented its candidacy based on the religious character of the lands of the Sacred River and its millennial spirituality and on the value of traditional agriculture, which is adapted -- they say -- perfectly to the landscape. But, on the contrary, ICOMOS argues that the spiritual character and evangelization of the traditional millennium is not enough reason, because that spirituality, that sacred character of the territory, derived from the concentration of monastic monasteries and communities, is also given in many places in Europe, in addition to other gratified issues, of which we are not going to go into detail today. So, in the light of this report from the UNESCO advisory body, since the Council of Galicia has justified, in textual words, yours, Counselor, that strategic decision "to have more time, to take momentum and move even more firmly towards its definitive self, in order to continue to make the Sacred Ribeira a more lively, more careful and more recognized territory all over the world." More time and an even firmer step...? Of course, as if 25 years weren't enough time for that time and that step even firmer. Finally, and the lack of time to debate, to our group, to the Socialists, concerns the work that has been carried out in this candidacy by the Galician Union, which leads us to wonder whether the Government of Greece should reformulate its project, as well as the future of other similar candidatures of our cultural and natural heritage, which also opts for international recognition of the highest level. That's why we want to ask you today, Counsellor, what lessons does the Government of Greece have to learn from the failure of the candidacy of the Holy Ribeira the heritage of humanity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam, for several years now -- you know perfectly well -- we are engaged in an exciting process, also very complex, technically, which is to promote the candidacy of the Sacred River to the heritage of humanity. It is a participatory process that has achieved very singular features in recent years, such as the BIC declaration in 2019. One of the most important is when the National Council of Historical Heritage of Spain takes this candidacy as a candidacy of the Kingdom of Spain, and all the steps have always been absolutely positive. That is why the fact is that we were so surprised and so impressed by the recent report of ICOMOS; a report which is certainly hard, perhaps disproportionate, and which has caused some defence. Obviously, it recommends non-inclusion, something that is quite common in these files. Without going further, we have in Spain now twelve similar files with the same procedure, in which they continue to work, as is the Priorat and the Talayotic Menorca. In view of the report by ICOMOS, we have adapted a decision between the Government of Spain and the Government of Galicia, a shared and prudent decision, and we consider between the Government of Spain -- the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through its ambassador to UNESCO -- and the Council of Galicia a strategic approach to retraining, prosecuting and correcting what was needed to return more forcefully. And we did it with total transparency. At UNESCO's own headquarters we had this meeting with the ambassador. I recommend to you, Madam, that you listen to the statements made by the Ambassador of Spain to UNESCO, who is a member of your party. I meet with the mayors of the territory, with their main agents, and I also had the opportunity to present this project to the members of the UNESCO Committee, twenty-one ambassadors from different countries of the world. And we had an initiative that, on technical matters, couldn't get in. It's also true that there are many aggressors, there's a lot of this about "I said so," and absolutely critical political attacks. The truth is the report is known. There are some literal errors; it says, for example, that affect the canisters or the windmills, when, within the scope, they don't exist; or it says there are eleven pantanes, when there are three. And the key to everything is the speech about what is understood by landscape, it's a conceptual question: if we understand by landscape a static element, fossilized, or if it's a living landscape that is changing as man intervenes on it. Obviously, we have to reformulate the story, we have to think about how we can continue this struggle to get this candidacy forward and, obviously, we cannot surrender, we are not going to surrender...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u180	...because we have confidence, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u181	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u182	...in our technicians and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u184	...in the qualities of the Sacred Ribeira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u185	You have another shift later. [[Applause]] For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u186	Yes. Counsellor, your statements draw several conclusions, but, in the end, they all conflict that this candidacy will be reintroduced. We understand, then, that they would learn the lesson and that, for the future re-presentation, they will count on the social and cultural movement of the area and the municipalities concerned themselves, which you know they did not know the strategy formulated by the Union. Because it talks about meetings and so on, but in the end, it's just one or two meetings over all these years. Because they continue to talk about, for example, the Sacred Ribeira Plan, which -- it ensures -- will be allocated 34 million euros. But the reality is that nothing is known of that plan, of the strategic lines of action, of the fate of specific games, or of how much it will correspond to each council in each exercise, or to which it would advise belongs each budget. They can't trust everything about a project presented to the Next Generation funds, which is budgeted at EUR 40 million, when they know it's a real intelligence and there's more uncertainty than certainty. I do not know whether you can also tell us how many times the Interdepartmental Commission of the Sacred River has met, which has been presented by you as a key tool in coordinating actions to advance with the maximum guarantees in the development of this candidacy. See, at the beginning of 2017, the Socialist Group was asking in this same parliamentary headquarters whether what seemed to be the paralysis of the process was due to the problems arising from the delimitation of the area to be included, the protests generated by the lack of adequate information to collect, the lack of reports and studies, or the rejection by economic activities that are generated in that delimited area. Questions that were asked five years ago the neighborhood and the interested groups and that today we are also. What we want to ask you is whether you think what you need to do is simply clean up the current project or, on the other hand, the most appropriate thing is to stop, think about it, make yourself self-critical and see if it's possible to change the current formulation and try it with another more realistic and paste into the territory; of course, that's yes, worked with the social, economic and cultural agents of the Sacred Ribeira, who, in good faith, will not focus their strategy on the spirituality of the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u187	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. For the Government's reply, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u188	Madam President, you forget that this candidacy is not only from the Council of Galicia; it is from the Council of Galicia and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. And ask me what we're going to do. I told you, we're going to correct, sue, adjust, so we can get past this cut-off note, if you like, a technical report from ICOMOS. And we're not going to do this alone. It's not only going to do it in Galicia; it's going to do it in close collaboration, absolutely narrow and with total complicity, with the Government of Spain, with the Ministry of Culture. We're going to do it with local agents. Well, you say we meet once or twice with the mayors and with the different agents of the territory -- that's a joke; it's a joke or a lack of knowledge I guess -- with the neighbors and with the most significant collective around. And there is also a question that has not been said, because this report by the ICOMOS which, against the report, raises these doubts, says that they are very positive for a candidacy basic aspects such as protection, planning and coordination; it highlights them in a very positive way. We know -- we know it -- that we have to repeat the conceptual story. What do you mean by landscape? Live, evolutionary, fossilized? We have to change the proposal, we know it. And I ask, after listening to you, which side are you on? On what side is the Socialist Party in this case? Because I hear prominent members of the ministries I quoted earlier and I think we're all together, but I listen to you and it gives you the feeling that you don't. In any case, I'll tell you the roadmap we're going to follow. At the end of July, in a city in China, the UNESCO Committee met to launch a series of decisions. In this case, we will point out, through the ambassador, that we are -- and we are interested -- to continue working to improve the proposal within a context of strategic approval. Later, in September, and jointly, technicians of the Ministry of Culture and more technicians of the Galician Union will request meetings with ICOMOS technicians to approach conceptual positions. Obviously, we'll have to reformulate, even expand, the technical team, no doubt. And we're going to do different kinds of actions: scientific meetings, outreach meetings, greater involvement of the whole of citizenship... ultimately, our political commitment to the Sacred Ribeira is intact, it's still stronger. The Sacred Ribeira Plan bets on the biosphere reserve, the Tourist Sustainability Plan, the Next Generation project... And, look, here, at the end of the day, Madam, there are two options -- when there's a reverse, even if it's hard, there's two choices -- or one yields, you assume what they tell us from outside, and you use a reverse politically, regardless of the consequences; or you work, you have confidence, you admit your mistakes, you keep going with an absolute conviction that you're taking that candidacy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u190	...is good for the Sacred River...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u191	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u192	...is good for Galicia and is good for Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u193	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the temporary situation of staff in the service of the Greek Public Administration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u194	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u195	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Counsellor, since the very beginning of this legislation, we have been interested, through various initiatives -- even with a question to you when he came to present the budgets, and also with initiatives for questions in committee, amends, proposals not for law -- to know the position and actions of the People's Party and the Committee of Galicia on the different judgments of the European Union's High Court of Justice regarding the temporary recruitment of public administrations. So, we referred mainly to the judgment of 19 March, the well-known judgment of 19 March 2020. Right now we could talk about the June 3, 2021 -- that is, about a few days ago -- that made the Full Social Hall of the Supreme Court meeting to reconsider what until now was its doctrine. Well, this European Union Court of Justice basically established two things. He drew his ears to the Spanish State because of the failure to transpose a Community directive; he failed to transpose that directive which lasted about 20 years. So it's not just the government of Zapatero, nor the Bipartite; no, it's also the government of Aznar -- famous at the National Audience -- and also the government of Rajoy. Well, apart from that lack of transposition, he also talked about abuse of temporary recruitment in public administrations and about temporarily taking over, through temporary contracts, places that were structural. He finds that this abuse is not alien to the Galician Union, and the problem is we don't know how alien it is. Because if we know, through the Transparency Portal -- not excessively up-to-date -- that there is a temporality and a temporary recruitment of more than 25 percent of the staff in the service of the Public Service. There are programmes, such as education or health, where it can reach 30 % or 40 %; or even in the Consortium, which surrounds 90 %. Well, but that's temporary recruitment, they're not necessarily situations of abuse of temporary recruitment, of law fraud; nor is any law fraud of temporary recruitment. So we don't know -- and I think you probably don't either -- the magnitude of the problem. Well, towards the future it is known that the Minister of Public Administration is making an effort, is negotiating with trade union organizations to fix this problem. Remove replenish rate -- well, it's not very proclive to eliminate it, but, well, it would be a solution -- compliance with the OPs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u196	Finish, please, Mr. Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u197	...the establishment of a sanctioning regime...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u198	Thank you very much. Time's up. [[Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, we're going fast in our questions, Mr. Tabares. [[Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u199	Mr. President. Your Honor, on this matter, three things. The first: in the fight against the temporality of public employment, no autonomous administration is doing more than Welsh, and we are doing so with union consensus. We have signed an agreement with trade union organizations to reduce the rate of time around 7%, we have approved job offers every year up to the maximum allowed and we have made oppositions, such as those that were held last weekend throughout Galicia, in which more than 37,000 people were summoned. Secondly, I would like to point out what is the main factor that currently causes temporality, which is nothing other than -- and you just said that in your first intervention too -- that the Government of Spain refuses to withdraw the replacement rate. And it's precisely the limits that introduces those that cause temporality. Ladies and gentlemen, the replacement rates have been applied since the last century, although it is true that in 2009 with the Government of Zapatero it is the first time that 100% goes to 30%; by the way, with BNG's favourable vote on general budgets, which have introduced this cut. In later years, the Socialist Government itself took the cut in replacement rates to 10%; that is, 90% of the vacancies could not be covered. Consequently, what was being generated were important temporality bags. And the third question is to explain to you what the position of the German Government in the matter of fighting timelessness is. We have formally requested the elimination of replacement rates in all institutional forums in the field of public service in which we are represented. Tomorrow, at the sectoral conference on this subject, I will remind Minister Iceta. And also, Galicia was the only autonomous community that presented a formal proposal to the central government for reform of EBEP to eliminate the rate of rest and anticipate the calls for opposition based on retirement forecast, with the objective that once a vacancy occurs, it can already be covered by a fixed person. Now let's see what the BNG posture is. I see you included a very specific paragraph -- I'll read it textually -- when it was President Sánchez's investment; I read it textually: "To analyze the formulas to progressively improve the replacement rates in public administrations in order to ensure the good functioning of public services." As far as I can read, analyzing isn't about deleting, which I just heard from you; maybe it's about gradually improving them, progressively, if it's true I don't know in what sense. The Greek Government, if we're clear, doesn't want any limitations on summoning job offers, because to be a worker you've done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u200	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u201	...in an administration there's only one way, and no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u202	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the reply, Mr. Tabares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u204	I see that there is no uniform criterion, at least, between a meeting in this Parliament and the Galician Union because when the general director of the Civil Service appeared he just read my question. And you don't seem to have read my question, because I'm not talking to you about the replacement rates. Restoring rates can be a problem. And I advise you to read -- I thought you would -- the European Union Court of Justice ruling on June 3, because that's not good for you, that's not an excuse for what we're talking about. I mean, we're talking about two things. One is towards the future. Well, it's good to take out the OPs, it's good to meet the OPs, and then the squares that come out in the selective processes are covered. There is a discrepancy of approximately 70% between the squares that go out in the O.P. and the squares that are covered. But my question is different. My question is, what's going to happen to that human capital, to those people who for one, two, twenty or thirty years are in a position to abuse temporality? Do you know how many there are? Do you know what their circumstances are? Do you know what your age is? Do you know how they got to that position in the public sector? Because that's not indifferent. Here are judgments, one from Ourense, another recent -- we're talking about April 2021 -- and another, for example, about the Vigo Social Court, where these people make them fixed. What if those O.P.s they're talking to those people, after they've celebrated the OP, if they recognize the fixture? It's something that's happening and they're recognising the judges. Or what if those people, as they are sent from Brussels, those workers and workers who have, in some cases, been 20 and 30 years old, if they are recognized by the right -- in the words of this Luxembourg ruling -- to a dissuasive and effective compensation? What would that mean for the budgets of the Galician Union? Don't know that -- which is what we're asking you for from the Nationalist Block in Wales -- it's an absolute irresponsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Tabaretes. [[Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Your time is up. Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u206	Your Honor, -- I insist --, since Galicia we're making the most important effort in reducing timeliness. All the rankings -- and it's only enough to see the official documentation of the Ministry of Public Administration -- put us among communities with less time. Theme number one. Please review your data. Theme number two. It's worth reading your question that I'm now going to talk to you about a part of it that you haven't referred to at this point more than in the past, which is the theme of the Galician Welfare Consortium, created by the BNG -- that you have to say all -- with only temporary staff, but selected off the lists that I had at that time had the Board. I guess it wouldn't even be worth them in the Bipartite -- number one theme. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Theme number two, leaving your staff -- you who are always teaching, I was talking about a moment of certain judgments, now I'll refer to them if I have time -- outside of the collective staff agreement and with a 32% lower pay. You know what we did? Fix this mess. Fix this mess! [[Murmurs.]] First of all, and according to the IGC trade unions, Labour and UGT committees, with three questions: first, incorporation of staff into the single collective agreement -- they cannot be out; all are equal, they are public employees -- ; theme number two, wages, up 32 %; and thirdly, guaranteeing oppositions... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u207	Quiet. Mr. Tabaret, be quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u208	...because -- I repeat again -- there is only one form of access to public service: calls under the principles of equality, merit, capacity and publicity; there is no other way, valuing the services provided, up to 40 %. By the way, a number of the assessments you have just made right now should know that they will be dealt with tomorrow at the sectoral conference and that they will respond to what you have just said. I don't want to go ahead, because God knows what can come out tomorrow and I don't want to be responsible for what can be done at the central administration level. So there's only one form of access -- like Galicia, very few communities -- And by the way, look at the data, because the first statement you made about some sector is totally wrong. The Autonomous Community of Galicia, in general terms, in the four sub-components that are valued, is the second which has less time, and this is high. But he has just referred to the health sector incorrectly, and especially on the subject of education, rather than wrongly. In education we are the community that presents less temporality. [[Murmurs.]] So it goes our utmost consideration to the people who want access to public employment in Galicia. We will be the most agile of all autonomous communities and we will take into account both the people who are working with us on the present day and the people who also want to compete with the oppositions. Go ahead. They are all the same for us, so we will do it, and so we prove it. And for all the years we call as much as we are allowed, as much! By the way -- I repeat again --, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u209	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u210	...of BNG because you can't invest in a gentleman, deal with the replacement rates and now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u211	Thank you very much. Time's up. [[Mr. Advocate of Fairy and Public Administration, Martínez García, speaks words which are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Advocate of Fairy and Public Administration, Martínez García, speaks words which are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Valeriano. [[Applause]] We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question by Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the operation of the Sogama complex in Cerceda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u212	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u213	Good afternoon. Mrs Vázquez Mejuto, welcome to Parliament. The truth is, you resisted it after the BNG repeatedly asked for your appearance, but at last we have it here. I have to tell you that I was worried because there were rumors that you had fled through a rotating door, following the steps of your predecessor in charge, Mrs. Bea Mato. And also by Antonio Coucier, and by Carlos del Alamo... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u214	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u215	...that you're doing merits also to follow that path. Look, Counselor, something smells like rot in Cerceda, in Sogama; it smells like rotten and worse. And under the advertising mountains of Sogama and Junta, of the Environmental Council, there's a lot of garbage out there. They can't hide it any longer. First question. Sogama's complex is on, it's in a state of true collapse. They announced an increase that cost more than 323 million euros and they have to divert tons of garbage every day to pour them directly into the dumpster of Areosa, the free cane. Second question. The composting plant -- the crown jewel -- they sold it to bomb and dish like the big one, like "it's gone," and it turns out it's an absolute fiasco. In 2018, they announced that the works were finished. Until two years later, you weren't there to say it was starting to work. And three and a half years later, they still didn't get the first kilogram of compost out of that plant. It's a real mess! The day they pull out the first kilogram of compost will take television there to make a live connection, like the big event of the year, I suppose. [[Murmurs.]] Third question. There is a bunch of irregularities in the transport of waste from packaging machines to Sogama, which is also a service that is co-sponsored by Copasa, which manages most packaging plants and also an important part of road transport. And, fourth question. The four major contracts of the Sogama complex in Cerceda are in the hands of the same company, Valtalia Group: the incineration plant, the classification plant, the sink and composting plant as subcontract. It's over 500 million euros. And if it wasn't enough, Valtalia had very direct and very close connections with Copasa. What's this called, Counselor? Is it a monopoly? Is it a oligopolie? Is it a cartel? What's this? Where's the competition? Therefore, it is clear with all of this that Sogama's scrupulous failure that, even with all the propaganda of the world...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u217	...may...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u218	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u219	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u220	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Mr Bará, I'm here, and I'm glad you're glad I'm here. I'll last for a while, as long as it's useful to the Greeks and the Greeks. I'm just giving you advice: recycle! The multi-R concept is fundamental, and always talking about Sogama in those same terms the truth is that, in the end, it ends up being residual, and that's what's happening to you. I'll tell you, the plant is operational 24 hours a day and 365 days a year. And, thanks to the fact that we have that plant, the wastes that you generate, like those I do, are treated every day. It's a total of 2.2 million kilograms of urban waste per day in Sogama; in summer we can even treat 3 million kilograms -- in summertime -- in summer. So I say here loud and clear that Sogama works well. Sogama works very well, but it does both the human team and the technologies that are being implemented. It's a public company that we can consider exemplary. I just have to remind you that now, during the pandemic, the Prosecutor's Office has opened files in most autonomous communities. In the case of Galicia, although they did their inspections, it was not so; for something it will be, Mr. Bará! It is exemplary because it meets all environmental requirements certified by technicians. Technicians are when they rule each other and also when they rule others. What happens is that, suddenly, some politicians have become technicians and already, well, the question seems to be different. It also complies with the Public Sector Contracts Act always -- and if not, you report it, but not publicly, go where you have to go -- and, on the other hand, it complies with the current labour risk prevention legislation, because it seems that you have also forgotten all this. We seek coordination with the municipalities, which are the ones who have the competence to send the separate waste. I don't know who you're to blame for if there's more or less bioresidue. There is an obligation and there are some competences, which are those of the municipalities, and of course we will treat and treat the bioresidues. And we made investments, of course, that are certified, and thanks to these investments, we can move from 800,000 tons a year to 1 million tons a year. And there's also a dump, there's got to be a dump, which is the instrument you have to support, because we know that not everything can be recycled, that not everything can be revalued. We have complied with all the requirements -- as I told you earlier --, it is certified by the continuing official inspections carried out in the competent framework...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u221	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u222	So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u223	You have another shift later. [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser, Vázquez Mejuto, speaks words which are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, your time is up, Counselor. [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser, Vázquez Mejuto, speaks words which are not perceived.]] Time's up. [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser, Vázquez Mejuto, speaks words which are not perceived.]] Time's up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the reply, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u224	Counsellor, you are here obliged by the questions of the BNG because the People's Group has vetoed your presence at the plenary, which is clear. [[Applause]] And, look, the waste in my house, the bioresidues, you know where they're going? They're not going to Sogama, they're going to a community composer that's 100 meters from my house, and they're becoming compost, the compound that you're not able to pull out on Areosa's plant, because they've taken the waste from three municipalities for a year and a half and they couldn't get out a kilo of compost. [[Applause]] And now they're announcing three more plants? Well, they're going the wrong way. You should learn from who does it well, Counselor. You should learn. Well, now it seems like they're going to make a guide to biocomposing bioresidues, precisely with the help of the Pontevedra Deputy Revitalization Plan. That way, I'll tell you. Look, it's not true that Sogama is operating 24 hours. She was collapsed for many weeks by an incineration plant damage -- of which you didn't report to the media or report to the Greek society -- and that forced the trucks to go straight into the Areosa dump. I have proof here, I have written orders that give the trucks to go and pour right there. So don't come here to tell us about them. And besides, I could tell you about the conditions in which you work in that dump -- lack of lighting, insecurity -- I also have photographs showing that the axes of the trucks are literally on top of the air, the last wheel -- there's this picture. [[O Mr Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] So don't come here to tell us stories. [[Madam Environmental Advisor, Territory and Housing, Vázquez Mejuto, denies with his head and shows a photograph from his chair.]] More things. The Copasa and Valtalia monopoly. What do you have to tell me about that? What do you have to tell me about the obvious irregularities in the case of transport? They carry loads of cargo on vehicles, with the risks they have. And the underlying problem here is the fiasco, the failure of Sogama, which doesn't meet, which leads to 15% recycling -- which is an ironic figure, because we're on the tail of the state and the tail of Europe -- and 85% goes to finalist formulas that are incineration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u225	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u226	...and also the dump. Not like that, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs Vázquez Mejuto speaks for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u228	Thank you, President. The rest of us have pictures, too, eh! And besides, I want you to see it, because it looks like you're talking about a real tsunami, where there's accidents all the time... [[Madam Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Vázquez Mejuto, shows a photograph.]] Maybe they'd like it, but it's not like that. This is Areosa's dump. Look at him. [[Madam Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Vázquez Mejuto, shows the same photograph again.]] But I still do. I invite you, go to Sogama, talk to the technicians, please, and from there you will have another concept. Probably rejected by you or by me would be much worse. There are people there who are doing very well. We must -- and we must -- innovate, innovate in speech. We must redesign the speech, the multi-R concept. Mr. Bará, Sogama is an example, Sogama is a model. And I can tell you why it's an example and why it's a model. Yesterday I was president of Sogama in Navarre, invited to be Europe's most efficient public enterprise. That's the result, and it's certified. He's got 500 direct jobs, 500 indirect jobs, and very skilled staff, and he's also committed, which works with maximum purity, with maximum control and also with maximum responsibility, and he's got the best technologies, the vanguard ones, the last generation ones. I want to remind you that the recovery plants, in addition, are the ones that are continually-- that's what makes them laugh! -- examined, because that's what legislation says. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With which, there's nothing to hide, everything is transparency. I also have to tell you that I don't know what's bothering you. What's bothering you, that the Galician companies take part in a contest, win it and give jobs to the Greeks? What do you want? What do you want, companies that aren't Welsh? Well, if they won the contest, they'd be welcome, but it's not the case; they'd win a Galician company and we'd yell at the sky. And, above, they love to say that if you wear spins... what are you talking about? Actually, you look at your shoulders and then you talk about turning doors. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Composting. In the case of Areosa, see, bioresidues arriving at Areosa arrive with only 3% of improprie, and other bioresidues can be certified. Not so, you go to the community composer and I go to the individual composer, but as if it were something new. Look, there are thousands of individual composers scattered across Galicia, there's no need for a guide; what we do is redesign guides and collaborate with everyone. From there, just one data: in 2008, ruling the BNG, 413,379 tons of garbage went to the dump. Year 2021, governs the PP...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u229	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u230	......that you don't want to see the face...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u231	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u232	...or 98,6 % less...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u233	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u234	...it's only five thousand a hundred...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u235	Your time is up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u236	Thank you very much. [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser, Vázquez Mejuto, speaks words which are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Time's up. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next question. Question by Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and two other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the execution, in the first half of 2021, of the works of renewal of the roads roads PO-552, at their passage through Priegue and La Ramallosa, in the municipality of Nigrán
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u237	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u238	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor. In the village of Nigrán, the autonomous suburbs of the PO-552 are totally abandoned in their way by Priegue and in their course by Ramallosa. These roads need urgent improvement by the Galician Union. The municipal government of Nigeria has tried on many occasions, with the Infrastructure and Mobility Council, to renew its borders in its various tranches, without having any answer. This demand has been made year after year. The Town Hall has repeatedly called for improvements to the safety and accessibility of the neighbourhood of this town. These requests have already been transferred several times to your advice. The last claim of these infrastructures was last November, at a meeting between the mayor of Nigeria and the delegate of the Galician Union in the area. The Socialist Parliamentary Group further moved to Galicia, through the amendments to the 2021 autonomous budgets, this amendment to provide new barriers to PO-552 at its passage through Priegue and La Ramallosa, for being in a very bad state, with more than thirty years of construction and without being repaired. The reality is that they are totally inaccessible, they're broken, with non-existent frames and elements that hinder the passage of any wheelchair or baby cart. Of course, this amendment was rejected by the Galician Council. For all this, we demand from the Socialist Parliamentary Group that the renovation works begin as soon as possible on the outskirts of the PO-552. In addition, the Autonomic Government is developing a road safety plan in that area, and in the allegations made by the municipal government in Niger they requested that these barriers be included in the project. If they had political will, they would do this work. In addition, the Council of Niger has been asking the Infrastructure Council for years to arrange for Street Otero Pedrayo in Panxon. And, as you asked for several times, the Town Hall decided to ask you to transfer ownership of this road, which you did, but now who will do the works on this sidewalk is the Council of Niger -- because they did it quickly, pass the title to the Town Hall. So now this municipal administration will do the works for an amount of EUR 1.6 million. A real shame, you don't do the works and you have to do the Town Councils. That these infrastructures are not carried out to which it primarily harms is the neighbouring country of Niger. Counsellor, will you go to Galicia to perform the works of renewal of the sidewalks?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u239	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u240	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I think the first thing you should ask is how much the Galician board has invested in road safety to improve road safety and to improve mobility in the Nigerian county. I'm going to tell you the figure: in the last decade, 24.7 million euros, almost 25 million euros in improving road safety and mobility, which benefits the municipality of Nigeria. So he nailed the nail with his question. I'll give you the precise figure, which I'll explain. We did, for example, the Roadmap in the region of Vigo, we identified 11 itineraries in the region of Vigo, of which 3 benefit directly to Niger; 6.5 kilometers of new itineraries for safe mobility, thinking of vulnerable users, pedestrians, cyclists; the path at PO-325, which is in the area of Baiona, but benefits from it, of course, Nigeria, with EUR 390,000; the path at PO-340, in Gondomar and A Ramallosa, with EUR 1.7 million; the path at PO-552, which are three truces, two in Vigo and another in Niger, in the area of Priegue, with more than EUR 660,000; and another tract in Priegue. So I'm really trying to improve mobility in the Nigrán Town Hall, which is what Nigrán neighbors benefit from. These are the works we do in Nigeria, Your Honor, you do. These paths are what we do in Nigeria. [[The lady advisor to Infrastructures and Mobility, Vázquez Mourelle, shows a photograph.]] This road is made in Nigeria by the Galician Union. You're going to Nigeria? Didn't you see her? Couldn't you pass through her? These are the works we do. So the balance is almost 25 million euros. It's integral performances that not only make the firm better, but we even do more than correspond to the municipalities, such as pipelines or service improvements. So these are important investments. We improved road safety at PO-325, with 8.4 million euros; we also improved mobility, allowing all movements at AG-57, which was a very important investment. Also in the ATT, in the elimination of truces of accident concentration, which you shouldn't mind; in fact, there's a project that we're modifying in response to the city councils' allegations. I would understand that I had wondered about this project of improvement of TCA, of road safety, but I see that your priorities must be different. In the maintenance and maintenance of roads, which is important, we have invested 700,000 euros, and now we have just weighed 1.5 million euros to improve the firm of this road and another one. I'd like the Government of Spain also to attend to the signatures of its roads in Galicia and you asked by the firm, that all we see are dark in many of them. What I just reported is obvious: 25 million euros in the last decade in the municipality of Niger. I see the Socialist Party really lost on roads, I don't know if they've been disturbed by that amendment of the transfer of AP-9, which they've lost and they don't know where the north and the south are on roads. So, for my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Mourelle. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u242	Thank you, President. Home!, in the last decade, and you can also tell me that in the last twenty years; i.e., let's go! Look, you know what's going on? They don't have any political will, because they could include these borders in the Road Safety Project they're doing. You might include these suburbs, but you don't have any political will. Look, don't make the arrangements of these suburbs at their passage through Nigrán, it's aggravating compared to the other municipalities, in which works are being done. We call for equality and equity for all the municipalities of Galicia, regardless of the political color of your mayor or mayor. The Galician Union has to rule for all the Greeks and the Greeks, not just for the people of some municipalities, and I'm going to repeat this every time I talk about infrastructure. [[Applause]] I said it the other day in commission and I'll repeat it again. [[The lady advisor to Infrastructures and Mobility, Vázquez Mourelle, shows a photograph.]] Yes, because, look, the Galaga Infrastructure Agency has invested, through its agreements, €14,277,000 in PP municipalities and €280,000 in socialist councils. It's a scandal!, it's a real shame they only invest in the Town Councils of the People's Party. It's incredible!: 14 million in the PP municipalities, EUR 280,000 in the socialist councils. This is a real shame, you can't go on like this. Why, Counselor, don't we run infrastructures in municipalities like The Guard, Nigrán, The Porriño, Vigo, Moaña, Cangas... and could you go on? Why? Why not invest as you invest in other municipalities of other political colors? Why? Can you say that? I don't want to think it's because of your political color. Galicia is all of us. Women and men living in municipalities that are not governed by the People's Party are also entitled to new infrastructure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u243	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u244	This is total discrimination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u245	For the Government's reply, the Minister of Infrastructure and Mobility, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u246	These are the works we do in Nigeria. Do you think there is a lack of political will 25 million euros -- almost 25 million euros -- about roads? [[Lady Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Vázquez Mourelle, shows a photograph.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u247	Excuse me, Counselor, get up... it's just that you don't listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u248	For these are the works that we do in Niger. He's not telling the truth, and let me tell him he's lying. I'm going to relate to you only a couple of hydraulic works already: Viveiro, 4 million euros -- who governs in Viveiro?--; Burela -- who governs in Burela?--, millions of euros in the debugger; Foz... No, don't say no, and that's not the case. [[Murmurs.]] I got caught, the works we're doing in Pontedeme of improvement and sanitation. [[Mrs. Gallego Sanromán shows a photograph.]] And in Nigeria we took the debugger. Investment is titanical, titanical, I'll tell you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But in any case, we're going to see if we're looking for a solution to this whole topic that you're discussing and see if you're really setting your criteria, which is not political, and road criteria, which I see lost. As far as roads are concerned, I see them really lost. They've already finished it with the amendment in AP-9 and now they're finishing it with today's question. I've already told you to focus on a topic that refers, above all, to urban truces, not interurbanes; a theme that is as a result of urban development around the roads, which is logical, that the roads are used for urban development. Galician Union has 5,500 kilometres of roads. And if you want, I'm going to send you the list of all the works we're doing in the counties of the Socialist Party, because the debugger of Gondomar -- that we're carrying the exploitation of the debugger -- and that of Nigeria is a lot of millions of euros and a lot of technical work, but you see that it matters very little. In any case, I believe that this demagogic criticism should not do so and that I should be more aware of what you are saying here in Parliament. The normal thing, as I said, is that roads are used for urban development and, above all, in these urban truces, which are mainly of municipal competence, because they go along these borders the urban services. If you don't let me finish... If he listens to me for a while, maybe we'll all learn a little. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're in urban truces. I propose a quick solution: that the Ministry of Transport change the technical criteria it has imposed on the next generation funds and that it can invest in municipalities like the one in Nigeria. How about you? You don't know that the Ministry of Transport has imposed criteria that prevent you from investing on a road like PO-552 in urban truces on the sidewalks? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't you know? We jointly request the Ministry of Transport to change the criteria of the next generation funds and that we can invest in sustainable mobility, as in the council of Niger, which is what we want to do, and we include it in the Road Safety Plan, of course yes. So I invite you to do that, to ask the Ministry of Transport. I sum up, my intervention: 25 million euros in the last decade by the Galician board on roads in the municipality of Nigeria; and the Ministry of Transport, which prevents the next generation funds from investing in Nigeria in sustainable mobility. I insist, we're very lost...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u249	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u250	...in road matters. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u251	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the budgetary allocation of the Social Economy Programme for the year 2021, as well as on the number of beneficiary cooperatives expected
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u252	To put the question, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u253	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, every year, in July, specifically on 28th -- that is, next Monday -- we commemorate the European Day of Social Economy Companies; a celebration that also becomes a great opportunity to give more visibility to this sector and to recognize its importance, of course. Always, but with special intensity at the present moment, marked by the indispensable reactivation after the moments of greater virulence of the pandemic, those who bet on the enterprise, the social economy, those people who imagine projects and transform their ideas into actions deserve the support of the Galician Union and deserve the support of the Government of Galicia. In fact, the social economy, in addition to being a source of wealth and employment, plays a role that goes far beyond numbers and goes far beyond numbers. I also take this opportunity to underline precisely the commitment and appreciation of the People's Parliamentary Group to the world of cooperatives and all they represent. In fact, over the years, we have been able to know closely this laborious, efficient, effective sector with a vision of the future; a sector that shows many of Galicia's best qualities, not only of its products, but, above all, of its extraordinary people, tenacious, hardworking and valuable people. Therefore, the action of the Government of Galicia, in ongoing dialogue with this sector, must continue to bet on this way of doing business through actions aimed at promoting its growth and strengthening. It will also be a good thing to step up support for those projects that contribute through the cooperative model or any of the formulas of the social economy, and to make available their promoters help to create, maintain and improve the competitiveness of these projects. One way to do this is through the Programme Aprol-Economy Social; a program driven by the Union through the Employment and Equality Council. This initiative has been developing for years now with great success and today, Counsellor, we want to evaluate it through this question. In short, we want to know how the government that presides over Alberto Núñez Feijóo is pushing the social economy and cooperative enterprise as a source of opportunity and employment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u255	That's the reason for the question. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u256	Thank you very much. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u257	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Balsairo, and good afternoon to all, gentlemen. As you say, the social economy represents an identity seal in Galicia and, above all, a seal, a key piece in our economic fabric. 7% of GDP in our autonomous community comes from social economy entities and has a special presence in rural areas. The entities of this type, in addition, have shown particular resistance during the economic crisis and I think, of course, that they will have a decisive role to play in the reactivation of the productive tissue. That is why we are firmly committed to policies that support the different social economy formulas, such as this programme of what we are talking about today, the Social Economy Programme. It is €3.3 million for the budget with which the programme counts this year, with two lines of help, and the two, of course, for the creation and maintenance of employment in cooperatives and in working societies, but with a double boost: on the one hand, a programme for entities and on the other hand, a programme for the support of people who access cooperatives and societies. The first of the lines, which is to promote employment in cooperatives and in working societies, has EUR 1.82 million, and are subsidies aimed at facilitating incorporation as people working in cooperatives or in working societies, as I say, well as unemployed people, as well as working people, but on a temporary basis, or as a proof partner. As a novelty this year, we have incorporated in this line the possibility of access to aid for cooperatives or working societies that are responsible for the conversion or transformation of commercial enterprises. And the second line is the line of promotion of access to social status. It accounts for 1.5 million euros, and they are subsidies already directed directly to unemployed people to promote their incorporation as members. So what facilitates is the realization of the economic nearness that they have to do for their incorporation into the society in question. It is important to note that although the two programmes are looking for aid with a general standard base, which is EUR 6,000, however, they have cumulative increases of 25% for specific groups, among others, youth cooperatives; that is, those consisting mostly of workers under the age of 30, but also other groups: women, older than 45, persons with disabilities, returnees and also the case of cooperatives or working societies when they are found in a rural council. It is very important, I would like to highlight the success of this programme in the last four years, of the Social Economy: 2,000 people incorporated, one thousand cooperative beneficiaries; in 2020, 109 cooperatives and 236 new partners; and in 2021 we expanded the budget by 8.15 %, with which we intend to reach 120 cooperatives and 250 new incorporations as partners. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u258	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. If there's a place in Europe where there's no need to explain the strengthening and business model of the social economy, that's Galicia, that's our autonomous community. Our cooperatives are present throughout the territory and in all sectors, but above all they are very much present, mainly in rural areas. In recent years, the transformation of companies with a capital-based structure and associated cooperative labour companies is becoming more and more frequent. To help these companies and for their change to cooperative societies they have an ally in the Government of Galicia and they have an ally in the Union of Galicia. And the judgment of the data you just offered, the figures bear witness to that. You spoke and quoted about 2,000 people incorporated and a thousand cooperatives would benefit in the last four years. But, since we have the opportunity, Madam Counsellor, we would like to know other actions of the Union for the sake of the social economy, under the premise that cooperativeism in Galicia continues to contribute to the progress and well-being of this land; other actions in favour of our businesses and our cooperatives, which, as in the Programme Aprol-Economic Social, serve from the Government of the United States of Galicia to respond with facts to the demands, challenges and responsibilities of citizens, neighbors, neighbours, Welsh and Welsh. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. For the Government's replica shift, you have the floor of the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u261	Thank you, President. Yes, indeed, the action of the Union in favour of the social economy is not restricted to this programme, but we have a broad strategy in this area, and I will therefore take note of some of the most important programmes. The first of them, already well known, is the Eusumo Network, which promotes cooperativeism. It is a network that counts, for the period 2021-2022, with 634,000 euros by the Employment Council. Last April 30 we renewed the partnership agreement with the Galaga Social Economy Forum, with which we intend to collaborate in the visibility of these social economy formulas in Galicia. We launched on May 17th a web platform that I think also has transcendence, because it's the catalogue. There are all social economy entities in the autonomous community. They are, as I say, officially catalogued on the Council website. And another field we're trying to move forward is to promote equality within the social economy, because moreover, the social economy has a type of very equal, very equitable entities. And a good example is the Growing Together program. We're already in the fifth edition, we're done last Friday this fifth edition. And in these 50 days, women have been trained this year to improve all that women's talent means linked to this economic issue. We also have or are going to launch two totally new programmes this year: the first one is the Es-Transforma Programme, which is very linked to economic reactivation and which has a budget between 2021 and 2022 of two and a half million euros, and is destined precisely to recover companies from other types, commercial companies and crises that, for economic reasons or even for lack of generational relief, have a prospect of closure. What it's about is supporting its transformation into companies of social economy. And a second program is the Bono Consolidation, also linked to this economic reactivation, with 2.87 million euros. We intend to reach up to 300 companies with support for expenditure coverage, small investments, and ultimately to consolidate their business activity. We know a little about the challenges facing these social economy entities in the future. So these aids are aimed at investing in adapting companies to the new economic context and also to the digital age. Finally, I believe that Junta has a real commitment and a commitment consistent with the social economy, which is reflected in the 2019-2021 Social Economy Strategy; this year alone is EUR 33 million for the social economy, 22% more than the previous year. So we've demonstrated these joint commitments with facts, betting on the social economy, as I say, as a driving force -- I think -- of strong employment, quality employment and innovative and inclusive employment. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u262	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da Paloma Castro Rey and three other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the implementation of measures guaranteeing the protection and access to justice of victims of gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u263	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u264	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The development of the right to free justice in Galicia is given by a regulation, by a regulation of 2017. From the Socialist Group, we believe that this regulation -- the Galician regulation -- presents important evidence that can jeopardize the victim's right to appropriate counseling and an easy defense, which is what we bring here today. Look, I know you're a law degree, too. I don't know if you've come to put on the toga, but I do, I've worked for almost a decade on this special turn of gender violence, and so I can tell you by first hand that the work that the lawyers do at this moment is fundamental, because at this early moment where the victim is totally minated, insecure and dead of fear what he needs is a friendly hand, an empathic lawyer or lawyer, sensitized to the subject, who, in addition to advising her legally, listen to her and tell her that everything will go well. Because waiting in police stations and courts is very long, successive statements reviving the ill-treatment, very hard, and fear sometimes, invincible, fear of the future, to meet the batterer, the consequences of the given step. So, at that moment, bad counseling can get that woman to step back and she can add to that terrible statistic that tells us that 80 percent of the women killed didn't have prior complaints. So we can't let that happen. I don't think anyone doubting these manifestations, and I say that a pyroman can't be a forest guard or -- even more serious -- that a pedophile can't work with minors, and not only do I say it, but he says it by law. That's why we don't understand it as a batterer if he can be the legalist of a victim of gender-based violence. On the other hand, this protection to the victim has also advanced in the matter of revitalization, which we have always talked about, for example, to the Gesell rooms, which he promised his colleague the Counsellor of Justice -- who waited for him here today, because we're talking about a legal issue -- So we understand that here, in this victim's revitalization, there's the second of the eaves we've come to ask, that it's the special protection that these victims deserve from gender violence, because the regulation of action, of the established legal unit of action, only encompasses as long as the procedure is open and a year later. We understand that this remains short, that it would have to extend itself to the defence of subsequent proceedings which are linked to the initial condemnation of gender violence, both criminally and in any sphere, as may be a breach of condemnation, threats or harassment, and not to have a period of one year, because unfortunately, at this time, in most cases these problems are not solved. I think these issues are not minor. I think it's a complete disillusionment that doesn't come here today to answer the Justice Counsellor, because we're talking about a judicial procedure and a rule, such as the Free Legal Assistance Regulation, which had to be modified by the corresponding councillor. And we're here seeing how important the Justice Counsellor is, what I ask the question. As you are not, I ask you to transfer it to him, which is: do you think such regulatory changes are necessary in these areas?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u265	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. You have the floor to Mrs. Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u266	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'll remind your lordship that the Government is unique, that it's a collective body and that, of course, we act under a voice unit. Let's see if I, as a member of the board, are able to answer a legal matter to you. First of all, if I would like to thank and express the latest consensus reached in Parliament on gender-based violence, in particular in April, for the self-recognition framework that recognizes vicar violence as gender-based violence, and also in yesterday's plenary session to recognize the violence exercised through new technologies and digital spaces as gender-based violence. I think this is the way, no doubt, to follow. You ask yourself whether it is necessary to implement more measures to ensure the protection and access to justice of victims of gender-based violence. Of course, it is always necessary to continue to deepen and complete the measures. But you ask, in particular, two questions. The first says it's regulated in some way that they can't be convicted of firm conviction for a crime of gender-based violence in special gender-based violence shifts. This is already regulated; there is nothing but regular because it is already regulated. The General Statute of Spanish Law provides -- or requires as a requirement -- in Article 13, precisely, that there be no criminal record that prevents the exercise of counsel. And also Article 19 of the same rule says that the status of a college is immediately lost due to this firm conviction. The statute itself, in the field of discipline, qualifies as very serious the conviction of a college member by firm sentence to severe penalties, as would the case of those we are talking about, and in these alleged, precisely, disciplinary punishment is the expulsion of the College. I think you're talking about monitoring about these kinds of conditions, which is a different matter than it's regulated. So the question is regulated and the watch corresponds to the schools, not to the Galician board, neither to the Vice President nor to the Directorate-General for Justice. Given what, in this context, we are formally addressing both the Galician Council and the newly created State Council of Free Legal Assistance -- which was created in March of 2021; in particular, that it knows that the Free State Council of Legal Assistance will have the constitutive session on the next 30 June -- which will deal with this issue on its agenda, in response to this request. If I tell you that competition doesn't correspond, as you say, to the Council in Galicia. The Advisory Council, which already provides for the Free Justice Regulation, is limited to purely administrative, service organization and free legal assistance to schools. So nothing has to do with what you think. With regard to the second question, I tell you that this issue is no longer applicable right now; it was working on this issue in the course of the year, before the reform of 2013, but since the reform of 2013 there is no longer any need for that accreditation of insufficient resources. There is a single file and therefore the single defence during all proceedings; with which the question is also resolved. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u267	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u268	Thank you, President. Counselor, I do not doubt your ability, nor much less, what I do question is your competence. Look, I'm going to tell you that, besides, you haven't been well informed either, because you're talking about criminal background that you're incapacitating for the exercise of counsel, and those would be those criminal history related to the exercise of the profession, but here we're talking about criminal history because of gender violence, that they're not disabled for the exercise of the profession, because they're not related to it. You were also talking about serious crimes that hinder the exercise of counsel, and I'm also talking to you about bullies who have convictions for minor crimes, which are also abusive. You say this is not the responsibility of the Council. Article 11 of the Free Legal Assistance Regulation states that the purpose of the Free Legal Assistance Advisory Board is to propose the regulatory amendments and the Director-General chairing this advisory committee. So, of course, it's competition, because it's an autonomous competition that is regulated in this regulation. As I see that there is not a lot of will, from the Socialist Group we announce that we will bring a LNP in this sense, because we believe that these are not minor issues, we believe it is very important that it has to be obliged to comply and we believe, in addition, that it is not something that has happened to me suddenly to say one morning, but there are cases -- and I can tell them and my fingers don't reach me -- in Galicia of women who had to go back because they found that the lawyer who was appointed had convictions for gender violence. Then, in relation to the unit of action, it's not true either. It happens on a daily basis that when there are breakbacks of conviction, which is in very high cases, you have to appoint a new lawyer, and the victim has to tell his story completely from the beginning. I think, if we don't regulate that, we're failing women, because we can't afford a single life lost any more without everyone and we all have in our hands the task of building a world that's fair and in which we live only insecure and in fear of the culprits. Violence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u269	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u270	Thank you, President. Look, from his own exposure, it turns out he hasn't studied the subject. You're talking about cases you've heard. The cases you've heard are, precisely, the ones I'm making you manifest; these are cases where surveillance by the College of Lawyers is lacking. [[Murmurs.]] One thing is the regulation of the assumption that it is regulated and another very different question is that the College has to watch not only at the moment when it comes to access by the lawyer, but at the moment or during the entire professional life of the lawyer. This is the question I tell you that it is relevant and that, of course, we are going to move. There is no need to make any policy changes and therefore nothing has to say in this regard to the Council in Galicia. Anyway, if I'd like to talk about things that I think are my competition. At the moment, I believe that equality and the fight against gender-based violence are the responsibility of the Employment and Equality Council. So, if I want to talk about the agreement or the partnership agreement that we are going to sign with the Vice-Presidentship first, precisely to strengthen free legal assistance in cases where there has not been so far, as is supposed to be the victims of sexual violence. We will also deepen this agreement and expand the specialized training for lawyers and prosecutors. With this measure we intend to benefit 90 women and 150 professionals. It's EUR 390,000 this year since this council precisely to deepen the specialization and free legal assistance of victims. We continue with the agreements with the Official College of Psychology and the Galician Social Work College to maintain that specialized and permanent social psychological watch shift for victims and for children and for the agreements with the Federation of Associations of Supreme Citizens of Galicia, very important for the service of interpreters in sign language since the time of the submission of the complaint. Since 2015 we have signed the cooperation agreement with the Ministry of the Interior to integrate the Protection Order Coordination Point with the comprehensive monitoring system in cases of gender violence. This, what's that supposed to mean? That since the Employment and Equality Council we have access to this point of coordination of protection orders, which, therefore, we are following them up and that we are conducting the necessary management to facilitate victims access to all existing resources to provide them with a comprehensive framework for protection. From the moment you receive at that point of coordination, either the order of protection or the precautionary measure in question, if you start a direct contact with the person you would benefit, you will be informed of the procedure to be followed, of the resources you have, etc. We have 1,131 files last year. If I would like to remind you that Galicia is one of the autonomous pioneering communities in the execution of the Covenant on Gender Violence, the only one who had and has regular economic benefits for the victims. Therefore, if I believe that there is any will, of course, from this government to carry out comprehensive and transversal acts of protection and promotion of access to justice for victims of gender-based violence and all the services and public resources that we have at our disposal for victims of gender-based violence in Galicia. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u271	Thank you very much. Question from Iria Carreira Pazos, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the assessment made by the Galician Board of Compliance with Law 2/2014 and the functioning of the Galician Observatory against Discrimination by Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u272	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Carreira Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u273	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. It's been a hundred and twenty years since Marcela and Elisa got married in the Coruña, it's been over half a century since trans women, drag queen women, gays and lesbians opposed themselves to a society that criminalized them, who hated them, and started revolts, Stonewall's revolts, against the last police raid they endured, constituting what we can consider today's First Day of Pride. It's been three decades since WHO removed homosexuals the category of patients and it's only been three years since it removed trans people. We have after us decades of fighting the LGBT collective to conquer our rights; rights that must protect and continue to demand because we are seeing it these days in Hungary: "LGBTphobia continues to live, is encouraged by the extreme -- and not so extreme -- right, and against it we must continue to fight for freedom." In April 2014, the Law on Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination of LGBT Persons was passed in Galicia. It was a considerable advance, put Galicia in the vanguard, but since then the BNG warned that this text had been there, it had limitations that it would have to solve, like, for example, the lack of a chapter of LGBTphobic aggression sanctions. Seven years have passed since the adoption of this law and, beyond those shortcomings, which have already been reported at that time, what we were able to verify is that during this time the law remained in the paper; it went to get some news from time to time, it was worth setting up the Observatory against Discrimination by Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, and little more; Observatory of what was approved of its creation in 2018 -- four years after the passing of the law -- which was established in 2019 -- five years after the law -- and that even for the coming month will have the meeting to approve its regulation of operation. The question is, are they planning to run this Observatory or are they going to keep it as a ghost? And it is that the Observatory is one of the few measures envisaged in the law that have come to develop. For then, in the legislative body, we are talking, for example, about carrying out studies in the field of work, the development of protocols in the field of business and labour relations, continuing and compulsory training for health workers, etc. What is today about these measures? We're also talking about sex education campaigns for the prevention of STIs that are respectful and inclusive, and we're still in a yellow plan to fight HIV and other STIs that continues to stigmatize a part of the LGBT collective very concretely, which has already affected the People's Valuer by 2015. There's a single article that talks about trans people, and these days we see how different organizations are denouncing transit situations within Sergas. What assessment does the Government make of the observance of this law?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u274	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u275	And add: how will they fulfill what is missing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u276	Thank you very much. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u277	Thank you, President. I think the German Government has for years, since the adoption of that law that you refer to in 2014, showing its involvement in the fight against discrimination by sexual orientation and gender identity. And for this purpose of moving forward more and more in this field, we are working carefully with the associations, organizations and collective LGTBI of Galicia, with all those who have legitimate interests in the fight against this discrimination because of sexual orientation or gender identity. If we're working on the development of the Galician Observatory against Discrimination by Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity. It's not a ghost organ, it's working, what happens is that obviously, during the pandemic it hasn't met, but if it's called -- as you just said --. And during this time -- during this year -- we've been working with the associations, and its operating regulation is being drawn up; in particular, a specific procedure for the processing of complaints in this area. We're also working to incorporate most -- or how much more participation, say -- of the entities that make up this collective. In particular, we have already succeeded in the months of April and May in incorporating four new entities. Our goal, therefore, is that this body has the highest number of participations, and during this time we have been in continuous contact with all associations, organizations and collectives, also collaborating in the organization of the Ith LGTBI State Meeting, which will be held -- it was postponed by the pandemic -- in 2022. We are also about to sign six collaboration agreements with entities: Arelas, Coruña Anti-Sided Committee, We, ALAS The Coruña, Les Coruña and Pvlse Vigo. And we're providing these agreements with twice as much budget as we had in previous years. In 2017, a specific match appeared for the first time in the general budgets of the Autonomous Community for these associations, organizations and collectives. In particular, in these agreements we seek to promote and subsidise activities to promote and defend the interests of gay, lesbian, transsexual, bisexual and intersexual persons. We try -- and I think this is fundamental -- to give visibility and awareness to this collective, to provide social information, support, counselling on social resources, health resources -- I will speak in response to the activities of the Health Council and the training of staff -- specific training for the staff of public administrations and teaching materials. Ultimately, our goal is to ensure that all people, regardless of their sexual orientation and gender identity, can exercise all their rights to absolute freedom in the autonomous community. And if I can really tell you that since the adoption of the law we have been working on this issue and that we are betting on policies and initiatives that promote a freer and more equal society in this regard. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u278	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Carreira Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u279	First of all, Mrs Lorenzana, let me clarify that the pandemic can say that it affected 2020-2021, and the law was adopted in 2014. Allow me also the mistrust and fear of these good intentions, when today we rule in Galicia the political party which first voted against the equal marriage and which then brought it before the Constitutional Court, the same as today no doubt about trading with the rights of the LGBT collective as paid to the ultra-right by the Government covenant, as we are seeing in Madrid. [[Applause]] Let me be suspicious when, by not closing down the centers Love you, what they have done has been, since 2010, drowning them in a host of new skills, leaving them overwhelmed, with staff and insufficient resources, and when they decided to transfer the LGBT group's advisory function to the CIM, as if they had not had enough work or even different functions. With the support of these measures, allow me to be suspicious. And when we talk about LGBT collective rights so abstractly, there might be someone who might be tempted to limit them to what they put up a little banner with the colors of the old bow this month and a little more. But no, when we talk about the rights of the LGBT group, we talk about the collective of the trans-persons, who continue to suffer from astronomical unemployment rates, which sometimes exceeds 80%; we talk about school harassment and bullying in the teaching centres and outside of them, which unfortunately may come to suicide cases -- and in this country we know cases--; we talk about trans-persons who are asked to buy ITS in Sergas, sometimes even without informing them -- which would already come into competition with other rights -- because it is assumed that, because they are trans-persons, they are already at risk of suffering ITS, as if these diseases depended on their gender identity, rather than on safe or unsafe sexual practices that they did; and we talk about what we just went through a confinement that forced many people to return to their homes, where, on occasions, they don't accept their gender identity, and they didn't feel like, and they didn't get back in. The rights of the collective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u280	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u281	...are more than photos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u282	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u283	Thank you, President. As I said before, if I want to assure you that the Government of Greece is making efforts, and is doing so cross-sectionally, and I want to take into account the performance or programming of the current Health Council of this Law 2/2014, which is being carried out primarily in the field of transsexual persons and transsexual-related therapies. In 2017 we created the Centralized Unit of Care for Transsexuality in Galicia, which is coordinated by the CHUS Endocrinology Service and which offers transsexual children endocrine attention, attention to mental health unit and attention to surgical intervention. It should be noted that all this work is being developed in close collaboration -- as I said before -- with entities representing this collective in order to be able to meet their demands directly and give an effective response to the real needs of their partners and associates. We are also strengthening the training of health personnel in this regard. We are strengthening training regarding attention to sexual diversity and instruction on the functioning of the unit. In order to develop this action, training courses for health professionals provide, on the one hand, a conceptual theoretical framework on sexual diversity, promoting respect for sexual diversity in care settings, and on the other hand, they also give knowledge of the protocols to be followed and the existing resources in the field. As for these training courses, we are conducting one now, in June, and another will take place in the coming months of September and October; and, given the important demand that exists, we will continue next year with their organization. So -- and to finish --, I think the Greek Government is working from multiple areas to achieve a society free of prejudice, where the rights of all people are respected. Galicia was the first community to have a law in this area in 2014, which consolidates -- and this is relevant -- the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. And this law is accompanied by real measures of support, of strengthening the entities and the people who are engaged in the struggle against this type of discrimination, because we understand that we must continue to make progress in the achievements for this collective, and because we understand that the achievements for this collective are achievements for the whole of Galician citizenship, because they will make Galicia and society a society of course freer and more egalitarian. For my part, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u284	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the last of the questions. Question by Da María Encarnación Amigo Díaz and six other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the evaluation by the Galician Union of the different treatment that the Government of Spain gives to the reform of the Balearic Public Health Act and the reform of the Galician Health Act
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u285	To put the question you have the floor Mr. Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, as you well know, on 23 February we approved in this House Law 8/2021 of reform of the Health Act, to introduce a series of instruments which, in the absence of state legislation, facilitated the management of the pandemic by the Union. During that debate we heard things very appropriate for the date, but inappropriate for this Parliament, as the law introduced Bolivarian drifts or reflected the authoritarian tendency of the People's Party. Hence our surprise when we read -- published on May 8th -- in the Official Bulletin of the Balearic Islands a decree -- not a law; that is, it was passed directly by the Government without any parliamentary procedure -- also reform of the Balearic Health Act and also to introduce measures aimed at combating the pandemic. And in the end, despite the fact that the Government of Spain tried to resort to the law for six reasons, it only resorted to an article, which is 38.2. I took the trouble, given the evident similarity that there are between the two standards -- the whale autonomy and the Welsh autonomy, being the posterior whale in several months to the Greek -- to compare article 38.2, which is being object of resource of unconstitutionality and which, in addition to being the Government who urges it, has paralysed the application of that article. I took the two articles and I applied you a program of those on your own network, specifically this is called Copy list, and I passed the text comparator of the article that you're looking for by the Government of Spain regarding ours. The result this program gives us is the following. [[Mr. Puy Fraga shows a document.]] It says that 84.8% is copied, that 76.6% is identical, that 6% are minor changes, and the rest are related meanings. And if you read the control measures here that they said the People's Government had a Bolivarian drift, because you see that in Balearics, too, and it seems that they took that path. For example, where a law says: "Among the measures there may be measures of control of the sick when proceeding, such as home isolation, hospitalization in hospital and isolation and detention in another place suitable for that purpose", to another law or which says: "...measures of control of the sick". Instead of "when out" it is "when appropriate", and everything else follows the same, such as "insulation in the home, hospitalization in the hospital center or isolation or hospitalization in another place suitable for this purpose". And so on. These 880-word articles have 749 identical, and the ones that vary are small like this one. The 98 words are slight variations and 19 identical paragraphs. And the case is that Galicia has suspended the law by the socialist and Balearic resort, no. So I'd like to know how much this joint government values.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u288	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Puy. First of all, I would like to thank the People's Group for being the only group interested in this situation. A situation that is not an aggravating to the Greek Government... but that... [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u289	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u290	...it is a situation that is an aggravation to the legitimacy of this Parliament itself. The central government considers that this Parliament has less legitimacy than the Balearic Parliament, which can literally approve the same text without being the subject of any kind of appeal, and this seems perfect to the Greek socialists. And for the nationalists, who say they defend Galician sovereignty, this aggravation deserves nothing more than an astronist and very revealing silence. Curious self-government defense! [[Laughter]] By answering the question about the evaluation made by the Board of First Nations of this different treatment that receives the two legal texts and gives us the reason, it must be said that it has three fronts: first, it gives us the reason that it was necessary for the legal realization to manage the pandemic -- that was already told by the State Council, the Supreme Court, the Government itself, and now the Socialist Government, the Balearic Government, formed by Socialists, Podemos and Balearic Nationalists -- In the statement of reasons since the Balearic Law decree it says: "The imminent completion of this exceptional legal regime..." -- referring to the state of alarm -- "...it is advisable to introduce in our legislation more concrete measures of administrative intervention which can be taken in pandemic situations to ensure the control of contagions, and it is also necessary and urgent to define the procedure to be followed to adopt them." This is what the PSdeg called "authoritarian derive." Second. It gives us the reason why, in the absence of a reform of organic legislation, autonomous communities must be able to develop it. What socialists denied here is what socialists just did in Balearic Islands. And third. It gives us the reason when we said that the reasons for the appeal that the Government of Spain presented to the Greek law were grounds exclusively partisan. It is more than demonstrated when, before the same text, but with the signature of a socialist president, the Central Government does not resort. We must remember that the Central Government called for an urgent ruling from the Council of State; the Council of State told it not to be so urgent. And he asked for it only eighteen days after our law came into force. Now this same text -- the whale -- takes more than a month and a half to live in Balearics, without the Central Government having made a single move. It's the same text, but now there's no urgency. What's the result? That Balearics, for having a socialist government, is in control of their legislation to manage the pandemic, and Galicia, for not having a socialist government, is suspended. An example of partisan use of the institutions that enthusiast the PSdeG and seems to count on the tacit support of the BNG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u291	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u292	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, thank you for your answer. I don't share the whole answer, because you're talking about partisan use. Well, in politics, logically, each one, as a party soldier, tries to help his own, but this is not partyism, that's worse, that's sectarianism. It is not to be accepted that the same legal rule that leads the opposition party in Galicia, the Socialist Party, to say that we have an authoritarian drift, is subscribed by another socialist government, and that the Government of Spain, in front of the first, reacts by suspending it with a resort of unconstitutionality, without convening the way of dialogue of the Bilateral Commission -- which is meeting because Galicia requested it, and which does not carry out its own suspension of the application of the law -- while another socialist government has applied it. [[Applause]] This morning we had a debate on another issue -- in which the Socialist Government does not respect the exercise of self-government -- where we distinguished precisely between the exercise of self-government -- in which we should have discrepancies, because each one thinks how the powers should be exercised -- and the defence of competences. Obviously, when a government in Spain passes a law that is passed in a chamber and the same law in another chamber is not resorted to, that government is serving sectarianly the prerogatives given it by the Constitution. And this is deplorable. I think it should make us all reflect, especially those who are not convinced of this action by the Government of Spain and who are still accused of confronting us above. In any case, Counsellor, the important thing is to know also what the Government intends to do in the face of this situation and what actions it intends to make its government, our Government of Galicia, in the face of this sectarian and differential treatment when a law is passed in Galicia and when it is approved in an autonomous community that runs the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u294	Thank you very much. In fact, the Galician Union will not be left with cross arms. This very morning we sent a letter -- this one I have here before -- signed by the vice president first and I, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Iceta, calling for the withdrawal of the appeal, and therefore the suspension, of this article of the Greek law. [[Mr. Health Counsellor, García Comesaña, shows the letter.]] Right now, I have just finished a meeting of the International Council where I will reiterate to the Minister of Health and to Minister Iceta this request for the cessation of the appeal and its withdrawal. The Socialist Party, by copying the law of Galicia into a ruling community, assumed implicitly not only that this text is constitutionally valid, but that it is also correct and appropriate. So if you don't do it with respect to Galician self-government, which we know you don't, we advocate that you do it to maintain a minimum of coherence from the central government. The coherence of the Socialist Group has been totally undone since the moment a government of its own party not only copies the law they voted against, but even copies literal paragraphs, as you could well appreciate in that comparison that I have been tempted to do as well. Those same paragraphs were issued to suppress them because they maintain that they were even dangerous. And here a socialist deputy even joked with an expression: "...even though there is still scientific uncertainty", which is contained in our law and which, by the way, also appears in the Public Health Act of 2011, which had been approved by a socialist government. This Member has introduced our law to delete this sentence; a phrase which, curiously, appears in the whale law. The leader of the Greek socialists said in this very plenary that the Greek law was a democratic retreat and that it violated fundamental rights, and now copies it to his colleagues. They came to say that the Board was celebrating the appeal because their interest in the law was "to confront." But if this law has been promoted, precisely, because the central government has made no other alternative! The premise was already ridiculous, but now even more. What interest could the Government have in confronting this law? Honestly, it seems that the central government is trying to test the limit of incoherence that the PSdEG can have to continue to defend its positions. We ask him to give up. We know that there is no such limit, they can be calm in the PSdeG. But the Greek Government if it has a limit and the Greek citizenship also has a limit, and they don't take their hair. It is unacceptable for the Socialist Government to continue to maintain one more resort against a law that socialists themselves copy where they govern. Let them take it off now and save us this jug. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-06-23-DSPG042.u295	Thank you very much, Counselor. Solved the agenda points, we finished the session.
