ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. So we go into the agenda points. The first point is the legislative text. Debate taken into account the Proposal for a Law, to present before the Congress of Deputies, the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to ensure that Galicia's role as an electric power producer reverts to its social and economic development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u2	For the presentation of the bill you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego your spokeswoman's spokesman Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u3	Good morning, ladies. On 14 September 2020 the price of light was EUR 43 per megawatt/hour. Today, September 14, 2021, the price is 153.43 euros. The light receipt rose by 353 percent, on a price escalation that no one understands and that we can only qualify by name: a legalized scam. A scam with millionaire benefits for the electrical lobby and ruinous bills for families, for small and medium-sized businesses, for self-employed and self-employed. And all this in the midst of an unprecedented crisis, where we are beginning to raise our heads. The swindle of light puts thousands of jobs at risk, affects family economies which in many cases are already precarious and also conditions the hours of thousands of Greeks and Greeks, who make genuine juggles in a desperate attempt to be able to face an invoice of light that casts the democratic scandal. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of democracy is this that allows a handful of multinationals to speculate up to satiety at the price of a basic asset? What kind of democracy is this? [[Applause]] A price, by the way, of the most expensive in Europe in a Galician where the wages of the working class and the pensions of our seniors are below average. We are facing a situation of social emergency that even directly affects people's health. And that's what I'm saying isn't any kind of exaggeration, that's literal. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to see many of the witnesses who have been published in the media. They can, for example, take El Progresso from June 15, where we could read Paulino's statements, a neighbor of Respect, with a kidney failure, which, like many of these people, compels them to connect daily to a haemodialysis machine. I said this neighbor: I came up at 8:00 or 9:00 in the morning, had a calm breakfast and connected and finished at noon. Now I get up at 6:00 to connect and be able to finish before 10:00. I'd rather do it than face unpaid receipts. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible for a person to be forced to get up at 6:00 in the morning to maintain his health, sacrificing sleep and rest, unique and exclusively to prevent the bill of light from being fired because, if not, he couldn't pay? How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a regulatory framework that puts the profits of electricians above people's health? [[Applause]] I insist: this is not a debate whatsoever; we are in a situation of social emergency; we are also in a debate on the democratic quality of the Spanish State, and that is why we bring this debate to the Greek Parliament. But there's also today a picture that leaves us this hemicycle and that's all a symbol, and we see all the blue chairs of the Government of the Missing People's Party. We're debating a subject that worries and occupies most of the Greeks and the Greeks, that takes away many sleep and many because they can't pay the bill of light, and here we see the absenteeism of the People's Party Government. A whole symbol that they're not even expected. [[Applause]] Galicia is rich in electricity but it does not benefit from that wealth. On the contrary, families and pemmes pay more and more for the light. We see it as a country rich in electricity, which continues to export almost thirty percent of the electricity produced, has 14% of its homes in energy poverty. And all this while we pay environmental and social costs, because it's not free to produce electricity. To produce electricity means to have this country full of cheers, it involves more than four thousand air carriers in one hundred six municipalities and, if all this had been little, it now also involves a predatory wind boom, which is a bomb for the rural environment and which is made according to the electricians, who want to continue to polish our country, and that the governments of the People's Party and also the Central Government allow it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The bill of light rises every year, and we're in the last few months seeing in addition to how every day marks a historic maxim. And this is happening with PP governments and also with PSOE governments. And there's an explanation why all this is going on. For this happens thanks to that perverse game of turning doors and a system made up of electricity, which have multi-millionaire benefits at the expense of people and exploit our natural resources. And that's where we have the data for the year 2020. In the middle of the pandemic, the benefits of electricity are a scandal: Naturgy, 490 million euros of benefits; Endesa, 1,394 million euros of benefit; Iberdrola, 3,610 million euros of benefits. Astronomic gains that pay our elders with their pensions, the working class with their wages and all of us through taxes. [[Applause]] But we see that this electric lobby is insatiable. Moreover, as you know you enjoy a regulation made in accordance with your interests, which gives you almost impunity, you feel strong. And how they feel strong and unpunished even they dare, on average, price escalating, to continue to win with weariness, emptying the country's coronations with the complicity of the Central Government and the board of Galicia, cashing and causing an environmental problem without any government preventing it from happening to them. [[Applause]] And what is Mr Feijóo's response -- absent -- to the voracity of these multinationals? First, let them do it. And secondly, I wanted to cover up that shame with a fine of 25,000 euros, which I think gave them a laugh in Iberdrola when they saw the penalty count they could impose on them. Because they earn more in one day waving that absolutely ridiculous penalty, which, by the way, is ridiculous because the Government of the People's Party has changed the law to bring the sanctions down to this kind of fact. Of course they rule for the electricians! [[Applause]] The president of Iberdrola, Mr. Ignacio Sánchez Galán, whom Mr. Feijóo embraces instead of defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, earns more than twenty-five thousand euros in one day. But what kind of tasteless joke is this one they're trying to cover up their complicity with the electricians? This is the contribution of the President of the Union; a contribution which in itself is a scandal, because we have seen Mr. Feijóo, who makes daily statements on a multitude of issues, does not move a finger to avoid this situation. Nothing, except to throw balloons out and look for someone to take responsibility for, and veto a proposal that is viable and that could undermine the bill of light as is the Greek electric fare. It's been a 12-year veto, twelve years preventing families and businesses from falling light through a fair, realistic and social measure. And the reason he said it himself in this parliament: in Madrid it would not be understood. Well, I think what people don't understand is that they can't have a cheaper light bill in a Galician that's rich in electricity. What you don't understand is that we have our mountains full of mills, our rivers full of empty cheers for the country. What they don't understand is why they refuse to pay less for the light by vetoing the electricity tariff proposed by BNG. And, by the way -- I say it again in this chamber -- is that we don't invent anything: in the countries around us there are cheaper differentiated rates. Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom, all have different rates and lower prices for producing areas, because that's one reason, it's a matter of common sense and logic. And the question we ask is, why not in Galicia? The only reason is that electrics send more than governments. That's why they have the payroll to ex-presidents, ex-ministers and ex-administrations through the rotating doors. Because, really, does anyone think they pay Felipe González, Aznar or ex-ministries for being specialists in the electrical system? No, no. They pay those wages so that when they rule, they rule in accordance with their interests. And it's also explained by political centralism, which makes the Greek energy put itself to the service of Madrid's interests. So in a context of enormous social concern about the scam of light, the BNG today brings to this parliament a bill to curtail the price of light and ultimately achieve that an electrical wealth that our country has is serving families, businesses and economic development and job creation in Galicia. And I hope that today, in view of everything that's going on around this issue, we can count on the support of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, because this bill is not against anyone, but it's in favour of Galicia and for the Greeks and the Greeks. Because this bill has a very clear objective, which is that families and businesses receive some of the benefits that they now end up increasing the results account of the electric lobby. That all-powerful electric lobby that's swindling to the Greeks and to the Greeks at the price of light, and where since democratic institutions we have to plant a face and say, "That's enough of this scam!" We're going to stop that all-powerful lobby of Naturgy, Endesa and Iberdrola. That is why the law which brings the BNG today to this Parliament and to which we call for the support of all Members and all Members. This proposal has as its essential element something so basic and as fair as that Galician electric wealth benefits the Greeks and the Greeks. And that happens to achieve two objectives: firstly, to reduce the price of light because it's a basic good of first necessity and you can't afford the electricians to speculate with it, and, secondly, to compensate for Galicia's producer role. It cannot be that we assume environmental costs and social costs, and that what we receive in return is a scam in the form of billing of light. And all of you have on your table the text of this bill, but I would like to highlight some of the initiatives that we raise in this bill to get a fairer light tariff: First of all, we have to end these so-called "descending benefits from heaven." You have to put an end to a guy, who are those puddles where any form of electricity production has the same price when he enters the pool as the price of the most expensive, even if it's much cheaper to produce it. This, if I may, is as if I'm leaving this parliament today, I'm going to go to the fish shop, buy a garden, buy a sardine, I'm going to see it, and I'm getting all the sense of it. What we see as a real barbarity is what's happening right now with the price of light, and it's legalized in the law of the electric sector. That's why we say it needs to be changed. Secondly, it's important to reduce the taxes we pay on the bill. We have a very high tax burden for a basic and first-needed good like electricity. There are a lot of costs that people pay today, regardless of what their purchasing power is, because they're on the bill of light, which really should be in the general budgets of the state. For example, nuclear moratorium, extrapensular costs, or eliminate once and for all this theme recognized by Aznar from the "tariff deficit." Third, the defense of a Greek electric tariff. And here is something very simple that has legal fit, and that's that we lower the bill fees in the producer areas. It's a question of justice and common sense that -- I insist -- it's very common in countries around us, and that in addition to the Greeks and the Greeks we have the right to benefit from the electricity in this country. Fourthly, we bet on a stable and competitive industrial tariff. We have thousands of jobs at risk for the price of electricity, and it's obvious that neither the PP governments nor the PSOE governments are giving a solution to the electro-intensive industries in our country. It's a joke that we have one job at risk for electricity prices in a Galician that produces electricity and that, of course, should go back to the country. So what we say is: stable and competitive industrial tariff, but demanding companies a commitment to create jobs, and not only do they receive state funds without any kind of compensation in return. And last of all, we believe that there is a need for more skills in energy matters. We don't want the electricity or Madrid to decide on. That's why we bet on greater capacity in this area, because it will also allow planning. Finally -- and finished, president -- these are some of the measures to disrupt the bill of light and end up with a scam that allows the electricians to win more and more, and decide and govern above what is decided on in the ministers' councils without going through the polls. And we believe that if Francisco Reynés, Juan Sánchez Calero or Ignacio Sánchez Galán wants to sit on the board of ministers or the board of ministers, what they have to do is present themselves to the elections. I hope that the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo will give green light to the consideration of this proposed law of the BNG and that they will prove for once that they are on Galicia's side and not on the side of the multinationals of energy. This parliament must give you a solution to a problem that most of this country feels, that affects families, businesses and self-government, and that is an individual scam but also a collective scam for a Galician who has the right to their electrical wealth to serve for something more than for multinationals to keep winning and winning, while people can't stop heating or we have thousands of jobs at risk. The script needs to be changed. And this is exactly what we want with this bill. I hope I can achieve the unanimity of this camera. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of the other parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín Seco García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Pontón, not one word about yesterday's measures, with historical reductions in taxes and other structural measures. It's noticed that you came here alone and exclusively to advertise your idea. BNG brings a bill that could well be presented at the Congress of Deputies. But I have the feeling that in the BNG they shouldn't have allies after the visa yesterday when they added their efforts to Vox's to try to take over the draft law on the creation of the national support fund of the electrical system. A structural measure to undermine one of the three parts that are part of the electrical bill, the so-called "costs of the system", which together with the proposal to reduce CO2 revenue, can lead to a fifteen percent loss in the electrical bill. The other two parts of the bill are wholesale prices -- shot across Europe, not only in Spain -- with similar prices in France or Portugal; higher in Germany, Italy or Belgium, and much higher in the United Kingdom. And thirdly, the taxes on which this government has acted and will continue to act to make reality what the President of the Government promised, who said that we would end the year paying the same as it had been paid in 2018, discounting the IPC. And all that with that barbarity of wholesale market prices on which the Government cannot affect. While the Government of the State is trying to cut the bill of light by removing charges corresponding to cogeneration premiums, renewables and waste, known as "recore", a fund that can substantially reduce the electricity bill by distributing these costs between fuels that do not contribute to fighting climate change, the BNG adds its effort to Vox and tries to block a measure that should walk hastily into the legislative issue. We don't know if BNG is worried about the fare, acting to crush it, or just want a sovereign propaganda exercise to sell the alleged Welsh tariff as a solution to all the evils. Because this way of mixing everything and offering simple solutions to complex problems often has more propaganda than real solutions to problems. The price of electricity is not going to fall significantly by nationalizing companies, Mrs Pontón, or by nationalistic dreams that are intended to make believe that being Galician the tariff will be lower, in a regulated European market, where countries such as Italy or France have huge public companies and prices similar to ours and even higher prices. Yesterday you were asked to lower the VAT tax of electricity to 4%, when this government already did so from 21% to 10%. Because at the BNG they always try to blow and absorb at the same time: they want to nationalize companies and lower taxes, they want to bet on renewables and demand wind moratoriums, they want to make ships for the defense of railway yards but they criticize the budget of the Ministry of Defence. The inconsistencies of the misunderstood solidarity of nationalism: yours is mine, and mine is mine too. In our group, we believe that it is really important to walk together in three aspects: firstly, to continue to focus on the energy transition and respect for the environment if we want to leave our children a place to live, with essential themes such as energy efficiency and self-consumption; secondly, to make structural and short-term changes so that the tariff that reaches our homes is balanced and does not become a luxury product, making businesses in the sector not have insulting benefits while consumers have problems paying their bills, and thirdly, to act against energy poverty so that no family is left without electricity supply. We would like to be able to come here to debate seriously about the reforms that the system needs, how to implement measures at the autonomous level to promote self-consumption in our country's economic activities, for example, on the gainful farms. But the only objective of these initiatives is to launch a message that the price of light is the product of a policeman from the late-francist Spanish state, or that the People's Party can now give them a solution to the problems of a system that they themselves have launched with a legislation created by them to the liking of the electricians, and that the current government is changing with a change that cannot be achieved in four days. According to many specialist magazines and companies in the electricity sector themselves, in the coming years the cost of electricity in the wholesale market will be lower than in countries such as France and Germany, derived from the measures being carried out by the current government and the wager for renewables. A government that wants to act against the privileges of energy, which is called "descending benefits from the sky", which can assume that more than a billion euros of the benefit of electricity companies will benefit users' bills. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these are not measures that please the electrics and derived from a government sold to the turning doors of the electrics. These are structural measures for people and costing business benefits, both in the future Law on the National Fund for Sustainability of the Electrical System and in the future Law on the Mining of CO2, which will result in a reduction of up to 15% of the electricity bill in domestic and industrial consumers. As I said before, the Government has already started the process of that draft law to share the benefit of CO2 cost among all consumers and thus reduce the bill. For people to understand it: the generation of electricity in power stations that don't emit CO2 is less expensive because they don't have to bear CO2 prices. And despite that, the functioning of the market put in place by the People's Party causes this energy to be paid at the price of the latest technology entering the system, which is usually the gas, which incorporates the price of CO2. That price differential is received by non-stational companies, getting an undeserved benefit that they call it "fall benefit from the sky." With this new rule, this benefit will be reduced and shared among all consumers. A government very committed to electricity, Mrs. Pontón. During all this time of government, measures have also been developed to protect vulnerable consumers. I'd like to know what the People's Party did in the 2009 crisis more than triple the price of electricity without looking at the most vulnerable. Do you remember when the PP Member, Mrs. Fabra, in the face of a cut in the payout for workers in times of crisis, said at the Congress "to fuck off"? That's the PP's concern for the vulnerable. [[Applause]] This crisis government has created the thermal social bond and broadened the electric social bond, as well as extraordinary actions to cushion the impact of the coward, especially on vulnerable consumers: the prohibition of supply cuts, the automatic extension of the electric social bond, the freezing of the maximum prices of butane candy and the rate of last natural gas resource; an extension of the right to the social bonus for self-employed workers who cease their activity or see their invoicing reduced by the covid. [[Applause]] And yesterday the social shield has expanded, and they will also approve a minimum supply vital to provide additional protection to vulnerable consumers. Yesterday, the Government announced measures to combat the indecent rise from costs on the wholesale market and on which the Government cannot act, by intervening on the other two parts of the invoice: the tax, by extending the abolition of the tax to the electricity generation from 7%, and the reduction of VAT from 21 % to 10 %, as well as the new tax measure which lowers the special tax on electricity to the minimum allowed by the European Union, from 5.1 % to 0.5 %. This is a historical tax discount. [[Applause]] These measures have been announced that the Government plans, apart from what we said about the fallen benefits of the sky, to bring about the extraordinary benefits that energy companies have and to redirect it to consumers by also raising the prices of gas. The government will temporarily reduce the payout to non-station power stations -- nuclear and hydroelectric -- thanks to the impact of non-supported gas costs. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, leave sovereign mantras. The first is that Galicia is energy surplus. They know it's not true what they say. This happens only in part of the power of the system, the power of the system. Certainly, we've produced about thirty percent more electricity than we consume, but we're not surpluses in all energy matter. We produced 2,300 tonnes equivalent of primary energy oil from Galicia, but we imported 9,400 tons of primary energy. The amount of energy loses 2,200 tonnes and remains equivalent to 9,950 tonnes for use, from which we consume in Galicia 6,200 tons, and expose 3,700 tons. I mean, BNG gentlemen, in the case of an electrification of the economy to which we walk with the energy transition, the 2,350 tons that we produce in Galicia in our own primary energy do not give to the 6,200 tons that we consume. This is just a third of what is consumed. Secondly, there is no Basque electric tariff, there is a rate 6.2, which may also apply to Soria or Badaxoz, which may be good for a part of the Basque productive tissue. And finally, the mantra that we're being harmed by the current pest system. Of course, it could be studied that the producer communities had a reduction in the rates of transport. We do not deny that this measure can be studied. This is what you call "Glebian electric charge," but you might call it "Lionsian castle" or "Catalan." But at the same time that these transport charges might be lower, what if someone said distribution costs would also be revised? With a territory of about 30,000 square kilometers, 300 municipalities and more than 30,000 individual population entities that account for about five percent of the entire state, with distribution infrastructures that are more than twenty percent more expensive than elsewhere in Spain by our own orography. Do the calculation, gentlemen of the BNG, add up and stay, and maybe Galicia doesn't stand so badly in the balance we paid in fees and the costs that our electrical system supports. I'm telling you, the cost you bear is higher. Ladies and gentlemen, they contribute and add to structural measures that can improve an electrical system that must be more fair and more environmentally friendly. Think more about the people and less about the territories. In the end, people are people with the needs of an accessible energy in Teruel while in Ourense. And on that line you are working on the current government, and you have the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u6	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Marta Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pontón, we share with you the concern about the high price of light that we are bearing all Spanish consumers since the beginning of 2021. What we no longer share with you is your solutions. In the first weeks of the year, ladies and gentlemen, in a cold wave, the light rose above 100 euros/megavatio/hour. But in September it's already hitting all records: more than 150 euros, and even 170 euros in a few hours. The record government, Mr. Seco; the record government at the price of electricity and the record government in the absence of an axil solution that has been embracing all Spanish citizens for nine months, Mr. Seco. And markets in the future -- I don't know what you looked at -- they forecast the price will keep going up. So this is no longer, ladies and gentlemen, a conjunctural situation, it's a structural problem. That's why he needs structural power system reform solutions, not a temporary patch as the Central Government has done, or announcements that will be effective in several years. After this climb, ladies and gentlemen, there are the bad conditions and consequences for millions of domestic, pes and autonomous consumers, who in a moment of crisis like this, besides thinking about how to keep their jobs and be very careful not to get infected with the vault, they have to live overwhelmed by a bill of light that will soon rise to about thirty-five percent. When those who ruled in Madrid were others, their speeches on energy poverty, Mrs. Pontón, reached another level. Today it doesn't seem to exist, when the data is that in 2020 it rose by three percent more than in 2019. By the way, Galician data -- I beg you to look at the INE -- 9.8%, under the Spanish average, Mrs. Pontón. Acquire the data. In the middle of this escalation, Mr. Sánchez's government has implemented the tranche tariff, which encourages not to sleep to put the washing machine or ironing, when now the price at those hours is thirty-five percent higher. A whole disincentive of this government that is proclaimed today unresponsible, demanding the Rajoy Government to resign by the rise of eight percent of the price of light, when the light now rises about two hundred percent. A government that has implanted a temporary patch that has been up for nine months, raising the price of light and giving no response of any kind; thus unable to achieve an axile solution. A sovereign government that does not accept approaches by the People's Group to lower the light by twenty percent. And a government that lies, blaming Europe, Russia and even Rajoy, after this three years out of government; three years, Mr. Seco, that would give you to modify those laws that you say. Thirty-four laws have changed the law of measures, Mr. Seco. So they had time to put this law in if they wanted to change it and they didn't like it. And what does BNG do? For in the meantime the BNG comes here, today made up of moderately, Mrs. Pontón, with a proposal on the modification of a state law, but which is based on three premises that have the most disruptive DNA of the Galician Nationalist Block: First premise: the Greek fare. When we analyzed this option in a parliamentary commission with ten associates, where everyone except one, who was the proponent, an ex-Deputy member of the Nationalist Block of Wales, all denied it. Only he, and of course he was not based on any economic study, nor on any legal study. The rest of the audience said clearly that it would be bad for Galicia to have a Greek fare. Your Honor, the cost of the Greek electricity system is €900 million. The Greeks paid 700 million euros, Mrs. Pontón. Two hundred million euros would be missing. Thirty percent more to the light would have to pay for your proposal. That's a scam, Mrs. Pontón, and that's a scam for you. Second premise: that energy is managed by a public enterprise, when the public is not synonymous with cheaper. They intend to nationalize companies; again illegal proposals. And the third premise is to blame for the price of light for Mr. Feijóo. BNG spends the summer collecting signatures on the price of light and goes and deliver them to San Caetano. No, Mrs. Pontón, you have to deliver to Moncloa. That's where you're responsible for rising the price of light. [[Applause]] I, as you like photos so much, I also have a picture. If you don't want to look, look at the rest of the Members of the BNG; look at this is the picture. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows the House a photograph.]] The photo, one is Adriana Lastra, with a cross, because it was stopped by Mr. Sánchez's fulminating finger, and the other, with a questioner, who is thinking about his future. This is the photo of the pack: "PSOE and BNG Agreement". On sheet 8, item 5, you proposed to study a Greek tariff. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows the House a document.]] Who is responsible for rising the price of light? Mr. Sánchez, Mrs. Pontón, don't ask us again. And you are accomplices because you support him in Moncloa and here in Galicia there in all places where they rule support their seats; their armchairs, Mrs. Pontón, in municipalities and deputies where they lose, and there they support the PSdEG, just like in the Moncloa. [[Applause]] And the Greeks know. The Greeks know perfectly well, ladies, that the person responsible for the price of light is not Feijóo, is Mr. Sánchez. And they also know that you are accomplices to Mr. Sánchez's support in Madrid and in all the councils and deputies where they rule, Your Honor. I'll tell you the times you need to. They gave the vote to Pedro Sánchez to make him president in return for nothing. So take the firms and instead take them to San Caetano, take them to Moncloa. There's the man in charge, Your Honor. Although you've spent little time talking about the initiative, I'm going to break down the main points: Public enterprise. You're talking about nationalization of companies as they asked yesterday at Congress. Of course, mantra that they share with Podemos, about a public energy company that doesn't support, among other things, because you say you'd have to manage the embassies, which expires within thirty years. With what energy, with the embassies that expire in thirty years? No, no, no, no. Oh, we expropriate companies. Another proposal perfectly legal! Or what, with wind energy? If you demon the renewable energies, you're a negationist, Mrs. Pontón. They're negationists of renewable energy. We have examples of embalming in Aragon, which they have reverted, and the Community of Aragon has us without management and is going to take them back to private concession. We have examples from Italy, with public company and the price of energy above all Europe. We have examples of public merchants, Mrs Colau or Mr Kichi in Cadiz, who charge more expensive light than private traders. Those are the examples. In his permanent confrontation with the autonomic powers, he's now touching on the regulation of the electricity sector and he wants it for Galicia as well. And he asks us to change a law in the electricity sector to change the competition. No, competition is in the Constitution, in Article 149(1).25 and point 22. Read it, Your Honor. It's not in the law of the electric sector, it's in the Constitution. And here's not a competition issue, it's a matter of respecting an autonomous law, and it's going to put the propeller here. It's a matter of respecting an autonomous law, Galicia's sectoral wind plan; an instrument of territorial management, Mrs. Pontón, which has to comply with the Union when it gives authorizations from wind farms at the Greek level, and the state when it gives wind authorizations at the state level, Mrs. Pontón. It's not a matter of competence. You're talking here about the modification of the Marxist market, putting a price on technologies, when you know that's completely illegal. I give you the example: this Marxist market we have is the same in Italy, France, all over Europe. France and Germany, for example, have much cheaper energy prices; 40 euros megavatio/hour cheaper than Spain. You know why? Because France has as its backing for nuclear power, 70%, and Germany, 50% of coal, which it is using today. You've allowed yourself along with the PSdG -- and you're accomplices -- to disconnect the thermals before time, Your Honor. Another error: thermals were disconnected before time. And today the Spanish energy mix and the Greek is conditioned to renewable energy, which is great renewable energy, but we can't store it, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] That's why the Marxist market is not the problem; the problem is the mix, which is now much less diversified than it was and is very conditioned at the top of the gas price. It doesn't happen in Germany and France yes. But you're on the basis of your bill proposition is in your mantra, in your attempt to disconnect Galicia, to put a switch on the Padornelo. He wants the Welsh electric fare. [[Applause]] Obviously Galicia has an excess of energy generation in the annual calculation. And I'm not giving any more data, which has been quite well given by Mr. Seco, but is purely logical. Look, we've disconnected the thermals, 2,000 megawatts. Galicia's energy generation is renewable, we can't store it, we're afraid it needs to be poured into the network whenever it's manufactured. We have nowhere to store it, Your Honor, and in many moments we have to import energy. You, who will come back here, answer me as you would with Alcoa, for example, who consumes as much electricity as all Galicia. How would you do that? I'd be waiting for wind, for water, for no replacement, for no backup. How would it be or support for Alcoa? Be serious, Your Honor. Your demagogy is of a high level, of an extreme level, Mrs. Pontón. Besides, if I couldn't survive only with the energy that we generated, and mostly renewable, it would be wrong for Galicia. I've already said it: 900 million euros costs the Greek electric system; 700 million people pay for taxes to the Greeks, 200 million euros missing, 30% more for the light with their proposal. That's a scam, Mrs. Pontón. The tendency is to go to a bigger market, not to a small market. The tendency is to go to an electricity market in Europe, not to a small German market, Mrs Pontón. When he says he doesn't leave profits in the territory, which is a lie, because the wind cannon has left 200 million euros since it started. And talk to your mayor of Muras, who gets five hundred thousand euros from the wind canon every year. But what is that, aren't they profits in the territory? And the embalms are the same; talk to the mayors about the electrics of IBI and IAE in the municipalities as well. Mrs. Pontón, you're also talking about electrointensives, and you couldn't even work, because just living on renewable energy right now, which we're not able to store, tell me how we'd do it. We also discounted the costs of CO2 compensation that the state gives us. The reality is that you're complicit in that, too, they signed it in the pact, too. Another uncompromising agreement, Your Honor, of that covenant. They disconnected, it's a central government that does the same thing forever: it disconnects the interruptability system and does not trigger a replacement and leaves businesses. You promised a reserve fund and bilateral contracts, you know where they are? Nowhere, nothing, zero. Alcohol zero solutions. And you're an accomplice to that. You spoke here very openly about social protection, because now the banner is to go and put it on the reservoirs, but not to ask for social protection for people. You have abandoned the people, Your Honor. And the People's Party has already presented here two initiatives to reduce the bill at twenty percent the price of light. Measures we will take today afternoon and see what the PSdG does today, which the previous two voted against. Our measures are going to reduce taxation, they are going to transfer regulatory costs that fill the bill to the State budget, not to the National Sustainability Fund, which we are going to see what causes this, Mr Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u9	Let's see what causes that. If it doesn't cause a rise in gasoline, as we all expect, because that's what everyone is forecasting. The measures of this group would reduce the price of light by about 20 percent, and are legal and economically sustainable. Proposals for a serious party. Mrs. Pontón, the Welsh tariff is not maintained, it is not maintained because we are not surpluses every day, and we have to import energy the same as Spain, which had to get out of the gas. Only 50% of the energy produced during this summer was renewable, the rest had to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u11	...importing nuclear energy and gas, Mrs. Pontón. And in addition to his fare in Greece is bad, because it would be a scam, because it would cost the Greeks about thirty percent more for having his fare in Greece.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u12	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u13	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, of course we will not support your bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u15	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u16	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica from the author group of the proposal. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This has to be left second goes. I can see something, too. We have to control here, it's a special system. You must come a little more sheltered at the moment, at least in the first hour of the morning. To see how we can do... is that I can't do anything else, for now, or we'll ruin everything that would be the system so it'll work well all day. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, it's a problem. I can tell. Even I'm cold, I'm not a man who's especially cold, but today I'm cold. But what are we going to do to him? Bad luck!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u17	There are many families who couldn't put this cooling system at this time because they can't afford it. Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u18	Good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u19	And many companies, too, where many other people work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u20	The replica is from Mrs. Pontón, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u21	I think it's a shame that the TVG does not broadcast Parliament's plenary because the Greeks and the Greeks have the right to see that it defends everyone and with what arguments on a topic of utmost relevance and topicality as the scam of the bill of light. A real shame, but it's also an explanation maybe why they don't retransmit themselves. [[Applause]] I have to say, first of all, that I thought I would oppose the opposition because it was a sign of Feijóo's identity, but I see he's creating school. I don't know if he's the best teacher to oppose the opposition. [[Applause]] I say on many occasions that it's very important in politics not to confuse yourself as an adversary. And I regret that the Greeks and the Greeks today did not have in this plenary debate here rigorously, high-level and focused on alternatives to such an important problem, and that we see PP and PSOE more concerned about defending Sánchez and Feijóo than about undermining the bill of light to the Greeks and to the Greeks. I said it at the beginning of this intervention. [[Applause]] [[Cheering in the living room.]] I'll wait because there's a lot of noise, if you don't mind, Mr. President. We'll wait for you to feel it. The women would be grateful if the clothes were not part of the comments on which we are valued in politics, and much more coming from a woman. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to defend something as basic as Galicia benefits from its electrical wealth. And by the way, I think the nationalist mantra is spreading. I'll quote you some statements. I'll start by quoting a well-known Professor of Applied Economics from the University of Coruña, Mr. González Laxe. He recently said in an interview on Spanish National Radio: the price of energy in Galicia should be lower than in the rest of Spain given the role of producer of this community and the negative environmental costs it has incurred for a long time. This is the former president of the board and current Professor of Economics, who seems to have a nationalist mantra as well. And for the lords of the People's Party, I don't know if Mr. Fernández Mañeco is due to the disconnection of Castela and León, because "Fernández Mañeco proposes cheaper energy for production areas." [[Applause]] Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a debate that is serious enough, important enough and relevant enough to prevent the Greeks and the Greeks from being deceived here. The bill of light is a scam legalized by a regulation that actually approved the People's Party, which is now in opposition and suddenly discovers that its law is harmful to the interests of the social majority and proposes to do just the opposite of what it has done. And even, of course, they present such serious measures that they have to come here self-amended because they presented a non-law proposition with three lines, in which nothing was said at all. [[Applause]] And it's true that the Socialist Party doesn't have an absolute majority in Congress. But if there's a majority that would allow you to miss the receipt of light, and there's the hand held by the BNG to do it, and that's where the German Parliament has a responsibility. Because how do they tell us that we can't do anything, or that Mr Feijóo, absent from this debate and absent from the most important issue that concerns thousands of families, can't do anything? Of course you can do something: you can approve this initiative today and propose a debate to the State about what we want a cheaper fare for this country. And he doesn't because he prefers to embrace the interests of the electricians and not to embrace the Welsh and the Welsh. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo leaves the families, businesses and pemes of this country alone and exclusively because he prefers to embrace Mr. Galán, who is no longer casual that the day of his investment had been there to give a hug to Mr. Feijóo -- welcome to this debate! --. It is that Mr. Feijóo defends the interests of the electricians and not the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] I'm sorry for some things that were said here. The first is that we have representatives of the Greeks and the Greeks who come to Parliament to tell us that we are poor in energy matters. Of course we have an energy balance that we know, but we're talking about the electrical balance, which is also the future about what we have to be working on. And we have a very important production capacity, and this is a model debate. And still right now, we, of course, are surpluses in the production of electricity, and we have a lot of capacity to do it. But we want that production to be used to develop Galicia and not to keep the electric multinationals going. That's the model difference. [[Applause]] And, really, we think it would be positive. I encourage Mr. Feijóo to bet on the creation of a public company so that the encouragement that ends his concessions will return to the public and will not continue to create benefits for the private. Because we already have public companies operating in Galicia. And whoever closes us The Bridges is Enel, an Italian public company, which I think is also in the European Union. If it can exist in Italy, why can't it exist in Galicia? [[Applause]] Tell us, ladies. Of course, we could also have an energy storage center in Galicia, but we have to work, of course. In Extremadura they have an agreement, in Euskadi it is already being financed by the Government with its own funds. Where is that energy storage center in Galicia? There isn't because Mr. Feijóo doesn't do his homework, and we proposed they put him on the bridge. [[Applause]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I really think it's bad for Galicia that the People's Party and the Socialist Party put their ideology above the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because if something is fair, it is that this country's electrical wealth is used to create jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u22	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u23	...to prevent Alcoa from closing, which consumes 20% of the electricity in this country, or that we have news like today, where Ferroatlantica has already announced that in Sabon an oven will be paralysed, and that's people on the street. But for you, of course, your interest is to defend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u25	...the board of directors of electricity and not energy as a public good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u27	Energy is a public good...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up. Thank you. Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u29	There are all Members and Members in the House. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a law. We vote. Voting of the Bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to ensure that Galicia's role as an electric power producer reverts to its social and economic development. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u30	We continue with the agenda item, appearances. Accumulation of two occurrences for your joint development Comparison of the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, on his own request, to report on the start of the course 2021-2022 in non-university education in Galicia and the proceedings before the Covid-19 Comparison of the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, at the request of 19 Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego, to explain the cuts in public education and the situation of teachers at the beginning of school 2021-2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u31	The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u32	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Since 2009 I have been playing different roles in education in the current government, both in the parliamentary field and at present in the Italian Government. In these years, I have had the opportunity to observe that there are two ways of doing politics in this chamber: one, that of the opposition groups, where every year they constantly start with attacks on the Board, where words like "decommissioning", "shortcuts", "privateization", "propaganda" are the usual ones. You play with the figures, with the number of teachers, with which you need the teaching of Greek. They also speak on many occasions about the closure of centers, and even about closing classes. Everything you obviously need to wear out -- it's your function -- in this case the German Government. Curiously, you never talk about results, you never talk about progress, you never talk about the improvements that our education has. They never talk about what Galicia does to maintain one of Spain's best education systems, as indicated by the comparative reports of the ministry and PISA. Another way of doing politics is to conduct the Council officials, where we work to ensure the normal activity of an important network of centres, and we are concerned about adapting the number of teachers to the real needs in each school year and in each area, and to manage government resources rigorously and prudently to achieve quality education supported by results. Galicia begins course 2021-2022 with the necessary health security measures and with the necessary resources at this time of pandemic. We're in front of a new moment. We need to be aware that in the course of 2019-2020 the pandemic forced the lessons to be closed in March and that in the course of 2020-2021 measures had to be taken from scratch and started in September with many uncertainties and fears. In course 2021-2022, at present, the third one affected by the pandemic, we have more experience. We know what worked well to achieve almost total presence in the English classes. But, above all, we have a differential element: the vaccination of all people over 12 years of age, which will be completed this week. This doesn't mean much less lowering the guard. We must not fall into either triumphalisms or catastrophes. We're in the middle of a transition course. This is what all autonomous communities and the Ministry of Education say. In this context, it is understood that there is a need to maintain some measures, to simplify others, and with prudence and certainty to advance in ordinary work, in normal work in educational centres. The past course was undoubtedly one of the most complex of our recent history, not only in Galicia, but in Spain and all the countries around us. We all remember moments of uncertainty, doubt, fear, insecurity, which were perfectly understandable to the dimension of the health situation, not forgetting institutional loyalty -- both with the central government and with the rest of the communities --. The Welsh Educational Administration exercised its powers and took action from the health and educational perspective. If we look back, the keys to ensuring the development of the right to education in this exceptional situation were many: the first was to ensure the opening of educational centres throughout the year, to ensure -- and not all autonomous communities can say the same -- the presence of the student; to take the necessary hygienic-sanitary measures, which allowed the educational activity to be developed with maximum security; and to provide the precise material and human resources, as a result of the health emergency situation in which we were living. We managed to face with good results a totally exceptional course -- and I will not tire of repeating it -- thanks, basically, to the great effort -- by the over effort -- of all the members of the educational community and the great response of the student. In the past, with the support of the Educational Committee and the Clinical Committee, a number of organizational issues have been initiated which have generated certainty and worked correctly: contingency plans in the centres, specific protocols for dining, extra-school activities or, among many other issues, ventilation recommendations, which have worked with a high degree of satisfaction. We intensified the cleaning services, reformed the dining room, provided help to AMPA, distributed hygienic masks and other materials between the teacher and the student who needed it most, created the Education Guarantee Fund, expanded operating costs... and finally organized the system for it to work. We also developed and promoted different plans: the Virtual Education Plan, the Vulnerable Student Care Plan and the so-called Virtual Care Teams, the Emotional Welfare Plan, and, already thinking about the current course, we designed the New Pedagogic Architecture Plan and also the Plan Recover. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past, the functioning of the education and health protocol, the ventilation guidelines and the set of measures applied have been effective. The most important thing is that we changed confidence and made schools and institutes safe; we managed to make them part of the solution and not a problem in the fighting situation against the pandemic. In this context, when we say that we have more experience in this course, it's because many of the decisions and measures that we have designed the past course will continue to take place; many of them, in many cases, adapted to the new circumstances of this year, and also to the evolution of the pandemic. The 2020-2021 course -- as I have already said -- was an unprecedented and totally exceptional course, also because its start-up was conditioned -- strongly conditioned -- by last-minute decisions that were adopted at that time at the Sectoral Education Conference at the end of August and that modified the pre-existing scenarios. A year later, the truth is, something has also been learned in this respect. The new minister of education called the "advisors" on August 25th -- August 25th -- and this time there was no change of last minute. The agreements on health and education measures and actions which were adopted and adopted in May and June were ratified in the same way. After this meeting, the education protocol for this course was ratified. It is a transitional protocol based on agreements between the Government and the autonomous communities that the Ministry of Health made mandatory, with a statement of coordinated actions last June 2. The contents are already known, and, always without lowering the guard, we hope that the measures can adapt and be revised in some respects depending on health developments. The August sectoral conference was a productive meeting, although it is true that we have missed a greater commitment by the central government in some respects, both in enabling a specific and concrete fund to deal with the over-cost that the system has to assume -- if it is done in the previous course -- and also in disregard of vaccination, the vaccination ratio, for the establishment of health measures within the education system. Ladies and gentlemen, the axes and the main measures of this protocol are known. In children and primary, bubble groups are maintained with a maximum of 25 students and the use of masks and ventilation is maintained. There's some news. In secondary school, the interpersonal distance goes from 1.5 meters to 1.2 meters. This was authorized and proposed by the Ministry of Health and Education. And this makes it possible to recover spaces that were used as classes for unfolds, also to reduce unfolds, and to some extent return to normal, recovering schedules that were modified by the situation or the need to have more spaces. You can also share common-use materials: balloons, tobogans... obviously with established hygienic measures. Book loans are also extended in libraries and book loans are allowed. Finally, it progresses progressively towards normality; prudently, that is. Healthy, the biggest novelty -- no doubt-- the best news -- no doubt-- is the advance of vaccination; a vaccination that in Galicia is going to be very good. We're going to close the vaccination process this week for all people over 12 years of age. In this same week, all people over 12 will have the full pattern -- this same week -- And very few autonomous communities can say the same thing. By all the above -- and with the necessary prudence -- we can say that Galicia is prepared for the new course, with the necessary measures and the necessary certainty. And, of course, we will continue to support the decision-making of scientific evidence, health recommendations and the work of the Clinical Committee and also of the Educational Committee. We know that there is still a way to go about achieving normality, but we also know, after the experience of the past course and with all the prudence and responsibility, that our education system is able to face this new challenge. On the other hand, the Council meets -- it has completed -- one more course with its obligation to plan, regulate and administer teaching throughout its extension: levels, degrees, mobility and specialties. We face the organization in the activity of the centres, taking into account pedagogical, demographic, geographic and resource-related criteria. Last day 9 -- last week -- more than 187,600 schoolchildren from children, primary and special education returned to classes. Tomorrow they will -- even with the provisional data, but already quite closed -- over 200,000 students of ESO, Bachelor's degree, FP and special regimen. We also have 78,713 school dining rooms in this course, mostly managed by the Autonomous Community, also by municipalities and by the ANPA. And still with estimated data, in this course, 85,500 students will use school transportation in 773 centers. Galicia is again the state's first community in terms of the volume and strength of these complementary educational services. In addition, 363 students from special education centres, with an estimated €1.2 million budget, are provided for transport. We also have in Galicia a network of around 1,300 public-funded sub-centres, of which 1,100 are practically public-sector members. The concerted network has 3,992 units, 16 more than in the previous course, mainly as a result of the progressive increase in the levels of education agreed in the field of vocational training and also in special education concerts. To improve the organization and supply, there were also two new cases of integration of educational centres in Mazaricos and Begonte in this new course. And they have transformed, created, three integrated vocational training centers: one in Culleredo, at Labor University; another in Pontedeume; and Leixa, by Ferrol. And fortunately, no unitary course was closed for lack of a student. At this point of attendance, it is also worth highlighting the Council's effort in the field of educational works and infrastructure. This year we just opened three new teaching centers: one in a city, the Sacred Heart of Lugo; one in a county headquarter, the Sanxenxo Cross; and one in rural space, the Coirós childhood school. They are centers that respond to a new vision of educational spaces, taking advantage of some of the learnings derived from cowardice. As you know, Galicia bets on a new model of centres that responds to new educational, health and technological needs. Data demonstrating the intensity of interventions are the 557 performances for nearly 30 million people who were executed in a coherent manner in the summer, obviously of different sizes, some amounts, let's say, modest, but important for the centers, of 30, 40 or 50,000 euros, and others more than millions of euros. He acted practically in half the municipalities of Galicia and benefited from these interventions 150,000 students, also about 50% of those enrolled. It also generated -- something very significant -- an important workload; we're talking about nearly 1,400 linked jobs and 630 linked companies. We are also receiving 41 performances, which have an investment of 17.3 million euros, and are going to be auctioned by the end of the year around 84 works for a volume of 40 million euros. In total, we're talking about an investment of 86.5 million euros in 682 actions that take place, receive or bid during this year 2021. We have done -- and we are making -- an important effort, and we continue to work so that there are no significant impacts or problems in the development of these works, always taking precedence over security and always seeking to make teaching work compatible with the works. It's true that in some cases we're having material supply problems, something that's a generalized problem in the whole of Galicia and Spain, but obviously we have to keep in mind. Another key task is to make decisions based on the revision of the enrolment of public schools in the levels of child education, primary education and special education. As we have already said, no unit is closed at these levels. As with each course, the reorganization of units within the educational centres itself is challenged, and, as usual, they are carried out depending on the increase or decrease of the student, also in the state of care, adjustments in this matter. In this case, we have to say -- specifically vincellated to the covered protocols -- that Galicia qualified in the course 2021-2022 around 191 units more than in the year prior to the pandemic situation; despite the fall of the registration, about 6,000 in public education, compared to two years ago. Unfortunately, we have fewer students and yet we have more units than two years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of pupils and units has changed over these three courses affected by health measures, but also by demographics. In children and primary, and as a result of the compliance with the covid protocols, which derive from the application of these protocols, we have to ensure and assure the bubble groups to a maximum of 25 pupils, and this means that it has 164 specific units derived from the compliance of the bubble groups, developments linked to compliance with the protocol. And they involve hiring more than 220 teachers specifically to fulfill this function. There can be no doubt that the Council has organized the activity of educational institutions through efficient and efficient use of resources and always taking into account educational needs and health needs. One more course is told by a staff member who not only respects the catalogue of posts set by the Bipartite at that time and signed by the unions but who exceeds and improves the minimum forecast set by that agreement. One more course we have is a framework of teaching staff in public education that exceeds 30,000 professionals and that is always adjusted to real demands this school year. It must be borne in mind that tomorrow even the classes at ESO, Bachelor's degree, FP and special regime teaching, so we have to be careful about the figures I'm going to give and also be aware that there can still be slight percentage variations in the data I'm going to present below. Factors such as demography, the flexibility of health measures and the lack of specific State resources change the scenario with regard to the past course, which, we remember, was totally exceptional and atypical. Still, as we are committed, we think we can meet the needs of teaching in this course -- a course still affected by the pandemic -- with the recruitment of 2,095 teachers more than in the course 2019-2020 -- an early year -- including -- in this 2,095 -- those already announced by the Plan Recover. I'd like to be very clear on this point to dissipate any kind of doubt. The ratio in the classes is fixed by the Central Government: 25 pupils for children and primary and 30 students for high school. It didn't change either the pandemic or the new educational law, which was passed by the Socialist Party and its left-wing and nationalist partners a few months ago. Galicia not only meets the ratios, but improves them. We have the best student-professor ratio in Spain, along with Extremadura -- the best teacher-student ratio, along with Estremadura -- in Spain. 70% of Galician primary and childhood classes are below 20 pupils, and 30% fall by 10, and Junta recruits 2,095 in relation to the pre- pandemic situation this year. Once the data on students, centers, teachers, services is offered, it seems appropriate to present the situation of the educational model. We must not forget that measures have been taken to deal with cowardice, but at no time must we continue to bet on educational programmes that make the system better. The past course was absolutely exceptional, and forced to draw learnings and reflections, which now take shape in this course and become visible with the objective of improving the model. Thus, Galicia, it relies on Plan Recover, a strategy to provide the quality and equity of the education system in Galicia, based on the reinforcement of learning that could be affected by the pandemic and thus preventing early failure and neglect. In the course of this plan, 1,250 teachers, who are associated with the old PROA and ARCO programs, are hired to strengthen the learning of those students who need it most, and we -- we think -- have an impact area of around 50,000 students. The Plan Recover is structured in four lines of action: reinforcement of skills, support of students and families, training of teachers and betting for emotional well-being. The Union has also recently approved the Strategy for Digital Education, a strategy with the 2030 horizon, with 120 million euros in the first three years, and which includes a planned set of coordinated actions that are based on two basic pillars: the development of a high-performance digital educational ecosystem and the improvement of digital skills and capabilities. The strategy includes a series of impact actions, which are interrelated with each other and which have to do with, encompass, all academic areas, and take into account all the members of the educational community: teachers, teachers, families and students. By highlighting some: the creation of creatives in the public centers in Greece, the digital plan of centers -- presented a long time ago -- the implementation of artificial intelligence in the education system, support for the empowerment of STEM, robotics, intensive technologies; ultimately, different actions that pursue and also seek to correct the gender gap and that make a strong force in everything that has to do with training actions, both for teachers and families, in the field of digital competition. We also strengthen the E-dixgal program on this line. We first expanded to the 3rd and 4th of ESO the use of the digital book and practically doubled the number of students using the digital book. For the first time you can take six courses, from the perspective of the digital book, also for the first time this program extends to approximately 50% of the educational centres, and all the centers in the autonomous community themselves have virtual classes. We also bet on strengthening and empowering the Bachelor of Excellence, the STEMbach. We have new centers, 5 new centers, and we have a total of 43 in the Greek network. We introduced artificial intelligence. This year there's going to be a first-time subject of artificial intelligence in Bachelor's degree, and we want, in line with the development of curricula, cross-sectionally, to increase and pose its principles, the principles of artificial intelligence, throughout the educational system. We strengthen multilingualism. We have 42 new centres, compared to the previous year, we also reached almost 50% of the educational centres, and we expanded and strengthened our assistants. The same is true of the school library plan, the Plambe, which is expanding, and we have reached 765 centers in the current course. In the FP field, we're going to continue to move forward in an educational mode, which we're really proud of. We put in place the so-called masters, the specialization courses of FP, with very specialized titles to strengthen the professionalism and capacity of the professionals who teach them. We have 13 headlines, some like Cybersecurity, Data Management, Big Data, etc. We have made a very significant qualitative and quantitative leap in the field of dual vocational training, we have passed from about 50 modules, from 50 projects, to almost 150 projects, we have expanded nearly 100 dual vocational training projects and we involve nearly 500 companies. We're talking about growing and growing confidence in the business sector, in the productive sector, in the dual FP. Today, FP is a prestigious teaching, there is no doubt about it, which opens doors to future work. There's a higher demand on the student, there's greater confidence on the part of students and families, and there's greater trust on the part of companies, and this translates into a series of fundamental data. For example, for vocational training cycles enrolment has increased by 9.5% in this July compared to last July. We're talking about almost 3,000 more squares. He grew up, as I say, almost 10 percent, and the license plate hasn't been closed yet. And also, of course, master's demand has multiplied. There's a huge demand for these masters; not for everyone in general, but for the masters as a very positive formula to form and achieve a job in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also very significant that all of these programs and projects that I have just mentioned develop both in rural centres and in urban centers. We take this wide offer to all the centers, regardless of where you study. Galicia is the autonomous community, as you know very well, which has more population nuclei, and is also very well located -- of Spain's best -- about accessibility to educational services about its geographic dispersion. You've seen that, as a child and a primary, only 0.3 students don't have a primary or childhood center in their county. And you've seen that, in the field of high school and bachelor's degree, only 5% of students don't have an educational center in their county. In other words, 99.7% of 3-11-year-old and 3-11-year-old children can study at the centre of their county, and 95% of young people and girls can study ESO in their county. I think that's a very significant data that speaks of the effort to universally provide coverage for such a fundamental service as education. Ladies and gentlemen, I also remind you that we are still in the first few days of our course. We need to be aware that there may still be some variation in the data, very small, very small, some particular data, for example, I just said that registration in FP cycles has not yet been closed. But in any case, the organization, programs and the model of education is already defined, and one of the priorities that we have raised is to progressively return to normal. And I'm done. Greek education is in a position to face this new academic course with guarantees, with less uncertainty and with the necessary resources. We can't, of course, lower the guard, we have to follow the evolution of the pandemic, and go adapt to it. The health situation is still present, we don't know until -- let's hope it's the smallest possible time -- but that's why we can't give up moving forward in the education model that Galicia needs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to think about the present and we have to think about the future of our youth, which is ultimately thinking about the present and future of Galicia, and on this side, of the Council, we are working to keep our educational model to be what it is, a model that educates in quality, equity and gives equal opportunities and values to all our young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u33	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Martínez has the floor of the parliamentary groups, first of all, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. I have to start this intervention by asking him for forgiveness, humbly. I beg your pardon for making opposition; I beg your pardon for coming here to defend the interests of those who have put their trust in the Socialist Party of Galicia, and thanks to whom I am a Member in this Parliament. Because it turns out you started in a preventive way -- you see it's not very quiet with this course start -- talking about how to deal with the beginning of each course by the political groups. I ask you, Counsellor, what does the People's Party do in those autonomous communities, or even in the state, where it does not govern?, does the Government of the United States ever happy? Not, of course, does opposition, with greater or lesser success, but it does opposition. Counselor, you look like Boabdil el Chico after losing the kingdom of Granada. There is a permanent regret about how many reforms are beginning in the state, how many, let's say, changes make it the least problematic for the Education Council. And that's how we are, that's why you've been messing up for months. Unfortunately, within the inability to deny the most absolute evidence, you recognize that this autonomous community will have the age of 12 with the full vaccine this week. I insist, after denying for months and months the State's competence to achieve those goals, we are happy that the 12-year-olds will be vaccinated along with the rest of the population, and that's a success that you can't even deny. [[Applause]] And you are glad that the Autonomous Community of Galicia has been able to guarantee the presence and not all autonomous communities have done so. By the way, most autonomous communities have been able to do so, and some of those who haven't done so are governed by the People's Party. But, well, beyond these little argumentative jokes, you did a fairly extensive review of the past course -- we already know how it ended, fortunately for all -- and you did a review of the measures provided for in the Protocol for this new course 2021-2022. By the way, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has constantly extended its hand to the Government of Galicia in the measures it has taken in each case to deal with the pandemic, and you -- you know it -- in the educational field. I don't think you can find a single phrase in which this spokesman will question either of the measures that have been implemented. You say Galicia is the first autonomous community to provide complementary services. Nothing new; it's a reality that's constantly being repeated throughout the last courses, as a result of, of course, the population dispersion we have. Anecdote inside his speech. You included the Sacred Heart College of Lugo and said that you just inaugurated within the new pedagogical architecture, which I think you've invented votes, or designed -- sorry, more precisely, that you designed -- in recent months, when the Sacred Heart project is four years ago. Here something is missing from the point of view of the temporal concordance between a statement like the one you just made and reality. But we've reached the confusion ceremony. You said with all kinds of cautions that you could advance data on the hiring of teachers for this course 2021-2022. The only thing I've made clear is something I've already known -- because it was the only data we've been given by the Technical Secretary General of the Education Council at the Commission 4th week -- and there's going to be 220 more teachers, not with regard to the 2020-2021 course, but with regard to the 2019-2020 course. And from there everything is logical diffuse. You say, there's going to be 2,095 more high school teachers -- understanding that maybe I'm wrong -- that in the course of 2019-2020. We barely started when the referee we should use -- as you said, and I agree, we're in a pandemic course -- would be the 2020-2021 course. Unless you said that within these 2,095 were included the 1,250 reinforcements, of that Plan Recover. And here -- I'm going to let you sow some doubts, even if it's from the point of view of data congruence -- start, let's say, the maximum confusion. Look, does that 2,095 include the 220 masters or are they just high school? If I'm just a high school, I mean that there are 845 PES more than in the past, in the previous 2020-2021, which necessarily means, except for arithmetic errors, that there are 445 secondary education teachers less than in the past. And this is, Counsellor, the reality that it is so hard for them to recognize: that they have fewer teachers in the education system than those in the past, in the course we have just finished, which is what we have to use as a comparative reference, because, as you also know perfectly, comparisons must be made in homogenous terms, and, if the course was pandemic and this is also so, we have to necessarily use these two courses as a comparison, and not the previous course, the course 2019-2020. [[Applause]] And the worst of all of this is that, despite the triumphal and normal speeches of the Council of Culture, Education and University every beginning of the course, this is being particularly complex, because it is seen throughout the autonomous community that a retreat in the provision of public education services: decrease in teachers, break the equality of educational possibilities in rural surroundings -- something that you must be particularly aware of, since you made an explicit reference to which they were given the same opportunities, which you know is not true -- and also in the provision of the dining room. I mean, we're going back, Counsellor, to use the education system as a containment element of public expenditure, identically as was done in the years following the financial crisis of the biennium 2008-2009. The reality is that. And that, even though you received from the State Government nothing less than 204 million euros extraordinary to meet the needs of the pandemic. By the way, you will remember that with regard to the €92,987,000 fund, i.e. almost 93 million, you denied a non-legislative proposal by this parliamentary group to make an account in this Parliament of how these extraordinary funds were spent and how they were spent. For something it will be! For something will be when such an elementary exercise of transparency is denied! [[Applause]] But the fact is, despite having 828 million euros of this extraordinary fund in the state budgets of 13,400 million euros for the autonomous communities to deal with essential public services, you -- and I admit that the actual decree itself makes them unconditional funds, and that it makes them to meet the needs of public services -- are still without devoting them to that purpose. We have more than enough elements throughout the autonomous community to make a statement right now and at this first appearance that something is going wrong, ultimately wrong, in the Greek education system. You have a school, the CEIP of Nogals, where all primary education students have been grouped into a single group, and that's despite the fact that there are more students than those who allow grouping according to the criteria. Because I would also like you to clarify me if you're giving education to the Education Inspectorate so that you can't fulfill what's written. The poor example of responsible public management gives those who fail to comply with their own instructions and uses verbal instructions that give rise to an arbitrariness that we should not allow ourselves in a modern autonomous community! Or you have a school just a hundred feet away from this Parliament, here in Santiago, where there is a group of two primary education that has eight teachers, which is practically more than the number of subjects that these students have. Or in the case of the IES of Melide, along with the Fonsgrada, Ponticeso, Chantada and so many others, in which they are not allowing subjects to be offered that were being allowed to offer in previous courses because there are no minimum number of students. Your explanation, Counselor, is that it was already written. And that's a half-truth, and so it's half-truth, too, because, of course, it was written in the regulations, which is also true that these subjects were allowed to offer to students, because we're even talking about subjects in the second bachelor's degree course, which, in addition, consider an additional way for university access tests. Counselor, all this I'm telling you is not isolated cases, it's not an anecdote relationship, it could continue, but obviously I don't have time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u36	It's over, Mr. President. That's what there is. And as you said in the sadly famous case of today's so-called Begonte conservatory, it's all said, and as everything is said, we have nothing but to point out -- that for this we have been elected -- the weaknesses, the incongruences and the lack of commitment of this public education council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Lourenzo Sobral has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u38	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Rodríguez, I doubted at the beginning of your intervention that we were before an education adviser's appearance to account for the reality of the start of the course or whether we were before an interpellation from the Government to the opposition. I won't be the one who questions the need -- given the outcome they're doing with public education -- that they're going to be questioning this alternative of government. But, fortunately, Mr. Rodríguez soon took him back to the fair of slogans he used to us. I really believe that if it wasn't for the difficulty that you have in transferring a certain clarity into the information, your interventions should be introduced into the ESO curricula as a paradigmatic example of what propaganda language is, of what the advertising text is. And we told you this not only because of the connotative character who have these texts, this relationship, let's say, with the relaxed truth, let alone, but because all his intervention had as its central axis to assume the slogan of always, the fair of initiatives that year after year, with different names, come to present themselves without any new fulfillment for the teaching of Greek and to hide what is at the heart of the performance of his counselor, Mr. Rodríguez, who is the obvious reduction of professor we are suffering from in this course. And he knows because he was unable -- as he certainly did the other day to Manuel Vila and other Members of the People's Party in the 4th Commission itself -- to give one specific data on the teacher. It has not been able to do this, Mr. Rodríguez, because this is the evolution of public education that we are living in the teacher since the People's Party ruled: almost 5% less in public education. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a graph.]] And he wasn't able to give one specific data, Counselor, too for this, because this is the evolution of the professor of private education since the People's Party ruled. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows another graph.]] Since you've been in government, you've raised teachers in private education by 5 percent and you've reduced teachers in public education by 5 percent. And that's why they come with that data fair, with an absolute inability to create. They spoke this year of 191 units more in children and primary. It's funny! last year they announced 311; in the end, 168 and in the August 6 CEO, what's established is that we have 127 less units. I'm just here to move you to tell us clearly, not mixing what's the staff board and programs, how personal teaching career officer and how staff I'm interim we have today in the education system and how much we're going to have on September 14 or 15, the day we start school, how much we had last year and how much we have this year. And if you want, we can also figure it out by educational levels and by data from the year 2019. That's what can make us have a perspective on what's happening in the education system. But you know why they don't? Because the data we have on the table is that we are facing a reduction of nearly half a thousand teachers in high school. That's the reality you don't want to face. And that's why, while you spent the summer with the programs that, of course, you were here announcing, throwing taboos in public schools to support our student in the classrooms, because they have no repair -- as this graph shows -- by filling her pockets into private education, called Escotet, or called the Opus Dei centers, which secretate the student by sex and inoculate hatred in the educational system, with a class education, rancio and reactionary. But since you don't want to bring this data here, I bring you some so that you can evaluate and so you can evaluate -- and we can all value -- what's the role of the People's Party in the time it's been ruling and in the course we're going to start, since you're ruling. This year, course 2021-2022, we have reached nearly 4,000 private educational units subsidized, the same year they are cutting in public education, Counsellor. You devote 20 times more to private education than you do to scholarships. DOG of August 20th: You remove the catalogue of private units subsidised. 42 more left. As you know, there was a reduction, too, and there were 16 more. DOG August 26th: private units increased on August 20th, and a week later, on August 26th, 127 less units were moved into primary and childhood education. Since you govern, they have subsidized more than 140 units in concerted education, and in time, they've closed 1 out of every 10 public schools -- i.e. 138 less since you've been in government. And since you govern, Mr. Rodríguez, transvasions, transfers of public funds to private education, they have increased by 18%, to nearly 280 million euros this year. That's the X-ray we have on the table on the placard that the Government of the People's Party has about teaching; and that's why we have to attend this permanent ceremony of confusion. But if we go to the data we're talking about -- you referred to the theme of the maximum ratios in class -- we see they're contributing again to that ceremony. You know perfectly well that there is nothing -- no context like what we are in, and what we should have as a central reference -- that prevents you from setting ratios below what you set the maximum ratios per class. When you talk about average ratios, you're not implementing a measure that affects communities -- as you yourself said -- like Extremeura, who have problems of depopulation like what we have here, in Galicia, and that set a ratio of 10, but that represent that problem. But in the case of rural people, I think we should also pay attention -- and so it was also pointed out in the previous intervention -- to what certain families are living with regard to the choices we have on the table today. Mr. Rodríguez, I don't know if you think it's a return to normality or that it's rational that there are families -- even yesterday I've been talking to some people in Sadurniño -- who knew that their children wouldn't be able to have a letter itinerary in their teaching centers, for example. We're talking about the center of San Sadurniño, but we could talk about -- as it was said here -- that it's extensible to Melide, Cangas, Becerreá, the Road, but also to many other urban centers throughout the country. And why does this happen? Because the Council doesn't allow them to register. They establish a change of approach with regard to the number of students needed and do not allow students to be enrolled in these subjects, which are sometimes central and determinants -- as it has been said -- for ABAUs, so that these families can access the careers they want. Is this the normal thing you come here trying to sell us, Mr. Rodríguez? And the same is happening with vocational training cycles. There's a new band in the middle cycles, that happy new idea in which suddenly certain cycles qualify as low-demand cycles, so we close the plate in June -- when it's known that these cycles are fed to a good extent with a September student -- and that student can't take that lesson. And, of course, here you come boasting, well, that the past course... Well, it's funny that the title of your appearance is to analyze the issues this year, and you set the reference to the past course, except to provide the teacher with the necessary education system. I don't know if you remember, Counselor, that this very thing told us here a year ago you were here when we were -- well, we, and the families, teachers -- demanding that that that rabbit of the joke that got out of semi-presence was an absolute barbarity. And you came here to tell us exactly what you told us this year. Then he had to step back, he had to correct, and he had to do it, as much as the medals are now being put on, because the principals of the schools threatened not to start the classes. We had to watch that expectation of having to postpone the course for something that could be perfectly avoidable simply by having the People's Party, just with which you, Mr. Rodríguez, had the right -- do it -- listen to the educational community. Counselor, we're in a transition course. And in a course in which -- in my body like the Professor's Conference and you yourself recognize it here -- the pandemic will therefore be present and it comes, in addition, to accumulate itself at an obvious wear that there was in the student and some difficulties that are there, it requires a teacher as never before. The BNG proposal is that the teacher is strengthened for the coming courses, that the education system is provided -- we put a data, but we are willing to negotiate it, of course -- of 1,000 teachers, that ratios are established that allow all these circumstances that have been experienced these years to be overcome and, of course, that everyone is guaranteed to have access to the optionals, regardless of where he lives. It's not true that you're guaranteeing that. And besides, he's got...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u40	... -- finished, president -- easy reversibility. And, above all, Counsellor, we need to get to work in public education, making the Education Council provide staff and resources for public schools and cease to function as a mere commercial private education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Lorenzo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor Mr. Roder Tato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, very good day. The truth is we started a new school course. I thank the councilman and this parliamentary group for immediately realizing a fact that interests the whole community, especially families and children. So go ahead with that thanks to this audience at your own request. The truth is that we started this course by listening also to the same criticisms as ever, the same criticisms of the last twelve years by the opposition. It is true that I believe it is important to know what the current reality is and what the current needs of the education system are. The truth is, during this month of August, we heard statements from opposition leaders that called attention a little, because to say that most students would not be vaccinated at the beginning of the course, because, indeed, it does not correspond to reality and rather seems associated with a parallel world. I believe that we must be serious, that we must make a serious opposition and that we must, of course, take into account the present situation of the pandemic. I'd like to remind you that today the Greek families are vaccinated, that the teachers are vaccinated -- by the way, Galicia is the community of Spain with the highest percentage of vaccinated teachers -- that Galicia has led the vaccination of the 12-year-old group and that in the coming days -- as the counselor announced -- will be vaccinated with the full schedule. Obviously, the demographic situation has also varied, and it's true that there are 6,000 students less in children and primary than before the pandemic, and this is a fact that somehow also influences educational programming. There is, of course, a protocol that the Union is fulfilling, a new protocol, a protocol approved -- as was said here -- by the Government of Spain and that obviously changes the distances in secondary schools. This data is very important and very quiet data that you don't want to take into account when you talk about the decline in the number of teachers. This I think represents a lot, but to you, if this data doesn't take them into account, they actually break their speech. I think these are very significant changes and we have to adjust to the current reality. It's obvious that this is a different course, with a lot more certainty than the past course, certainties based on the previous experience. And it must also be emphasized -- and here it was said -- that Galicia, no matter what happens in other autonomous communities, could guarantee almost 100 percent full presence. That was supposed to count also at that time -- that last year -- with more teachers, not all autonomous communities could do it. Obviously, I think we all share that 12-year-old student vaccination represents the greatest certainty and health security, and that obviously cannot be lowered. The advisor noticed here a number of measurements. There is a protocol made over time, made in shape; a protocol also approved by the Government of Spain, which, as clearly specified, guarantees the bubble groups in children and primary, so the distance from 1.5 to 1.2 meters is reduced, and secondary vaccination is reinforced. I think it's an important date for recruitment -- as the counsellor just announced -- of 2,095 teachers. I think these 1,250 reinforcement teachers are very important, which have increased 250 compared to the previous course to ensure that all those students with more needs can be cared for and well-trained by the education system. We are in a year of great activity, of works and investments, to ensure that the centres have good infrastructure and that they provide security measures. We're talking about a total of 400 centres, with an investment of EUR 30 million this summer, which adds to a joint investment of EUR 86 million this year 2021 -- possibly the most important investment in education infrastructure in recent years -- Indeed, it is within the framework of that Plan of new pedagogical architecture. And, Mr. Álvarez, in the Sacred Heart, indeed, the building was designed, but the equipment with which this centre is equipped are adapted to the new Plan of equipment and pedagogical architecture. It's also put in place -- as the advisor said -- a Welsh digital education network, with the recruitment of experts in this direction. We have a teaching staff, with good stabilization in the teacher, with 4,000 teachers through the oppositions held this year and that will be repeated for next year. And that allows us to have Spain's lowest interim rate and to have the salaries approved above the state average. You also spoke, Counsellor, of a series of measures aimed at strengthening that learning resented by the pandemic, maintaining emotional well-being and pushing a model of post-covid schools through this Plan of new pedagogical architecture; measures that, of course, seem very appropriate and very correct to this parliamentary group. So we walk in a course where we keep the templates established by the central government, and where the only changes in childhood and primary are the drop in enrolment: 6,000 students less than two years ago and 4,000 students less than this last course. So you're going to have to fit teachers and classes into these needs, which are -- as we said here -- 164 units and 220 teachers. I insist that as a child and as a primary, the only changes that are made are due to this minority of students. On the other hand, in secondary -- as clearly specified -- there is a change in measures, and Together has programmed the relevant developments on the basis of these measures; more than anything, there is no change but to adjust them to these measures. And, of course, last year's contracts were for health reasons. If health reasons vary, I think everyone can understand that personal adjustments -- just like you did -- have to do them. So, in addition to the logic of your posture, in many cases it's populist and contradictory because you're talking about an important cut in teaching. We regret -- and if you say that here, you can say it in Madrid -- that the state denies the specific funds for maintaining the teacher's recruitment. Today the spokesperson for the Socialist Group has already made a small change in what came to defend its leaders of the parties these days. Because, of course, if we value it this way, the first big cut in the start of the course carried out by the Government of Spain was not to summon the specific order of aid from the hedged funds, which was endowed with 92 million euros. This specific order is 2020, 2020-2021 ; and this year this order has not been convened. [[Mr. Rodeiro Tato shows a document.]] Therefore, if this order is not summoned, of course, you have to recognize -- although during the summer they did not recognize it -- that there is no specific hedge funds for the teacher. So it's not necessary -- because they've been saying it and they've been lying because if you believe this order hasn't been published -- therefore there's no such specific funds and, therefore, there's no specific funds for hiring teachers. Because you know well that the funds of the European Resilience Mechanism cannot be used for the recruitment of teachers. Many presidents of socialist communities have already told them, and they have also been told by the Public School Platform, where they are integrated UGT, the ANPA Confederation, the Workers' Commissions, etc. Even Labour Commissions has just sent a letter to the minister. The State Platform for the Public School itself has also just sent a letter to the minister, saying: "The funds allocated to the autonomous communities by the Government should be necessarily associated with maintaining and improving the measures of the past course." So everybody here knows that there are no specific funds for the teacher's recruitment, and they all protest, but of course they don't do it where they have to do it. And the truth is, I miss that some of the gay Nationalist Block-friendly unions had said nothing, said nothing about this situation and said absolutely nothing about these funds, and by not saying absolutely nothing is that you are surrendering to the Ministry, are surrendered to the Government of Pedro Sánchez in order to keep some postmen in those places where they rule every time they lose the elections. [[Applause]] You make a nationalist banner policy, but you're not defending the interests of the Greeks. When all platforms and unions said something, the Galician Nationalist Block in Galicia said nothing. He didn't say anything about those 92 million-euro cuts. And the truth is, when you speak and ask for new ratios, the truth is that they don't adjust to reality, especially because Galicia counts, as the counselor said, one of the best ratios in Spain, and some ratios that the Spanish Government didn't change either with the pandemic or even with the law; that law that, of course, didn't serve to change the ratios, which was what was needed. Today Galicia not only meets the state's ratios to conform to the classes, because we have the best ratio of teachers/students in Spain, is that 70% of primary and childhood classes are below the 20 students. And, of these, 30 percent below 10. We have the best ratios and you're constantly protesting about this and they don't say anything at all when the Ministry doesn't call the specific fund order that was convened in the past course. Therefore, Galicia is the community of Spain that most teachers have with regard to its number of students.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u44	I'm done, Mr. President. So if we're the Spanish community that most teachers have about the number of students, we're in a good situation, which you don't want to recognize. And, indeed, there will be some tension, in which the inspection services are working and are solving. So, I don't think it's your speech that matches the reality of the education system. For my part, that's all. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Rodríguez González, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, has the floor for the replication.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u46	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, hearing the opposition groups is kind of -- let me say the expression -- jaja vu constant. The warrants are constantly repeated. Little or no matter that over the years they've been changing their spokesmen, some very well-trained and very professional in their work. Anyway, you always talk about it, you don't take into account the context, the reality, and, most of all, the most worrying, you don't take into account the positive results that the Greek education system has achieved in recent years. They're making serious criticism. His general reflection, his general message is: more teachers are needed. That's educational policy. And they need more, more, more... and it's never enough. They don't talk about results, they don't talk about educational programs, they don't talk about innovation measures. It's more like you -- it was said here -- a sort of joke catalogue. I don't remember the exact word that Mr. Spokesman of the Block said, but a sort of catalog of jokes or something like that. And the second reflection is: if the board doesn't extend the number of teachers is by ideology and because they want -- they always use the word -- "dismantling" the Greek public education. That's what they almost always say, and they accuse us of contempt for public education, that we don't provide enough, that we don't have enough resources, etc. However, then we go to reality and see the investment of public spending by pupils in Galicia. Obviously, there are two autonomous communities -- the suburbs, the Basque Country and Navarre -- that have a very powerful public expenditure, but we are, along with Cantabria, the autonomous community that has the greatest public expenditure as a student. I think from there everything that's talked about decommissioning, desletion, etc., obviously falls when you see the data. And I recognize that we have less spending than the Basque Country and Navarre, outlying communities, but we're practically alongside Cantabria and we have an exponential increase in respect of other autonomous communities that are practically in the queue truck. The truth is that what matters to us is the educational results, mainly the educational results. And in view of what you say about dismantling, we could bring a lot of data from qualitative and quantitative variables that talk about the good functioning of the Greek education system in recent years. Maybe one of the most important -- which means -- is the reduction in school dropout. You see, President Feijóo's governments took education with almost 26% of school failure. In the Bipartite, 4 points will increase the school failure, from 22% to 26%; today we are at 12%. [[The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Rodríguez González, displays a graph.]] There is nothing more unfair and unfair socially than that a student fails school, because we orient it towards life-long, frankly complex and difficult itineraries. I think this is a fundamental variable that is never said. And you also often come to criticize one thing and, the following year, precisely ask to consolidate what they criticized last year. One proof of this is that at the beginning of the past course, by these dates, you assured me that it was not true that there was an increase of 2,300 contracts. And right now they're asking for what they denied last year, today it's kept. That's in the hemero library, it's a reality, isn't it? The truth is, in the end, time is always a great judge, and time gives and takes away reasons. And I'm sure if within a year we look at what is said in this House on the one hand and on the other, we'll see that there won't be much change and that we'll still have some data. Yes, you will continue to say that we are privatisers, they will continue to say that we cut professors, they will continue to say that the government of the state distributes a rain of millions, they will say that we have a dismantling of public education... well, they will say again, I am radically sure. I, of course, am not able to give you any advice; no advice can give you, but I would ask you for some caution or some verbal restraint, because sometimes it gives the feeling that in education only left-wing policies and nationalist policies are worth it; it gives you that feeling, as if there were some sort of Sancta sancta sancta sanctuaries that is in absolute possession of left-wing and nationalism. But then, watch out! we're going to see the data, the comparative data by autonomous communities, and, with the same legal framework, which are the autonomous communities that have better results in quality and equity. They are essentially those that are traditionally governed by the People's Party: Castile-Leon, Madrid or Galicia, for example. And what are the autonomous communities that have worse educational results with the same legal framework? Those who have traditionally been ruled by left-wing forces and the Socialist Party: Castile-A Mancha or Andalusia. That's reality, but you're just talking about a single quantitative variable. And, of course, then it's said here that there's a rain of millions; Mr. Alvarez said that 830 million. Home!, it gives the feeling -- and if we're almost accused of not using them -- that some of my colleagues, those who have the utmost personal and professional respect and who rule in autonomous communities of the Socialist Party, because they haven't found out either, like I didn't find out. Because, man!, I see the statements in the newspapers and I listened to my colleagues at the Sector Conference on August 25, and we say the same, very similar; everyone, the vast majority, we demand concrete and specific funds to comply with the covered protocols, all of them! [[Applause]] And it is true -- I will not deny it -- that the European funds distributed through the Sectoral Conference provide economic resources to the autonomous communities. But they're different things, and you can't try to mix both issues. One thing is the European funds and another is the specific and specific funds and resources that we demand from the autonomous communities. Even so, the German education will re-encounter this course with an extraordinary teacher to meet developments through the vault and to advance in new educational programs. We are making an important effort under the basic premise of meeting real needs, taking into account, of course, factors such as demography or the flexibility of health measures. We think we're meeting the needs of teaching in this course -- yes -- still affected by the pandemic, with the recruitment of 2,095 teachers in respect of the course 2019-2020. And here are those already announced from the Recovery Plan, maintenance for undeployment by health measures and also new contracts, either in the field of vocational training, or in the field of digitisation. And I'm going to put them into practice so that there's no doubt about it. We have already talked about 1,250 reinforcement teachers in the Recovery Plan, which is an advanced evolution of traditional ARCO and PROA programs: 220 teachers in children and primary to secure the bubble groups; 290 teachers to meet the increase in supply in ESO, Bachelor's degree and vocational training; and 225 teachers for maintenance of development in ESO, Bachelor's degree and vocational training. And as a novelty, 110 teachers will reinforce the digitization of the teaching of Greek and the guidance network. These 110 are covered by European funds linked to the Resilience Plan. This is the data. They may oscillate something percent depending on the end of the registration, but it's the actual data. I'd also ask the Block for a certain precision here, because we haven't heard Mrs. Pontón say that there would be 1,000 teachers less. Today the spokesperson tells us there are 500 teachers less. Something's wrong here, either you've been wrong about Mrs. Pontón or you've been wrong about yourself. But, in any case, you have to have a little verbal restraint and prudence so you don't throw messages in the air without more. Public education, ladies and gentlemen, will have more teachers, no doubt -- I have repeated it -- that in the last pre-pandamia course, despite the reduction of students. We will strictly comply with the health protocol promoted by the Ministry of Health and Education, along with the autonomous communities. And, of course, we will have an economic and organisational effort to hire the teacher needed in each course. In the course of 2020-2021 -- the course we just finished, absolutely exceptional -- they hired, as you know, 2,300 teachers over the previous year. This year, compared to the previous year, with a transitional year, 2,095 will be contracted for the preceding year. Because actually, we're in a pandemic, but the comparison isn't the same. This year's measures are not the same as last year's measures. He changed the protocol, he changed a fundamental variable, the interpersonal distance between the student, and he also changed the vaccination. Mr. Álvarez said it was normal for us to be vaccinated. In Galicia this week we're going to vaccinate ourselves all, because the Health Council has done a huge logistical and management work, and we're going to have on double standards for all vaccinated students, but not in all autonomous communities, and I'm going to put three examples, and one of the People's Party, so that I'm not always accused of setting bad examples of the autonomous socialist communities. For example, in Alicante, one out of five children is not vaccinated; they started the course without vaccinating one out of five. In Balearics, 46% of 12-19-year-olds are only with a pattern. In Andalusia, they have 50 percent of the students vaccinated. And Galicia will have 100 percent of students vaccinated this week. I think that's something very significant that needs to be taken into account. And by going back to the professional organization again, we have to say that logically, if we reduce the deployments in secondary school, they can't be reduced, going from 1.5 to 1.2. This is the result of the new interpersonal separation health measure, and it will also allow for the recovery of spaces for the interpersonal life of the centers: libraries, gymnasiums, etc. In primary and also in some high school localities there were, like every year, to make organizational adjustments, which are motivated by demographic dynamics and group formation. And here it is said, as if it were a great novelty, that in some cases groups are not allowed to be formed. It's been doing this for years, and it's been in Galicia, there's a significant difference between rural and urban. In urban areas, there are no groups with more than 10 pupils, and in rural areas, with less than 5. It's also true that there are inspection teams. Depending on the characteristics of each centre, they may authorize even less than that number, depending on the resources available at each centre; as in FP, where minimum thresholds are set for 8 and 12 pupils to form logical and meaningful groups. This has been doing all life, all life!, as is logical and as is done in all the autonomous communities of Spain, all of them. In some of them it's not 10, it's 15, the minimum group of students is 15, and here's 10, and with a very powerful differential with those of the rural environment, which is 5 students, and even in those five, the potential for it not to be done this way. And I would also like to reject his criticism of the Council's lack of commitment to teaching and what it has to do with the exercise of its own powers. I've already put the data I reflect that Galicia, together with Cantabria in this case, are the autonomous communities that we devote most of our resources to public education per student. I think that's a data that can be improved. Everything can be improved, but look!, being in the first in Spain, being the seconds of Spain along with Cantabria, for a little verbal prudence. When you talk about competences, you all certainly know that competences are transferred to the autonomous communities. And you always talk about propaganda, which is a term, along with the dismantling, usual in your speech. The truth is, in this case, the term "propaganda" should be assigned to the Central Government. And why do I say so? I say it basically because, on occasion, based on a series of communications by the Socialist Party, it seems that the Ministry of Education provides its own, state-owned resources to autonomous communities, and it is not true. What is there is a role of sharing or filtering the autonomous communities with regard to European funds, which have to go to the administrations that implement and develop public policies. And look, last year the Galician Union invested approximately 162 million euros to meet the needs of the vault. This course, of course, is marked by economic effort because there is no direct support from the State. They have no objection to admitting that through the Sectoral Conference European funds are coming in -- between quotes -- "through the Ministry's filter." They don't have any repairs, it's true; now, specific funds don't exist. For example, the 80 professors of the Digital Centre Plan are funded by these European funds, but you should also admit that, basically, zero. That's what this counselor says, and many of the Socialist Party's advisors tell him. There are no state-specific resources for shelter, neither for Galicia nor for any autonomous community. However, and in this course of transition and flexibility of measures, the investment of the Council of Galicia, linked to the hidden situation, amounts to EUR 139.9 million for education; an amount that is actually lower than last year, which was totally exceptional. And how do you share it? 13.9 million for the Plan Recover, as we have already said, hire of 1,250 teachers of reinforcement, 82.1 million for adaptation to the covid -- in this case, we have the parts of the educational reserve fund, which we practically duplicate-- the adaptation of dining rooms, the payment of deployments, adaptation works, cleaning...; ultimately, 82.1 for adaptation and 43.8, which correspond to the European funds, which are oriented and linked to the post-cavid recovery. And in this area, we're going to boost the improvement of digital competition -- I said -- for example, with the Digital Centre Plan. We're also going to help modernize vocational training as a post-cavid reaction and also the accompaniment units, coupled with all this and applied all this to the learnings of the pandemic. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to have more resources, of course; of course we would like to have more resources, but the truth is we cannot have that pessimistic vision. Greek education is in a position to face this academic course with greater guarantees. We can't, of course, lower the guard, we have to follow the evolution of the pandemic and we have to go see how we adapt. Of course, the health situation continues to concentrate a significant part of our efforts, but we must also move forward towards the educational model we need in Galicia. It's not a time for triumphalisms, nor for catastrophes, it's a time for thinking about our education, for further improvement and for recognizing what works well, and Greek education works well. The past course, the whole educational community gave an example, a great example, and I don't think it deserves the pessimism that conveys the opposition, nor the constant question of the quality of training that our students receive, nor, of course, think of the equity that our educational system gives, nor of the equal opportunities that our educational system brings. If you allow me -- and already to finish -- I would ask you to abandon your serious criticisms, to have more verbal restraint and prudence, to not constantly question the education system, and to ask you, as I am, to be proud of our education because, ultimately, it is part of our present, but, above all, it is going to be part of our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u47	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Special round of clarifications. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Wheel, the parallel world is yours, the alternative world, the Matrix, I don't know whether or not Redux, but the Matrix, in any case. Because, let us say that we question vaccination, when it is you who have been constantly sowing doubts about the goals of the Government of the State for all, and for all autonomous communities, it is meritorious. [[Applause]] You do change your speech, you are in a parallel world. And you say that, of course, as there are fewer students, because there must be fewer teachers. Well, that statement, in principle, is quite questionable, because you would have to see the optimization of that student reduction in each of the centers, in each of the units. But if so, how is it possible that autonomous communities such as the Balearic Islands increase by 7% the teacher with respect to the past course, Canarias, another 7%, Ceuta and Melilla, 3%, the Valencian Community, 15% and A Rioxa, 68%? What about these autonomous communities? Where do the funds come from? Are they robbing people to pay the teachers or are they running otherwise? I think it is obvious that they administer otherwise, because I do not see an increase in delicious activity in these autonomous communities; perhaps, yes. [[Applause]] And you say, Mr. Rodeiro, there's 30 million euros in works. Of course I do. I can also teach you a list of the Galician Public Procurement Platform where there are 13 contracts with which, with funds, I mean, aimed at strengthening health containment, if they're changing decks into centers. That, as far as I know, has nothing to do with improving the health situation of the centers, and yes, possibly from the point of view of the units in the classrooms, yes. Unfortunately, Mr. Roderius, you realized that indeed the College of the Sacred Heart was not incorporated into that new plan of pedagogical architecture. I think you made a mistake trying to justify the error made by the counselor, because you talked about the equipment within that new plan. Mr. Wheel, if the equipment is, let's say, to deal with the hidden situation, I think it should be extended to all the centers, not only those that just opened. But the usual, populist speech, lacking in foundation, when not mistaken consciously, to talk about a reduction in teachers. If the advisor himself just gave the figures, fortunately, in his second intervention, and those figures show that there are about 625 high school teachers less than in the past! Yes, yes man!, we'll see the figures when we get up and stay calm and see what the course was, and we'll contrast with the Journal of Sessions what you just said here: 220 masters, 290 secondary teachers associated with supply increments, 225 for deployments and 110 for reinforcement of digitization. [[Murmurs.]] That, by the way, sums up that amount, which I think is considerably less than that of the past course. But, well, it seems that the big problem is that the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training did not issue a specific order for the distribution of funds for education. Last year you refused to inform this Parliament that these 92 million euros were dedicated to because they were specific and didn't want to account in Parliament, and now the problem is that there is no order to tell you how to spend it. But what are we left with, do you want co-governance or do you want to work all the time at the saying of a central government? Because if that's the case, that famous autonomist and galeguist PP and I don't know how many other "istas" no longer exist. That's the reality. What do you want, to tell them everything they have to do, or want autonomy to do it? Let's get this straight, Counselor. And you said that the speech of the opposition was a deja vu. It's also not that yours was very new, frankly, what do you want me to tell you? Novice had a little bit. [[Applause]] Let's just go. What do you think you're getting better, because you only said twice in your intervention, until now -- you can say a lot more in your closing shift -- that of "serious criticisms," which is also a question -- yes, if I take note because you've been ready to hear that phrase --... And, look, you always talk about educational performance. Anyway, I think we should do a monograph for each of us to show his charts on educational performance. It's just that Galicia was already below the school dropout rate in the Bipartite, which seems to have begun... it was born Christ in 2005, because there was nothing before, and now, from 2005 to 2009, it's the catastrophic period, and from there onwards the regeneration. [[Murmurs.]] Because look -- and I'm done, Mr President -- I'm left with a sad needless devaluation of this debate, in which everyone can defend their positions, but you just do something, Counsellor, which is not only a statistical barbarity, but devalues the political debate to the extremes that I think we should not allow. And you've established a direct effect-cause relationship between autonomous communities being governed by the People's Party and having a better educational performance than the student or being governed by left-wing, progressive governments -- what you want to call them -- and a lower educational performance. That, Counsellor -- I repeat -- is a statistical barbarity, because it puts the debate on a single explanatory variable, with absolutely nothing more in mind, and besides -- I repeat -- it devalues the political debate, and frankly, I believe that weak favor you make to this Parliament, to democracy in general, to the state and to the autonomous community by rendering such statements. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u50	Thank you, President. Mr Rodríguez, the year 2020, this same debate, under the circumstances of the pandemic, EUR 92 million corresponding to us from the covered fund. Counsellor for Education: we do not hire a teacher because with the Fund, we can't hire a teacher. In 2021, in this context, similar to the beginning of the course, education counsellor: we do not hire a teacher because there is no specific fund to hire a teacher. I mean, here the mantra is always the same: don't hire a teacher. And if we're still upstairs, then we can throw balloons out and take off our responsibilities, for better than better. But the question, as Mr Álvarez well said, is that beyond that we are in the pumppoon, in throwing balloons out, it is still that this Parliament is aware of what was the investment of those hidden funds that were made during the past course; it would not be too much. But we continue with the constant and nebulae manipulation of systematic data to have a real knowledge of what objective cuts are, that the entire educational community is sensing, and that sadly proves itself later. Let's go on, ahead of time: last year, at this point, we're going to make a contract of 320 units plus 511 in children and primary; finally, it was 168. This year there is a decrease of almost half, but this data is not given at all. And, above all, we went on; in the CEO of August 6, Mr. Rodríguez, it was effective, but not the nebulaes, not the demonstration, black on white; there were 127 fewer units in children and primary. And, of course, there are several options here: it's the family's fault, it's the student's fault, it's the government's fault, it's the opposition's fault, or assuming, Mr. Rodríguez, that whatever responsibility they have since the Education Council. And don't worry that, if it's because it's asking for funding from the State Government, it won't be the BNG who opposes it, but, for example, some German Members of the People's Party might be on the same line demanding funding, and not, as was said and I've already transferred the other day to Commission 4th itself, what happens when Mr Rajoy rules and says that the People's Party's MPs have to assume one by one of Madrid's postulates. Here it is assumed in a critical way, and when the Socialist Party rules, we systematically use the State Government's argument not to implement measures that could be implemented. With regard to the contract, Mr Rodríguez, I tell you that the contracts of the year 2020-2021 went ahead because the clauses refused to start the course. In this very debate that we are conducting here, in this very Parliament, you appeared here, after a meeting -- I don't know if you remember -- from the Galicia School Council, taking out of the gossip the question of mamparas, the question of semi-presence... it was necessary to postpone the start of the course, and then it was when, at last, you published that resolution with those extra contracts. In any case, tell me now -- it's curious -- of rigour in the presentation of the data. But, look, with the data that you've just transferred, it's going in an unequivocal way what you've transferred to our national spokesperson last week: that the cut from the reinforcement teacher, plus the cut from the high school teacher, that's going to be around these 500 or 600 professors, at least this year, because it's exactly the figure that moved our national spokesperson, if we don't -- and we'll see -- it's short, because, of course, what we're seeing, what they're moving all the educational centers, is that the systematic measure of works has been implemented in the centers -- for seeking educational excellence -- but what other educational centers, Mr. Rodríguez, is that it was to take tabiques, to increase the number of students per class; therefore, to reduce teachers. With regard to the issue of choices in rural education, what happened this year was a change in the approach of the Council. You know that and you're lying when you come here saying that this is always done. There was a change of opinion, because the instruction being moved is that what was done before, which was allowed to contemplate exceptions in these groups, is now done on a general basis. That's what they moved, and, if not, because he's lying to Melide's student, to Becerreá's, to Cangas's, to San Sadurniño's, and to so many urban centers in this country that are denouncing this change of approach. And what are the consequences? Whether a student or a student wakes up this morning thinking about going to a teaching center and suddenly they tell him that he can't enroll in that teaching center because he's not the itinerary he wants to take, or that there are not the subjects he needs to get a higher grade in selectivity. That's the normal thing you're talking about, Mr. Rodríguez. And, of course, then he comes here to move us, which is a question of pessimism and of questioning and trust in the teacher. Look, we, in the professor, absolute confidence, like times absolute confidence in the doctors and health care of this country, and we don't share the dismantling they're making of public health. So do you trust professionals? All of it. Those we don't trust are you, and it's not because of a matter beyond that they're subject to tensions to the education system that, after all we've been living, they don't deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u51	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Roder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, again, I think this debate has focused, above all, on the need for more or less teachers in the Greek education system. I, and this parliamentary group, indeed, rejoice, Mr Álvarez, that autonomous communities in Spain had increased their number as teachers. The truth is, we think it's good that they try to get closer to the reality and situation that Galicia has had for some time, so we're the first community in Spain that most teachers have as a student. [[Applause]] And, speaking as a teacher, I want to tell you and remind the members of this House that on June 23 we voted for a non-law proposal, and you did not accept an amendment from our group so that the specific funds coming from the State Government could be realized for Chapter I of staff. So if you don't accept that amendment, you're practicing an opposition here -- as I told you -- very little serious, because they say the opposite after what they do. And, look, you guys had a great, extraordinary opportunity to have more teachers -- which is the big problem we're focused on -- and to get the professor to regulate by organic law. It was approved at a frightening speed to the Cela Law, and you didn't incorporate a single comma, not a single point talking about the need to increase the ratios of teachers in Spain. So you have -- you didn't want to use that term -- something of a kind, because they actually come here protesting by a fact that Galicia is a pioneer, and then, when there's a demand for something in the government in the state, because, of course, they're very quiet. So no one escapes from the fact that this is a state competition, and therefore I want to remind them that they constantly repeat that mackerel from the teacher. Other years protested because unitarian schools were closed. This year, as no one closes, for, of course, they come with another kind of claim. Yes, yes, Mr. Mini. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes. No, no, you shut them down at a rate of 27 per year; 27 per year in the Bipartite -- the years 2006 and 2007 -- [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You can check the closure of unit schools, and with 12 students!, which are now only closed with 6; with 12! So, I think, if you'd ruled, they would have all closed. Yes, yes, of course... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, I think that, of course, this parliamentary group sometimes we don't like to discredit the data, because there is a certain position on the left in this Parliament to try to discredit data from the Greek education system. Neither should we evaluate them, nor should we despise them. There's important data that we should all be proud of. We are the first autonomous community in scientific competence, I think it's good. And we passed -- you guys left the fifth post in the Bipartite to be now in the first place. We are the first community in reading competition, we are the fifth in mathematical competition; I was in the tenth place and now it's in the fifth. I know that it bothers them that the data goes well, I think it's not worth it; it's a unique and exclusively merit of the entire Greek education system, of which we should all be proud. And I'm telling you more, the Greek students have twice as many possibilities for higher academic performance in terms of unfavorable socio-economic environment in Galicia than in Basque Country or Catalonia. So you don't despise the data, international data and data given by the Ministry. And besides -- the counselor reminded you-- there's the reduction. While the dropout rate is increasing elsewhere in Spain, Galicia is falling. And besides, he's never been so affixed by education. We are in the first position of the autonomous communities of common regime in student investment. Well, I think it's a merit for everyone to be able to allocate funds to teachers, and we're talking about an investment per student of EUR 1,200, above the Spanish average. We are the Spanish community with the best ratio of students per computer, we have the lowest university rates in Spain and we are the only community in Spain where all under 21 have free public transport -- I think it's an important data, because it's not given in other autonomous communities -- So it's good to be constantly discrediting the education system. Moreover, the data, especially the funding data, clearly believe, Mr. Lourenzo, that our bet is public education. It's just that in the Bipartite they did the same, they had a concerted education, and we think it's a good idea, which was launched by the Socialist Party in the 1980s in Spain. [[Murmurs.]] We never despise that system, but you're partners of the Socialist Party for some things, and for others they're not. I'm done, Counselor, thanking you again for the attendance and the work you're doing, and I want to transfer the congratulations of this parliamentary group to the entire educational community for the effort you're making at the beginning of this new school course. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u53	Thank you, Mr. Roder. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closing of this audience, the cultural, educational and university advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u54	He said that when it's cold, I'll try not to heat up in the environment. But, well, the truth is, one more debate is that we don't get to the meeting points, because you talk practically alone and exclusively about a variable, and then, constant ideological slogans, and never really talk about what's important, about the results. A system like the education system is not an end in itself, it's a means; it's a means to give opportunities to children and children today for the future, and it's a means for these children and girls, these boys and girls, if they form in quality, to be able to look educationally at any European region and think about a better future for them and their surroundings. You're just talking about a variable, and in the end, your speech, when compared to reality, falls, because you're talking about dismantling. If you had a little bit of self-worth, when you put the data on the table, you'd realize that dismantling is not the right adjective; look for another adjective, but not dismantling. [[Murmurs.]] Why, which autonomous community dismantles it when it is, not the first, but the second that most resources concern public education? What would they say if we were at the 12th, the 13th, the 11th or the 7th? It doesn't make sense what you say. Or when they talk about the teacher, they want better ratios. What would you say when we see that we're in Spain's second position along with Extremadura? If we were 12, what would you say? There's no credibility in what they say, because their speech is about reality, and it's about statistical data, which aren't even autonomous, they're about the Ministry, they're about the state. The truth is, I think that speech, in the end, is very simple, of self-comprehensibility, and it makes no sense, no sense, to do it. Of course, then they almost pose for us and tell us about data manipulation. Listen, I recognize Mr. Lourenzo who was quick; he was able to rectify his data, which contradicted his spokesman, from 1,000 to 500... well, he was quick to adjust them. And there's no way he's manipulating a data. We make all the comparisons regarding the prepandemic course. Why? Because we're talking about a transition course. Obviously, such brutal exceptionality and the protocols and health warrants that existed in the past do not exist in this course, to which one cannot compare what is unequal. We're going to compare to those that existed before, and here we see all the data I just said, that are comparative data that I really think they leave Galicia in a good place; no doubt, they leave Galicia and the system in a good place. I said at the beginning, and I repeat, there are two ways of doing politics, it is very clear, very clear: we are going to attack, we are going to wear out, we are going to make serious criticisms, without any argument behind it, with data, with contradictions... I remember last year that I was told that the 2,300 teachers didn't exist, that they weren't true. They told me last year here, and today they ask me to keep them. Let's see what we're left with? I've already said that last year we made a contract and this year a different one: 2,300/ 2,095. Obviously, circumstances change, and new contracts are also for implementing new programs. Or are teachers who are going to develop digital school plans aren't teachers who are going to be in educational centers? It doesn't make sense to try to mix the variables. I have repeated it on many occasions: there can be no less doubt that all health insurance measures will be complied with and that there will be all the teachers needed to respond to the educational offer. Obviously, the protocol has evolved, some measures are maintained, others have been flexed, we're increasingly going to greater normalization, and we're ready. Without a doubt, the education system is ready. There may be occasional problems, that there will be them, and there are concrete moments and specific incidences, that there will be them, as it cannot be otherwise, but the fact is that last year's experience, along with the rate of vaccination so powerful that Galicia has, marks us a different scenario, and the truth is that we will continue to meet the needs of the teacher, the ones that are necessary, 2,095 teachers. There may be a small change up or down to the percentage level, but we're talking about a very significant number that marks an effort. And I also want to say that I've already talked about the investment made, of the 139 million, of their distribution, of how they are structured and where they come from. And it makes a great effort, a huge effort. Our spokesperson, the spokesperson of the People's Party, about comparisons with other autonomous communities. In fact, other autonomous communities are being recruited. But why? For two reasons, or for three reasons, I'd say. First, by simple demography. If we see the demographic dynamics of the autonomous northern communities and the demographic dynamics of the southern autonomous communities, we see an objective reality. The Basque Country, for example, or Galicia, we lost students; those in the South earn students. It's necessary to have more teachers because of ordinary dynamics. Second, communities you mentioned, such as Balearics or Valencia, for example, did not have full presence last year from the 2nd ESO. 2nd, 3rd and 4th of the ESO, 1st and 2nd of the Bacharelate and FP had semi-presentiality, and this year the Ministry is proposing a full presence, which we have already achieved; with which, if we compare, we compare well. And third element of comparison, the ratios of some autonomous communities that you mentioned --Valence, for example -- are almost two points above ours. We're in a little over nine and Valencia in a little over eleven. Comparably, the situation is quite different, the spokesman said very well: they're making this effort to look more like us, and in that sense it's something purely and absolutely objective. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, I, what you've proposed, give you objective data. Some autonomous communities in PISA go out as they go out and others go out as they do, and I think that's where the rigor of public policies is seen, how the public services are managed, and how the policy is managed as important as education policy. You could -- just to finish -- take a look at the big projects that have a continuity, like, of course, multilingualism or digital teaching. They have a continuity and they're evolving. Why? Because we have been able to verify that equal opportunities are improved and that academic results are improved, and we have to deepen and innovate within them and improve. We have, for the new academic course, two major projects, the Plan Recovers, the Plan of Emotional Welfare, and the Digital Strategy, where we have already presented a project, the project of digital centers, multilingualism, FP, which is undoubtedly a qualitative and quantitative leap almost unprecedented in terms of supply; it is a fundamental education for the present and the future of the country. Finally, we will face the academic course with a mixture of optimism and prudence, with a mixture of responsibility and hope. But if what we're going to do, from the health perspective, but if what we're going to do from the educational perspective, it's to maintain the foundations that enable us to speak, within Galicia, of a vast educational system, where the word "dismantling" falls by its own weight, public spending, students by class, PISA results; if all these positive variables continue to talk about dismantling, you'll have to go to the dictionary and change your meaning to the word "dismantling", because it doesn't have any meaning at all. [[Applause]] Finally, we will continue to maintain an educational model that improves year by year, results, advances in quantitative and qualitative variables that measure the quality of a system that fully educates in values, gives equal opportunities and that ultimately, as I said in the previous intervention, we must continue to improve. We have done a lot, but, ultimately, it is fundamental for the present of the country and especially for its future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u55	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to point 3 of the agenda, motions. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u56	We proceed to the debate in an inclusive manner by means of a motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and one from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the candidatures of the heritage that obtain international recognition Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Queixas Zas, on the management to be held by the Galician Union in connection with the presentation of the candidature of the Holy Ribeira the heritage of humanity by UNESCO
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u57	The two amended motions of the People's Parliamentary Group were introduced.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u58	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u59	Mr. President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you in this -- at least here -- cool tomorrow. I have to admit we're all going through a lot of cold. I also appreciate the presence of the advisor here, who I don't know if he has to leave, but, well... if he has to leave... it's all the same, don't worry, that they'll tell him later. All right. We came back here, after the appeal to the Culture Councillor last June, on this occasion, we, of course, thought, from the PSdeG, with a proposed motion. It's his only intention. A proposed motion that we intend to be taken constructively; that is our purpose only, especially because we believe that a roadmap is needed, not only for the candidacy of the Sacred River the heritage of humanity, but for the rest of the other candidatures that also await their turn, which, as you know, are that of Ancares-Somiedo, which was launched in 2007, also that of the Iron of Illustration in the same year, and, last and most recent, in 2018, the National Park of the Atlantic Islands-Cyesian Islands. If you could take a look at our motion, which is an extensive motion, you'll see that it's structured into two blocks, and, as I say, one is for all the candidatures that await that recognition and another specific for the Sacred Ribeira. Why? Well, because in the PSdG we keep thinking things didn't work out well, at least not all the good that should have been done, and we're afraid that if we keep acting the same way. Because in the PSdG we are very concerned about this matter for two questions, leaving aside the impact on the expectations of the people of the Sacred River, despite the fact that it is denied by the Greek Government -- we know it, and also by the People's Group -- the lack of dialogue with the social fabric, with the cultural fabric there and even with the institutional representatives. As I said, the first of those issues has to do with the own justifiable reports, and the second, with the present -- which is what matters most -- and the near future of the Sacred Ribeira. And of all I'm going to say, I also suppose we'll understand our motion. Two major deficiencies have led to the candidacy or withdrawal of this candidacy promoted a few years ago by the Councillory of Culture itself. The first of these shortcomings was that the integration of hugs into the landscape -- Icomos' report said -- it's not well explained, it's not well justified. And that doesn't mean it's a reason for exclusion, but it's simply not well motivated or justified about the existence of these four coronations in the area. And, on the other hand, he was also talking about the deficiencies in the historical account of the process of sacralization and the passage into private hands after the demortization of Mendizábal. And he said that story has very important lagoons. Of course, it seems to us something unthinkable that can only result from the lack of real interest of the Galician Union in this candidacy. That's why we're worried about the disillusionment of the Galician Council because it's not more vigilant with the research work and with the work they've done in the report of these contracted technical teams. But there are more disappointments, and those are the ones that really care about us, because if those justifiable reports can vary, they can be modified -- we hope that it will be so and we understand that it will be so, because we already know where to affect -- yes, there is another delight that, in our judgment, it is very important -- as I said -- because it talks about the present and the future. And we ask one question: while we wait for the relaunch of this candidacy, what plans do we have for The Sacred River? Is there any idea how we want to preserve it or how we want to develop it? It will answer the People's Group that yes, which we have recently published The Sacred Ribeira Landscape Action Plan -- at good time it also arrived -- and the eternal plan of the Sacred Ribeira. That Sacred Ribeira Plan that, as much as we insist from the PSdG on this camera, we don't have yet; we don't have, nor do we have the Lugo Deputy -- don't I know if Ourense has it? - And the municipalities don't have it either. I say that those plans must have at least a written script. We, of course, don't know him. The lines of action on these two plans? Rehabilitation of the Romanesque, some Romanesque, and the landscape. In fact, we think that rehabilitating architectural cultural heritage is more than necessary, but protecting the Sacred River is much more than that and it has to do with many more questions. It is to preserve the cultural and natural landscape in a global way, shield it from the tourist proposals that could degrade our heritage; to call, for example, interesting initiatives so that new people, who are marching in search of a better life, can develop some future activity on their land, from that land from which they never wanted to go; to recover the local offices, to make them economically sustainable; to use specific games to investigate the candidate areas; to ensure that forest restocking is not done with alien species, which is an environmental barbarism, which they know well is already happening. We repeat the saying here already in June, and it will be the only one we repeat: what have you done all this time? What actions have they put in place to take care of the heritage contours, to maintain the wine-growing activity and, therefore, the landscape, to promote non-invasive alien species, or to train, for example, the staff dedicated to tourism so that this, tourism, is sustainable and respectful of the environment? What did they do? I'll tell them: either little or nothing. And little or nothing has been done in the Sacred Ribeira, and little or nothing has been done about the other three areas or candidate places as well. That is why we with this motion demand that the Council of Galicia present to Parliament a timetable plan of action -- and we also know that the forecasts sometimes fail, but at least we have to have a timetable plan of action -- for the preparation of the projects of the pending candidatures of the declaration as the heritage of humanity in UNESCO. Obviously, there has to be something much more specific and already with much firmer dates for the Sacred Ribeira. But we also want -- although the process is going to be extended over the next few years -- to know what steps to take with a stable schedule for the rest of the candidatures. That's why we think that this calendarized action plan should, of course, contain consensus on the model and promote with the population, institutions and local cultural and socio-economic agents. And what we're saying is very important. We didn't make the same mistake as with the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira, which was drawn up, I don't know if from behind but, of course, it wasn't prepared with its neighbours. And as much as the German Government insists, and as much as the Popular Parliamentary Group insists, this candidacy, the document, the strategy, the proposal, they don't know her anymore, not the people of the Holy Ribeira, nor do they know her in the municipalities; no one knows her specifically. It is also important to involve this population in the tourism model; a tourist model that must have qualification and training programmes for all staff, and in particular the staff from there who want to devote themselves to this, dedicated to the care of visitors in all sectors affected by tourism. It must also include programs for recovery, rehabilitation and restoration of cultural heritage, but also natural. You must also -- and you will understand that this is also very important -- a rigorous study on the level of burden of visitors that the territory and heritage can bear, without any significant deterioration on it. In this sense, it is essential to take special care of access to all heritage elements with the appropriate scale to the territory. The latter means: to place first the heritage value of the good or place that the access of its visitors to it. And I'm talking, for example, about the case of St. Peter of Esgos, an inexplicably justified example by the Councillor of Culture in this parliamentary chamber, where the most important is that hordes of tourists go up to see the monastery, when walking 300-400 meters perfectly they could access; but it's not that buses can turn around in front of the monastery itself. And finally, this plan for the four candidatures that we propose should also establish periodic control mechanisms and specific counselling pathways -- and this is very important -- to the councils on tourist, constructive, environmental and heritage actions that can be harmful to the affected territory. We are simply talking about establishing coordination mechanisms. With regard to the project of the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira, in our motion, what we propose is to keep the population of the Sacred Ribeira permanently informed, as well as its local entities, cultural and socio-economic agents and deputies on the new strategy of the candidacy. To keep the population informed, there are a lot of information channels that can be launched, particularly through the municipalities. Again -- we insist -- make public before the end of this year the Sacred River Plan, the Cultural Landscape Management Plan, and report in detail to the municipalities and the Members concerned of the actions and investments that are supposed to develop until 2023, by specifying the source and the budgetary destination for each exercise. I think this is the fifth time we've brought this here. If there isn't, which is what we're afraid of, we call for a strategic plan to protect the area and plan its development in all its aspects in a harmonised manner. We also want to promote active policies about the entire heritage of the Sacred Ribeira. And finally, boosting the Winter Road by encouraging the creation or rehabilitation of enough infrastructures that make it attractive and accessible. So far, it's our motion about -- as I say -- not only from the candidacy of the Sacred River, but also to predict not what happened to the latter, or to the other three, and get us to work from now on. Of course, for that, the People's Party will have all our collaboration. And I want to finish -- I know that if I'm done with time -- with just one desire, and it's the wish that UNESCO this week will decide that the natural space formed by the Sacred Ribeira and the Iribio and Courel saws will be declared a biosphere reserve. Of course, we couldn't stand another failure in this regard. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Mercedes Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u61	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good morning. In fact, in last July we questioned in this chamber the Councillor of Culture about what we qualify for in the BNG, after a delay and careful reading of the Icomos report, such as the failure to process the candidacy of the Sacred River the heritage of humanity, which had been driven by the board of Galicia. In that explanation we put a number of questions, for which I have to say we haven't got an answer from the counselor. We were asking about this lack of information on the process of processing this application. A candidacy that had generated the highest expectation in the Sacred Ribeira, right, but we can also say that in the country as a whole. We were asking for that signature; for whom was that person or group responsible for preparing this application; for that tendering and adjudication process, if there were, because we did not get that information; for how much it cost the public era precisely to develop that candidacy; for whom would assume technical and political responsibilities -- because we understand that there were -- ; for which investments were made, etc. I insist that we continue today without getting those answers. We also wondered that it was from that so announced and so cherished Strategic Plan of the Sacred Ribeira, and neither at the beginning of summer nor now that we're on our way to finish it, we can't get that information either. A lack of information, a lack of transparency, a silence which has been quite common and which is still being practised with this honourable Member because I have not yet received the request I made through Article 9 so that we can be guided by Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I'll keep waiting or I'll keep asking as many times as necessary. In that plenary, the advisor said, "The truth is, I'm sorry that you don't trust this proposal." Obviously, we will say once again, and all that is needed, that we do have confidence in what the Sacred River represents. We are -- they know it -- people of law, people of very good faith; but also what I'm saying now, once again, is that in politics, the difference from religion, it's not justified to talk or believe what you don't see. What has been advertised these days since the beginning of the month was an act of the Sacred Ribeira Landscape Action Plan, by the way, that has already been announced -- we've followed this sequence of ads and headlines -- a year ago, specifically in October 2020, when the Environmental, Territorial and Vivenda Councillor stated textually -- in what says the press release of his office -- that "the candidacy of the heritage of humanity of the Sacred Ribeira will be decided by 2020-2021, and I'm sure it's going the right way." We trust that other predictions of the advisor have a better term, really, or that instead of predicting, try to run ads with greater speed. By the way, the objectives that also mark in this press release on this plan are not very convinced that they help change the criteria of UNESCO and Icomos, because it seems that they are only based, so it is stated, on developing a new design of the image of the Sacred River, a new signage or the improvement of information to visitors. And if it is true that I add another point that would be very important, but that, of course, I contradicted the policy that is leading the Government of the People's Party in forest matters, such as the eradication of invasive plants and reconnection with native species. Obviously, now the only thing that fits into the Union is to focus on plan B, on that second alternative, which is to lower ambition and expectations when applying to the Sacred Ribeira only the reservation of the biosphere. An option that they well know is much softer, with very little protection capacity, to compensate for what seems to be a lack of will to expand something that is being demanded even by the European Union, such as the enlargement of the Natura 2000 Network. Well, this summer's certainty has been clarifying the reasons for this strategic settlement, we don't know if it's agreed, conditioned or interfered with by the government itself. It doesn't seem random that to take Galicia aside -- sorry to say so -- they can agree with the People's Party and the Socialist Party. In that tune we saw very few days after the last full-time celebration such as the wedding to the Greek step, which was intuitable, if confirmed when the councillor parabenified the mayor of Madrid -- as it cannot be otherwise -- for having achieved what in the entire heritage field, in the days before, even if he qualified as an impossible mission. The Madrid candidacy of humanity's so-called "country of light" reached a good port, which we rejoiced at, and the counselor, of course, congratulated him on his social networks: "You came to that moment because you have done a great job that has finished bearing fruit." A whole implicit self-criticism between lines that shows precisely what the Government of Greece did not well: to do a good job that would lead to good fruit. The summer has unfortunately given some of the reason why not the report of Icomos to the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira the heritage of humanity. There are reasons that have clearly left to be discovered the deprotection and the high level of vulnerability with which the Sacred Ribeira is covered, and that they really condition to determine something that is fundamental: the unique essential value of this environment. First, we saw him in the fires, of course, as the recent Ribas de Sil, which affected three municipalities included precisely in the territory of the Sacred Ribeira: the Ribas de Sil, Quiroga and the Poor Brollon. The first two, in addition, know well that together with Folgoso do Courel are the Xeoparch Mountains of Courel; yes, officially recognized by UNESCO within the World Geoparks Network. As far as we know, there is no special plan to protect against fires in the Sacred Ribeira; in case there exists, of course, it has just been well confirmed once again that it does not work. The only one who saved such an important area naturally from the total disaster was, as always, that fall of temperatures and the arrival of rain. As if an effective and efficient forest policy rains from the sky. Secondly, the concoctions, which we well know were arguments against that statement. And they were also now protagonists when they emptied artificial but also interested in hydroelectric companies we didn't have enough water nearby to put out such a bloody fire with our natural environment. And thirdly, a new wind threat; new because it is already real and present in the vicinity of the Sacred Ribeira, as the report of Icomos ratified last June. Literally it says, "The visual impact of the mills makes it difficult to design the territory as a unit... they pose a visual obstruction to appreciate the link between monasteries and rivers, or they are these factors that affect the territory and that should not be allowed within the boundaries of an area eligible for human heritage." I insist that I read Icomos' report. We must remember that two wind farms are already operating in the Sacred Ribeira and that a new threat is now being spread with that new macroeconomic announcement fragmented into five parks. Two of the alternatives formulated must be highlighted that they are between seven and ten wind turbines within the BIC buffer zone. The evidence therefore obliges us to put ourselves in the present, indeed, with a constructive and proactive pursuit, because that is the future and they are the foundations of the future that we have to build. The present is that The Sacred Ribeira is absolutely, of course, a territory of values sufficient to be considered the heritage of humanity. But you need this report or this proposal for a recast. This refusal, indeed, was a very bad news, which must help us to reflect on how the candidacy was managed and how it went forward. A work that clearly became explicit that was incomplete, lacking the necessary rigour and deserved the greatest effort and collective synergies. And that's why our motion collects a sum of proposals contrasted with the specialized groups, with local entities and heritage study that aim to contribute to the necessary revision of this candidacy in a broadly participatory way. In the last plenary session, the councillor also said that -- and I quote textually -- "you have to correct, you have to evaluate, you have to reconfigure." Here is therefore our proposal to achieve these objectives, which is part of the need to remedy the errors and to resume the proposal from a choral implication to: to review in depth and in a critical manner both the candid candid candid candid candidature presented before UNESCO and the negative response from Icomos to achieve these objectives, which is part of the need to remedy the errors and to resume the proposal from a choral implication to: to review in depth and in a critical manner both the candid candid candid candidature submitted before UNESCO and the negative response from Icomos, by strengthening the working team with people of contrasted experience; to make an assessment of the budget which has been invested so far; to remove responsibilities; to establish a new budget for the approach to this reform of this reformulation that we now need to re-make; to open up a process of inclusive participation process with all sectors involved in that are finally able to obtain that declaration; to undertake an impact assessment and communication network of large industrial structures and communication; and those that are expected to apply. they; and develop something fundamental, and develop something fundamental, a plan of management and accountability, a plan for the management and use of the resources and use of the resources and use of the resources and uses of the resources and the resources of the resources and of the resources and of the resources and of the UNESCO, and of the resources and of the resources and of the resources provided, and uses of the resources, and of the resources and of the resources and of the resources made made and of the UNESCO, and uses of the resources, and of the United, and of the resources, and of the resources, and of the resources, and uses of the resources, and the resources and uses, and uses, and uses of the resources made made made by has has has has has has has has has has has has has has has made to make has has made made to make and uses, and uses, and uses, has has has has has made made to make and uses, has has made to make us us us us us us us us us us has made to make has has has has has has has has made to make has has has has has has made to make has has has made to make has made to make us us us us us us us us us has has has has has has has has has has made to make implement, has has has has has has has has has has has has has made implement, and implement, and has has has made Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u63	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. This morning he came to Parliament leaving Sober, passing through Panton, through Monforte, through Savinjao, through Chantada, five of the twenty-five municipalities that make up the candidature of the Sacred Ribeira the world heritage. Five municipalities governed by different colors but that we fully share hope in our future. A future that we see prosperous, essentially linked -- although not exclusively -- to tourism and also to viticulture. Today it's being evaluated -- as it has already been said -- in addition to that candidacy to the reservation of the sacred Ribeira biosphere, the Oribio and Courel greenhouses. A candidacy in which we trust, just as we fully trust the candidacy and the possibilities of the Sacred River as the heritage of humanity. Because in the territory, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this issue is concerned, unity is practically absolute. A unit that has been shown from the very first moment and which is one of the main strengths of this candidacy. That's why they are very surprised at the initiatives of the BNG and the Socialist Party, who are trying to sow doubts and who are even looking for weaknesses where there are no them. But it's even more surprising, ladies and gentlemen, because there's no such difference in the territory; it turns out that neither the municipalities governed by the Block nor the PSOE, nor the deputies, nor the whole population disagreed on how things went forward. That's why I have to tell them that I am greatly surprised, because it's because even the ambassador himself before UNESCO -- that, as I know, he didn't name the PP, but he named it the PSOE -- he agrees on how the things were taken and the great strength that this candidacy has. That's why I have to tell you that as a group we regret, but honestly -- and Mrs. Noa who has her roots in the Sacred Ribeira should understand -- how neighbourly I feel terribly sad that this unity in the territory can't have her in this parliament, simply because anything is worth going against the People's Party. Too bad, ladies! [[Applause]] And it's just that in addition to that desire to go and everything goes against the People's Party, they don't even agree. They're still in time for rectification. That's why we tabled an amendment with total humility, with the only intention of reaching an agreement so that it would be seen that there is the same consensus as the population here. Because the motions you're presenting today, one out of two, or you haven't found out about anything you were doing in the last five years -- which I think is serious -- or, what's worse -- and I hope that's not so -- are you presenting them with bad faith, just with a partisan use. Some of you, the opposition as a whole, here aims to show that the strategic arrangement that has been made is a total failure. The block said, "It's something I've never seen." Well, look, gentlemen: it's not like this, it's something that's done quite normally, and recently made Prosecco in Italy, and today it's already a world heritage, or even in Spain they've done it to the Talaiotic Menorca or the Priory in Tarragona. And when the Galician Union and the Central Government together -- because, I insist, it's a decision that has been taken together -- they decide to make a strategic settlement, they do it because before the Icomos report -- hard?, yes; surprising?, too, for everyone amazing -- they decide that it's worth taking some time and talking to Icomos, talking to all the people involved, and presenting a proposal with absolute certainty. Because that report from Icomos -- which I was saying is hard -- has a part that can be valuable -- that we can agree with or not agree with -- but everybody agrees that they have serious mistakes, like talking about ten cheers when there's only three, or talking about areas in the Sacred River that have aerogerators, when it's not. And that's not what the People's Party says, that's also what the Socialist Party ambassador says: "The Ambassador to UNESCO points out serious mistakes in the Icomos Report on the Sacred Ribeira," July 27, 2021. [[Mrs. Arias Rodríguez shows the House a photocopy.]] Because preferring a static territory or an evolving one is something subjective and what we'll have to talk to Icomos about. But -- as I was saying -- changing what's there and what's not there, that's a mistake we have to make you see it's not like that. And although Icomos' report is not binding, this arrangement gives us time to improve that candidacy. And in the territory we understand it perfectly; but the population understands it, the politicians understand it, they understand it, because we understand it is something that benefits the Sacred Ribeira, Galicia and Spain. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is Spain's candidacy for the world heritage, where we all work together. And so what we have to do in the next few days is work together, see that it's what we can improve -- that there will be things we can improve -- to explain what seems to us to be misunderstood and to defend those aspects that we don't share with Icomos. Finally, it strengthens the candidacy and enables UNESCO to understand that what is already done in the territory, in fact, has remaining velocities to see UNESCO, too, and so will it. There are many factors that play for us. One of them is that the Spanish Historical Heritage Council had agreed that Spain does not present new candidatures until within five years, which shows that they have full confidence in the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira. As far as we can see, everyone has more confidence than the opposition in this chamber. Anyway, there you are! Since the Block, Mrs. Mercedes Complaints referred to something that I find regrettable and that I hope you correct in your second intervention. Because I find it almost outrageous or at least unbelievable to overcome the possibility that the Sacred River is the heritage of humanity to an incendiary criminal terrorist act. I think it's a barbarity you mentioned here. That's why I hope you pull him out. As you come to this point it's just as incredible that socialists and nationalists are much more critical to the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira than is the Icomos himself. For example, while Icomos praises the work done on planning, coordination and protection, the socialists say that there was nothing about this, and the Block says we have to start with zero. Another example: Icomos values the BIC statement that was made in 2018, and BNG asks it to start again. Yes, whether you take all the allegations that were made on your day, whether they are relevant or not, claims have been made and those have to be taken. Because according to PSOE and BNG there is a need for dialogue, coordination, opening participatory processes. It's like until now the report was made because someone had put himself in San Caetano there in a closed place, had he been able to write what was agreed upon and had no contact with anyone. Well, ladies, nothing further from that. Those of us who live in the territory know perfectly well. Up to thirty-six meetings with associations, with all groups of different municipalities, with all entities, with entrepreneurs, with neighbors; thirty-six meetings. Just as when the BIC was made, after the meetings with all the parties involved, thirty allegations were made. And of those 30 allegations, 80 % or more were accepted in whole or in part. In addition, as a result of these allegations and requests made, the heritage of the Romanesque of the Sacred Ribeira as BIC is being added. So, that there was no involvement, that they were not heard is something that is in their minds, but that obviously the people involved do not perceive it as such. It was also mentioned that there was no transparency. Well, I've already explained all the transparency that was so far. The same transparency as when we decided to speed up the nomination. So, first, he introduced himself at the same time, he made himself public at UNESCO headquarters between the Spanish ambassador and the councillor. But the next day, just a day later, the councillor was meeting with all the mayors in the area, with all the mayors involved to explain it to them. And soon to the members of the UNESCO Committee. And when you questioned the counselor, he already explained to them that if there is a calendar to move on. In the coming weeks, meeting with the ministry and with Icomos, also expanding the nomination advisory committee, to strengthen it, to enrich it with new technical profiles. And from January, I've already started working on the details of that candidacy. But that dichotomy between what you say is all fatal, fatal, fatal, and Icomos, which was very hard, that puts value to the great majority of the presentation, because that dichotomy is also seen in the Landscape Management Plan The Sacred River. By the way, if BNG has it, if it's delivered under Article 9; then it doesn't come to anything to say here that you don't. And if you've given them up, it exists. Just like it was handed over to UNESCO, and Icomos stands up as saying that this report is key. A plan, ladies and gentlemen, which has EUR 32 million up to the year 2023 and which in many respects, such as the protection of heritage, has exceeded all forecasts. They are already finished or in works, for example, at the school of the Cardinal in Monforte, Santo Estevo de Ribas de Mineño, Santo Estevo de Atán, Pombeiro's rectoral, San Juan de Portomarín, San Xiao de Lobios, San Pedro de Rocas, Santo Estevo de Ribas de Sil, Santa María de Junqueira, and so on. A plan that you don't see, a plan that you don't know about. They go through the Town Councils, because they don't know him about the paper, there are works in his Town Councils. Go see the Town Councils! Sometimes it's very interesting to get out of this Chamber and be in touch with the people of the territories. They also request in their motions to promote active policies over all the heritage of the Sacred Ribeira. It is forgotten that the Interdepartmental Commission has already been set up, the Heritage Territories Forum, which conducted training activities, which promoted scientific research on the universal value of the cultural landscape of the Sacred Ribeira. And they also specifically ask to enhance the Winter Road. And I'm just gonna stop here for a minute. Because maybe it was interesting that you at this point had spoken to the mayor of Monforte, president of the Lugo Parliament, who, emulating the mayor of Vigo, not only did nothing for the Way, but put stones on his way so that he wouldn't end up in the city. In spite of that, in 2020 and 2021, EUR 1.7 million has been invested for road signs. Also at the end of this year will open your doors the first public hostel in a place, Mrs. Díaz, which you know well, in Diomondi. One million euros, which also served to fix a BIC. And this same weekend -- that's what you say there's nothing done about the Way -- the XVIII edition of the Winter Road Scientific Days, sponsored by the Galician Union. And speaking of the last activities there was, because by putting one last case to say that just in mid-August there was presented in Monforte a book on photographs of the Way, in which, by the way, I did not see or miss the representatives of the PSOE and the Block in the neighborhood. And now, Mr President, because I have to tell you that those of us who live every day in the territory know that in recent years in the Holy Ribeira there has been a turning point. That's why we are supporting what the Galician Union is doing in collaboration with the Government of the State, in collaboration with the municipalities of the territory, with the deputies, with the associations and with civil society. And also with the ambassador of UNESCO, who just stated a few days ago that this candidacy has quality, intensity and is well established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Bloc and PSOE in this parliament, they don't stay behind, you're not the only ones who don't trust a candidacy in which we all work hand in hand. We give the neighbors, the neighborhood, the image that politicians must give, what politics serve. We give them that image of unity that they already have, that they see that we also work here for them and for them, that they are the one we owe. That is why I ask them if they do not want to support our initiative, we have already presented to them a proposal to compromise the amendment we tabled, and we are ready to continue to negotiate so that a unanimous agreement will be reached here and that everyone can see clearly and strongly that we believe in the Sacred Ribeira and the candidature of the Sacred Ribeira the world heritage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u65	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u66	Thank you, Mrs Arias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u67	Thank you, President. Mrs. Arias, if you intend to confuse Greek citizenship with your intervention -- we understand particularly the people who live on the Sacred River in this case -- our proposal knows that it is not only for the candidacy of the Sacred Ribeira, but also for the other three, but we're going to talk about the Sacred Ribeira. I think it has to be clear from the very first moment, as much as you try to confuse in an exercise of argumental simplification, in addition to the arguments of the others, not of theirs, because if it was not clear, in the PSdG we trust, that it remained manifest -- not in vain our councils and the Deputation of Lugo itself are very behind this candidacy -- in the excellences of the Holy Ribeira, in the need to launch this candidacy. For us, where there will be no unity is in the way of proceeding, because this was a real chapuza, and you know it. They're talking about the Government of Spain. The Government of Spain knows perfectly well that these are matters of institutional loyalty, and the Government of Spain, the technicians... the other day the councilman at the last plenary, when we talk about this question, said: the technicians of the ministry. Ministry technicians validate an issue of institutional loyalty. But where the report of this candidacy is made, it's here in Galicia, endorsed by the German Government. Don't try to confuse, don't confuse. Look, there's a unit. Of course there is unity in that recognition, but there is no unity in the way it was carried out. We must have different interlocutors and interlocutors, very different. I'm telling you, it's very different. I don't know what councils and what deputies you're talking about. Of course, I know what I'm talking to, and not just mayors. Unfortunately, there are more mayors of the People's Party in that area than socialists, you know, too, but if that's the way -- sorry, I'm talking to Mrs. Arias, I'm addressing her --. [[Interruption.]] I mean, we also talk to the voices and voices of those municipalities where we don't rule. You don't have the information you say, nor are you in tune with it. I don't know what associations, but now that you've said so: thirty-six meetings in five years. Well, I'll ask you soon because I want you to pass the minutes of those meetings and know who they met with. Because I'm telling you that the interlocutors and the interlocutors must not be the same. There were no such meetings. You speak of the lack of unity in this parliament because of the constant spirit of opposition to confront. No, you're the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the With this transaction proposal, a proposed transaction of a brochure that presented the BNG and the two that we presented, they want to simplify it, and also with phrases such as: to continue... to continue... to continue... to continue, to continue... No, it's not that it's going on, it's starting up; some of the issues we've raised is to start thinking about them. [[Mrs. Díaz Varela shows the House a written leaflet.]] We know, one of the points you're proposing is to have a technical meeting with Icomos. Welcome! We know, the counselor said it, it's his job. I don't have to urge them to work, we don't have to do it from the PSdG, and we're not going to do it like that. [[Applause]] I repeat: don't confuse. We criticize how this whole process has been carried out; we do not criticize the candidacy. And we also want to insist a lot on two more issues that you put here of relief. One is 34 million. It speaks of this Sacred Ribeira Plan, which is already taking steps to rehabilitate the cultural heritage. Perfect, but I'm asking, those 34 million, what exactly? If the plan ends in 2023 and it started in 2019, we'll have to know what each of these actions are, what budget splits it's about, what would you advise are those that have these budget splits. We don't know anything at all. The municipalities themselves understand when the board reports that they will rehabilitate one of their churches or the Romanesque heritage they have there. And you know it's like that. Then don't confuse yourself, please. You also spoke, which makes me most funny, of the Interdepartmental Commission of the Sacred River. I myself, a few weeks ago, presented a battery of questions precisely for this Interdepartmental Commission. What is this about setting up committees or making them effective? How many times did he meet and for what? Because we can be creating commissions and creating commissions, but if they have no work later, they're no use at all. They're toast to the sun, which is what's happening. [[Applause]] So we have, of course, maintained this proposal. I don't know if there'll be a chance or if we can get a deal. We proposed another transaction on yours, on your proposal. We understand that what you proposed completely denaturalizes the intent of our proposal, which was nothing more than a proposition. You told me you can't assume most of our motion because it's already being done. Well, if it's done, let it go. If it's already done, if all that we say is done, I don't understand why they refuse anything. It's exactly the same as the Icomos technicians' meeting. If you do, we assume that we can put that on paper. Well, you also leave if all these actions that we propose can stay on paper, perfect. But if they refuse and try to avoid that management plan, that usage plan, etc., it will be because maybe there's not so much done. The question is that all these mistakes are going to lead us to have to wait and re-submit the Greek candidacy, with the others, besides, also waiting. And we repeat that our biggest concern is until that candidacy really works, and we are sure it will be, because the Sacred River deserves to be the heritage of humanity. But in the meantime, is there any concrete plan for the Sacred Ribeira, to protect it from the bad decisions that can be made from private individuals to other institutions, also going through the Council of Galicia? We don't think so. So they are necessary, to ensure success, and we have a lot of focus on this: strategic plans for socio-economic, cultural and tourist development according to quality standards. It's not enough to introduce us to a prize, it's not enough, we have to go together and make efforts and get involved in strict commitments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u69	...is quantifiable. I repeat, that's the only way we'll be sure of success. Let me make it clear, please, that we have supported this candidacy since the PSdeG. And in this case, the lady of the People's Party must be told not to try to confuse her because she's not like you just commented on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u71	Congratulations, Mr. President. Mrs Arias, I believe that we must carry out a minimal exercise of honesty as parliamentarians and democratic honesty, and that when we answer above all we show that we have heard beforehand what the precedent said. Of course, you've issued here valuations and accusations that were at all in my mouth, and you'll probably have a chance to see them later in the Media Library. [[Applause]] It's important that we don't just read what we have written, doing a calculation exercise, but -- I insist -- let's practice listening, active listening. So, in the thread of this kind of situation and contextualization, it's easy to understand that when you talk about there's so much dialogue, that there's so many meetings, what's at heart are invitations to be present as stone guests. But then you don't hear or receive anything at all. This is the concrete and very practical demonstration of what has happened in the course of this Culture Council and this government. I don't know what it means I've received the report I asked for. No, what I've received is the report of Icomos, which I had already read more than because it was public domain in all the media. I'm still waiting, which is what I've really asked for, which is the report to the candidacy you've drawn up as a government and sent. That's what I want to read to actually have all the evaluation to be able to counter it objectively. I'm still waiting for this reception. It's understood that what you did was not a strategic approach, it was an appraiser of self-assessment that was very necessary and a strategy of misinformation and de-sponsiveness, in which you are now shielding yourself by self-exculpation and inculpation of others. That way, of course, we cannot move forward and we cannot help build this candidacy the heritage of humanity. I really trusted that today I took this opportunity to make a necessary self-criticism, especially to reach those points of consensus, because it is certainly very easy because we are starting from the same base, that indeed the Holy River deserves this recognition. It was the will and it is the will because our amendment has many points to do exactly that. There will be time to open up the time that we need to walk in another direction, which Icomos' report said had to be rectified. And I think it's okay to do it. Let me say we're the beginning of a course, after twenty-five years as a teacher, I can't help but remember these always new days of access to classes. I always told my student that I shouldn't be afraid, nor should I worry about not knowing. So if you have to worry, it's when someone refuses to learn or relearn. That's the serious problem I really hope they don't hide in the People's Party because they have a lot of responsibility on this issue. Now you were talking about your commitment to declare BIC, for example, all the Romanesque of the Sacred River. Very welcome! Indeed, it is a very demanding and very needy proposal, but we also ask them why they have not already taken up those allegations at the time, when they have been transferred to them by many groups who are specialists in heritage work, especially in the Romanesque. [[Applause]] Why haven't you taken up those allegations yet? 'Cause maybe we were at another time. We already had a much more armed candidacy, with other values, with another unit, which was one of the great eels, and perhaps because we weren't in this situation of rejection of Icomos. So welcome to that proposal! But I insist: it could already be done. In any case, this new BIC statement, if you're not going to accompany a rigorous management plan -- excuse me for saying it like this -- it's useless, it's wet paper, it's smoke; it's not going to lead us anywhere either, especially the most important one: to the protection of the entire single entire heritage we have on the Sacred River. And by the way, I'm going to leave some evidence here too, because they're very obvious. We already have BIC, for example: San Paio de Abeleda or San Salvador de Asma, and we see totally damaged, abandoned, closed spaces, without the possibility of knowledge and cultural recognition of the Greek society, or, of course, of whom you want to visit them. It is an absolutely abandoned heritage being an asset of cultural interest. I mean, that's the demonstration of what this label represents for the People's Party. Or even more: very recently, the Vicinal Association of Vilachá de Salvadur is demanding that, please, they pay attention and commitment above all explicit to the medieval cellars as the unique heritage element of the Sacred Ribeira, which, by the way, are also declared BIC and, however, are absolutely left by their hands. I mean, sometimes one gets to think that you think we have too much wealth, that we can afford the luxury of leaving the road or letting a part of it die, because total stones have plenty. It's an exercise of maximum simplification, but that really, when you go through the territory, when you get to know him and recognize him, this is the conclusion: a majority abandonment. I told the councilman in September that we're going to start working, the joint technicians, the government technicians, the Icomos technicians. It's just that we have one of the keys, one of the evas: by the time they call the neighborhood, the local authorities, the collectives who work in heritage? It is that they are always forgetting about it, which is from the foot society, which is the one that builds and rebuilds; the society that in this case guards for the protection of heritage. She's an ejacist they keep falling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u73	...I don't know whether or not intentionally. It's over, Mr. President. Icomos reported -- I said it in the interpellation and I repeat it now -- the absence of a heritage policy on the part of the People's Party that really aims to protect and put into value our heritage. That's right, you like it or you don't like it. Of course, we don't like it. And I think it's the best time just to make a turning point. The Union has to clarify, moreover, whether this declaration of humanity's heritage is an objective in itself or is a means of developing this region in a sustainable way and trying to protect it from excessive tourism, which we know always leads to the deterioration of the environment. Don't keep giving yourself up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u75	... -- finished already, Mr. President -- they begin to reformulate the historical account to give coherence to another that involves the heritage elements with the local population. That's why -- we insist -- it's so necessary for this master plan to be developed in a clear management plan, which knows citizenship to involve itself in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u77	...and where the protagonist is the local population, which, after all, was the one who brought our heritage, kept standing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xose Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia regarding the environmental and productive reactivation of the Pontevedra River and the empowerment of the Greek forest sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u79	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u80	Good morning. Watch this photograph carefully. It's a 70-year-old picture of a true paradise. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a photograph in size A-three.]] I don't know if it was earthly paradise, but it's a real paradise. It's Lourizán's laugh, Pontevedra's laugh. Today there is here with us a woman who has known this sea, who has sailed in canoe by this sea surrounded by dolphins -- dolphins, as they call it there -- which has swimd by the clean waters of this sea. That woman, who wanted to come here today to this debate, who is seeing her in the Fontán Sunday room, is 88 years old, full of vitality and hope, by the way. And we want to symbolize today in this woman, in Leonor González Nene, the struggle of hundreds of thousands of people, starting with the seamstresses of Lourizán, who opposed the bayonets of the Spanish Navy, and also the thousands of young men and girls who are still shouting: "Ence out of the river!""The laugh is ours and not the cellulose!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Thank you, Nene, for your struggle and for your example. Yesterday was September 13, and I don't know if they realized because yesterday they were celebrated -- if you can use this word -- the fifty-eight years of the opening by the chief of state, then dictator, of the Lourizán factory. And that was a historic mistake and a huge environmental attack, the establishment of Ence manu militari of Pontevedra's stream in that paradise that I showed them. It's been fifty-eight years and we're in a new time, in a different time, although there's someone who doesn't want to be buried, who still lives petrified in the past, who doesn't want to pass page. Something recently happened that marked one before and one after, which was the verdict of last July's National Audience, which says a very clear thing: "He has to get out of the stream of Pontevedra." It's so clear and powerful. And you know why this sentence says Ence has to get out of the creek? Because we have to apply the 2013 People's Party's Back Law. I mean, I don't know what laws you passed, but it was the People's Party law that said you had to get out of the creek. And you blame him for what I don't know. And that sentence also says you approved an illegal extension in 2016. So what are we talking about? And in the face of this sentence, what is the reaction of the Board? First of all, they were a little untidy, unattended, caught with their feet changed. Then you make statements to Mr. Conde's press: "Conde reduces to a fictitious debate the transfer of the Cence from the Pontevedra River because you are unsavory," a statement of July 14, 2021. On July 20, 2021, six days later: "The board is inclined by a new education of Ence to ensure employment. Count opens the door to transfer and requests the Government to have European funds for its viability." But what kind of seriousness do you have, that in six days change your mind? But then they had a misunderstanding, because, of course, they gave them the orders. Mr. Feijóo arrived and ordered him to stop. And then Mr. Rueda became the spokesman for the Numantine Defence Position of the Lingus Permanence of the River, which is a position absolutely out of reality, but above all, that is an illegal position. You're going to the mountain, and you're going to the mountain, too, to other groups that are using violence, as we've seen in recent months. You are insubmission and disobedience to judicial judgments. And why does the People's Party strive to defend illegality? Well, there's a lot of reasons for this -- some of them I'm not going to explain it now; they already refer to it other times -- but basically, for two questions: because the Board, Heel, Wheel, Count, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, act at the orders of the Madrid PP and want to use this matter to make opposition, to wear it off, and also want to make time, and they've already taught the Skate. They want to recover the Government of Madrid to try to change the law again and guarantee the permanence of Ence, the other day Mr. Conde said so, who proposed a legal amendment to guarantee that permanence. You know what this is called? It's called pre-va-ri-ca-tion. It's a prevarication like a cathedral. And you're still wrong that you're trying to make these fallouts. Aren't they enough of what they've done? And secondly, because the People's Party is fully committed and subject to the interests of Ence, but not of the workers of Ence, of the directors, of the entrepreneurs, of the IBEX of Ence, because Mr. Fexóo and Mr. Rueda act as shareholders of Ence, as delegates of Ence, as emissaries of Ence. This is what the rotating doors have, of course, should not surprise us. That's what you have the ease with which you, the People's Party, change the seats of the board of directors or the council of ministers by the chairs of the board of directors and other companies, and, of course, then you have to logically defend the interests that they put there, that for that they are. Well, we're in a new time, this is undoubtedly a new reality. This crisis has turned everything around, and what may seem like a problem can become a great opportunity. We are convinced that a debate can be opened, and, indeed, that the doors can be opened to a great transformation to the Pontevedra River, to the Pontevedra Town Hall, to the Marin Town Hall, to the Greek forest sector and to the Greek mountain as a whole. You can open a great opportunity. And in the face of this, the board can't stand up, it can't look the other way, it can't stand up. You can't say, as Mr. Rueda said on August 31st: Joining has no choice. But let's see, who are you? Well, Mr. Rueda said that the Board had no alternative, while Mr. Faixóo said that there was room for two paper factories in Galicia, for two papermakers, two pastries. But what kind of seriousness do you have? By the way, where do you want to put these two papermakers/pasteries?, in Lourizán, one on top of the other? Because if there's no more location... this is called political trilerism, and it has no other name. Well, Junta has to stop making opposition, which seems to be the best thing for her. In this case, he's been making opposition for years. And you have to put proposals on the table, because, in addition to being the Government of Greece, you have all the necessary competences: land management, industrial soil, industry, environment... here is no excuse for you to have no competence; you have all the competences, and you have to exercise as a government. And since you don't exercise as a government, BNG does. And that's why we make proposals, we put projects on the table, projects for the future, with vision and country ambition, because we want to make a big Galicia, not that little Galicia, which goes at least, that pretty Galicia of the People's Party. And that's why we bring these proposals. The first is that Junta has to get to work to develop this area of environmental and landscape improvement that provides for the Lourizán Coastal Management Plan, which says that the factory has to go out and that there must be a great performance to recover those lands. And that's none of the competences of the Union. We need to get to work together with the process of dismantling and recovering the land that has to be carried out and paid for the company, which has already earned enough in these years. Secondly, we propose the creation of a public-private consortium for the forest industry, for the creation of a large industrial complex, with public participation, and, above all, with participation by the Greek forest sector. And this is nothing new in Europe; this exists in countries that are forest pointers like Finland. We have a sector there that is willing to participate in that project. And we would have, with this great industrial project, one three in one: we would have a great cycle pastry factory, with cycles closing -- so, with a paper factory -- we could have a great industrial center for the transformation of wood into products that demand the market in the construction sector -- for example, in the textile sector, in the bioproducts sector, which are so demanded now on the market and have so much added value, which is what the economy of our country needs -- and, finally, a great centre also of research and innovation, but not any center; not, of course, what Ence wanted, but a center on the biodiverse mountain and the multifunctional mountain, because it's good that our mountain is at the service of two great multinationals. That's not our model. Finally, there is the debate about the placement, but this debate does not have to direct the company, I have to direct the Government of Greece, and I have to take charge of -- the study on this new placement -- to the system of knowledge of Greek; therefore, to universities and technology centers. Finally, we must evaluate the financing of all these processes with public funds, we do not deny this possibility. So, Ence is currently occupying 600,000 -- finished, president -- square meters of public domain, public land. I'm the equivalent of 100 football fields, a barbarity! That land is public, public domain, and it has to be public again. The company has already won enough, it has already made billions of euros of benefit there; it should return a part to the Greek society, at least. But now it's other times. Since the BNG we want to recover the sea, we want to recover the laugh, we want what's public to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u81	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u82	...public profit, for economic activity, because we have much to gain from these proposals, we have all to gain: justice, dignity, respect, health and future work for the river Pontevedra, future for Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u83	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u84	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We have started this session with a subject that is expected to focus the debate on this time, since it is not a minor issue. It's not a minor issue for Galicia, because we're talking about one of the most important industries in our country, and much less for my county, Pontevedra, since this industry involves the support of many families; families directly linked to the factory, but also families that are linked to it for being responsible for transport by sea or by land, or the suppliers of this raw material. I'm personally very worried. The situation, since the debate on the question that gave rise to this motion, has changed, has changed to the current situation, since we have moved from a situation of uncertainty to a judgment; a sentence which, although not firm, is set a precedent, since it lays down with complete legal rigour the legal impossibility of the pastry to continue in this location. And I say this because the judgment makes an interpretation of the law in which there is no kind of fissure, by stating that the occupation of the public domain of the sea-terrestrial has an exceptional character and that its admission must be extremely restrictive. It also mentions the judgment in which other competing interests of the company cannot prevail above the strict compliance with the legally provided requirements. And in addition, it emphasizes in its legal basis that it does not see, in the arguments or evidence presented by the company, need or justification for its permanence in the public domain of the sea-terrestrial. So by the content of this sentence, by its manifestation, it is necessary and urgent to put ourselves to work, and I say we work plurally because in that we all have to row in the same direction. The future of many families depends on this and must be above political interests. But, in addition, it is the Government of the Union that has to lead this work, because it has exclusive competence in the field of land management and industrial development. The Government of Feijóo has to focus, he can't continue to swing on such an important topic for Galicia. We can't tolerate it. [[Applause]] We cannot tolerate these continuous changes in position that lead to Feijóo in 2011, claiming that Ence had to abandon Lourizán in 2018, literally expressing his commitment to the transfer within the territory, despite -- he said -- to the difficulty of the project, or years later to succumb to the interests of a private company, to the point of modifying, when he ruled in the State, the 2013 Back Law or granting in 2016 an extension in a minute of discount and through the back door, conscious of its questionable legality. From these dusts come these muds, because with these actions concerned they left the company in a situation of legal insecurity that is having these results. They correct these mistakes in recent years, gentlemen of the People's Party, and return to the most sensible position, to their previous position. In addition, they have ceased this obstructive and follow-on stance that they are maintaining with the company, and that they have and have for a few weeks had the Vice Presidents of the Union, who have led them to make tremendously irresponsible and populist demonstrations, and I say populists for being gentle, because I resist thinking that the highest representatives of a government, the government of a democratic country, can consciously defend the failure to comply with the laws. They're very serious for a rule of law the demonstrations of Mr. Rueda and Mr. Count these last few weeks, in which they ask the Government not to comply with the law, not to find a sentence. Surprisingly, this People's Party Government is acting on this topic of Ence as well as Puigdemont or Junqueras with the process. Asking a government to act outside the law or not to find a sentence has a name in the Criminal Code, and it's called prevarication and disobedience. They're asking the state to act outside the law to benefit a company. We're in a rule of law, and they know it, and in a rule of law compliance is for everyone. They're still in this bandage policy. And in this bandage policy this weekend, Mr. Feijóo has once again changed his position in a new position which would seem more sensible to us, because he speaks of the possibility that the company will not stay and want to close, of the possibility of setting up another pastry in our territory, in our country. But this posture doesn't stay there, but Feijóo, in his attitude to say one thing and the opposite to which he has been immersed since the beginning of the pandemic -- I remember that of the alarm state, yes; alarm status, no-- now he also says that there is an alternative to Enc in Galicia. A pure contradiction. He says there can be a pastry in Galicia, but Ence can only be in Lourizan. Stop babbling, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, focus on the important thing, and the important thing is to keep jobs in our territory and the timber industry, because this is above any company, and that's what the Government of the Union has to make clear. So, I insist, go out of this nonsense where you're immersed and find a real alternative for Galicia; there can't be any other possible location for a pastry in a country full of water resources. From this premise, Ence could therefore not be in any other territory of the whole state and there could be no other pastors in the world. I insist, it's urgent; it's urgent to find a solution and guarantee these jobs in case the Supreme Court ratifys the judgement of the National Court. And that's why we from the Socialist Group are going to vote in favour of this motion. We also rejoice at the change of position of the nationalist group, which, at last, realizes the importance in our territory of the industrial sector and, above all, that it finally puts itself next to the workers of Ence, because the workers of Ence -- I remind you, Mr Bará -- are the same as those of Alcoa and those of the Bridges. And I appreciate it, too, therefore, that they stop criminalizing them, because, apart from totally reprehensible conduct, that we all know, and those I would name and name, but I'm not going to put them here, most of the laborers and workers in Ence are claiming their bread and deserve all our respect. [[Applause]] I'm finished stating that the state is committed to the continuing activity in Galicia, but legally, and that it will support it with all the instruments it counts with, and in this position there is also the entire PSdEG. Together, therefore, you have to negotiate with the company so you don't leave, or look for alternatives, because your management depends on the future of many families. Members of the People's Party and members of the Government are always alarmed that they have a great deal of confidence between the Greeks and the Greeks. From here I tell them not to let us down, and to stop populism and confrontation and work for the future of Galicia, that the future of Galicia goes through the maintenance of the industrial sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Santos Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mr Bará, gentlemen of the BNG, lords of the Socialist Party, what they've been asking for years to shout, "Ence out of the river," it seems they'll finally get it. As we all know, on July 16th, the day of the Virgin of Carmel, the patron of the sea, we received the news of the annulment of the extension of Ence; a sentence that will not be free, Mr Bará, and that will be the cost of leaving thousands of families in Pontevedra and throughout Galicia. We all know the persecution that since the BNG and the Socialist Party have about this company, insisting for many years on the closure of the Lourizán factory, always without providing alternatives to the said closure and not worrying at all what could happen to the thousands of workers and families who depend on it. The Socialist Party, once it reaches the Government of Spain, the first action it takes in order to facilitate the closure of the company was to proceed in the judicial proceedings by granting the extension of Ence at the National Audience, promoted, among others, by the Council of Pontevedra. It is absolutely unreasonable that the granting of the extension of Ence should be granted with the favourable reports of the State Counsel, and that the Socialist Party should no longer enter the Government of the State, before that same Law of the State of the Ministry, move on the appeal and leave without defending its own reports when it granted the concession. And this has only one reading, and it's a political decision by the government of the state that He was leaving Lourizán. What they really cared about was the closure of the factory, but for this, they used to claim pollution and security, and now, as they know that all this is guaranteed, just the current arguments they give are that they don't like to have this factory at that location. Nothing more, nothing more than this, regardless of, as I say, all the damage, direct and indirect, that this entails for all the workers of this industry. And I say pollution and security are guaranteed, because integrated environmental authorization has already been granted in 2008 by the two-party government. So you've already confirmed during your government that Ence was neither a dangerous nor a contaminating company. Because when they talk about trying to recover Pontevedra's hive, finding pollution problems in the river and public health problems and trying to improve the seafood and fishing banks, they draw attention to their own skills and municipal responsibilities, for example, with the discharges of sanitation, and that it must be the Junta of Galicia who makes the investments to solve all these problems. This pollution seems to be of no concern to them; it seems that these spills go to that sea, to that paradise, as you say, Mr. Bará, but this seems to him to mind. That pollution's not worth anything. We have already said on other occasions that we don't like the location of this company either, but in the current context of economic crisis, what is less interested at this time is their closure and leaving behind more than 5,000 families in Galicia. This is what you think and you also think of a large majority of the neighborhoods of Pontevedra and the region, that the location is not the best. So we all think the same thing, but after so many years there and knowing that the company is currently meeting all environmental and security parameters, what people don't understand is why they have to be unemployed all those workers, as you want. Both the Socialist Party and the BNG say that they support the Greek industries, when what they're proposing is to shut down industries in Galicia. You don't have the slightest sensitivity with all these workers who will be affected. [[Applause]] The news of the ruling of the annulment of the extension of Ence has filled both the leaders of the BNG and the Socialist Party with joy, and they have no doubt externalized that satisfaction. And what is the reason for your joy and happiness? Well, leaving more than 5,000 people out of work, of which 400 belong to the company's staff, 2,700 to contractors in the industrial, logistics and transport area, and more than 2,100 to the Greek forest sector; to many of our neighbours in Pontevedra, Marín, Sanxenxo, Poio... from all over Galicia. And what are the consequences, for example, for a municipality like mine, from Marin? For it will seriously affect the operation of the port. In the port of Marín there are many auxiliary and transport activities that depend solely on Ence, and can be irrecoverable. The traffic in paper pulp from Ence accounts for over 100 boats a year and over 120 trucks per each of those ships -- you do the math. It exports the entire production of its factory to Lourizán through the port of Marín, with an average of 400,000 tons a year; therefore, more than 20 % of total port traffic and 60 % of general goods traffic, which do not go into containers. And, in the face of this disaster to the port of Marín, the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority, decided to appear before the Supreme Court to defend the continuity of Ence in Lourizán. This decision was by most absolute majority, without the vote of the mayor of Pontevedra, who did not attend this meeting, and with the votes against the representatives of the Socialist Party in the so-called council, which shows again that the decision to close Ence is a political decision and that the port of Marín does not interest them either. So the consequences for the port of Marín are irreversible, but that's for the BNG and the Socialist Party, they don't care. And to the Pontevedra Town Hall, the only thing that interests you about the port is taxes, collecting the contributions of companies located there, taxes on economic activities, etc., etc.; nothing but recollection. I don't think you're aware of the reality of the damage that they're going to provoke with your responsibility in this closure of Ence. They will compromise the viability of numerous forest farms, timber brokerage companies, many transport companies, and the disappearance of many auxiliary service companies. Mr. Bará and Mrs. Castro, you've been analyzing the possibility of looking for another alternative location to the current one, and if you couldn't get it forward, it's because of the great complexity that you have to place a factory like that of Ence in our territory. This is already reflected in the report sent by the company Ence to the Ministry, where 441 possible locations were evaluated within the Sectoral Plan of Business Areas of Galicia. Of all those possible locations, nothing more than six would have little chance of being a possible one, but they don't meet all the necessary parameters. Parameters such as having a very high freshwater flow, a mass of water receptor to be able to assume the effluents, lots of lots of hectares with flat surface, with electric lines to import and export energy and, of course, to have a port near that location as well. And according to those reports, it would be impossible to deploy a new factory of these characteristics in our territory. That's the main problem in order to be able to give a solution to this issue, and without counting on the high cost that this would entail. And to clarify it, Mr Bará and Mrs Castro, which President Feijóo refers to with that second pastry, is the creation of a textile fibre factory from the cellulose, which is the project already proposed by the Council of Galicia in the next generation funds, which they should know. And that is not to produce folder as does the Ence; therefore, it would be quite simpler to its location. And if the Council of Pontevedra and the Government of the State doubt the reports that have been presented and see it so easily, then what they should do is to get to work with them and look for an urgent alternative already, because they're the only ones responsible for creating this problem, and they're the ones who have to find a solution. Besides, it's the ones who have the money to make a transfer, if it's viable. [[Applause]] The company has already said that this judgement of the National Audience is firm, that what remains of them will be to close the factory and put all workers to rest and that what they will do will be expand the plant in Asturias, the Navia plant, to produce more. So, as I say, the only ones responsible for the closure of Ence and for leaving thousands of families without work are the Pontevedra Council, for having that fixation with this company and for its use as the extension of Ence, and the Government of the State, for wounding up in its own price, giving all the facilities for the ruling to be against that extension. Together has always defended the current location, because you have no alternative. There is no other location or solution; therefore, I insist that now it will be the Town Hall of Pontevedra and the Government who are looking for that solution. Junta is willing to collaborate, she's looking forward to helping out, and that's why she participates in the negotiating table, but the solution, as I say, has to come from those who created the problem, and Junta has no responsibility. [[Murmurs.]] The Ministry of Ecological Transition doesn't care about this either, because in five months, nothing more has been called up for two meetings, nothing to do. At the last meeting last week neither the minister nor the minister came, so it seems that he would rather care about this matter and distance himself from the future of the factory and the future of thousands of families in Galicia who depend on it. Already going to the points of the motion, Junta is willing to collaborate, but what she's not going to do is to collaborate, as they ask in her motion, to close Ence and recover the land that is currently occupied by the factory. As far as the solution to the creation of a consortium for forest sector empowerment is concerned, this will not solve the problems for the employees of Ence and the companies that depend on it, nor will it solve the catastrophic damage it will have to the port of Marín. Even so, like the Socialist Party, we welcome them to join in public-private collaborations, which they always reject. The Board is already pushing these projects, as I told you earlier, through the Next Generation funds -- they should be aware of that -- through the Reactivation Commission, and it makes no sense to propose a study of possible placements for that consortium if there is no industrial partner identifying the project according to its approaches. I'll finish by saying that since the Galician Union and the People's Party we'll always fight for the rights of workers and families, and we'll work together and put on a hand to try to secure the future work of the Ence staff in Lourizán. Another solution would have to be provided by those who caused the situation, i.e. the Council of Pontevedra and the Government of the State, the BNG and the Socialist Party. And I reiterate once again that if it closes without any alternative, the Nationalist Bloc and the Socialist Party will be responsible for the future of these 5,000 families. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u87	Thank you, Mr. Santos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] By the group who wrote the motion, Mr. Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u88	Call my attention powerfully that, having two representatives of the city of Pontevedra of the People's Party in this room, do not take the floor and that they charge the defense of this matter to a representative of the village of Marín, who seems worthy of all respect... calm down, calm down, do not exalt themselves! [[Murmurs.]] But in these cases, you have to face, you have to face. Look, I'm not a believer, I tell you I'm not a believer, but, in this case, even the very patron of the sea, the virgin of Carmel, if she stood on the right side; that is, the judgment was the day of the mistress of the sea; this is a case of divine justice. It can't be called any other way! [[Applause]] And the representative of PSOE, Mrs. Castro, tell us that BNG criminalizes workers. I would ask him to withdraw that statement, which seems very serious to me, because, of course, BNG will always defend the rights of all workers and workers to defend their jobs. What you're never going to allow, defend or justify is that a group of exalted -- who are not most of the workers of the Age -- with clear political and union leadership, use violence and coercion against the municipal government of Pontevedra, including their colleagues. We'll never agree to that. [[Applause]] And we've recently lived it at Peregrina's parties, you know it perfectly well. So, that's what we mean, not the rights that the workers have to use all the methods that they are able to defend their jobs. By the way, who ends with jobs is the company, not the municipal government of Pontevedra; the company with the popular party. [[Applause]] And the People's Party is still here with its mackerel, wrong and wrong, trying to blame the others and act... well, you read -- from manual -- the script of Ence, the argumentary of Ence, didn't set aside a comma. I don't know if they send it every time there's a debate, or if they already have a serial one, and they're going to repeat it, but they don't leave the Ence script. You are the shareholders of Ence, and the difference is that BNG is the shareholder of a great country called Galicia, a public company, not a private company. [[Applause]] That's the big difference between you and BNG. And I've told him before why you're holding this position. By the way, they changed it, they changed it from day to day. But the main reason behind it is that you've long had a pact sealed with Ence -- and I'm telling Mr. Wheeleda specifically -- which has also brought together a large amount of money. Yes, yes, a pact. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that pact has as its main objective an operation to overthrow the municipal government of Pontevedra. And they couldn't. They haven't achieved it, because the BNG has been ruling for twenty-two years, with the mayor of Miguel Fernández Lores, who is his great political objective. Now they're regrouping. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda is regrouping the "hosts" by Pontevedra to recover some political power, which almost doesn't stay in the towns and cities. For something it will be, for something it will be! But, you understand, despite all that money they have mobilized to buy wills, the BNG continues to have the majority support of Pontevedra's population, even though you have proposed many municipal elections as authentic plebiscites about the Ence, and they have lost them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And there's, in the opposition, twenty-two years in the opposition. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, we have to listen, of course. You guys like to talk, but they don't like to listen, when they get in their backs. Then hold on... there! [[Murmurs.]] Look, we have come here to bring forward proposals, proposals for the future, viable proposals, reasonable proposals, which are already being made in other countries. And they are alarmed that we propose a great industrial consortium around the Galician mountain, for its transformation, for its position in value, with criteria of multifunctionality and biodiversity, of course, to put it to the service of the country, because we have great wealth in the mountains and the sea and we have to develop it, but with public participation. Mr. Santos said: there is no industrial partner. The industrial partner has to be the Galician Union and the Greek forest sector, which is a strong sector, which is a powerful sector, which has to develop all its potential, because we cannot leave that wealth to just one company, the Ence. [[Applause]] It can't be. And look, I'm going to explain this very easily with this painting. Galicia produces 50 % of rolling wood cut into the state, 50 %, and we have 13 % of billing and 13 % of employment. Something's missing here, isn't it? You know what's wrong? That there is no project like what BNG presents here today, that would completely change this reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u89	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Mr Castro Rey asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Castro? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u90	Yes, Mr. President. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of this House, I wanted, by the allusions expressed by the Member of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, to ask you not to twist my words and to say that literality was that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u91	Mr Bará made a request to you. I don't know in that respect what you have to say. Explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u92	I have to say, don't twist my words. I talked about perfectly reprehensible behaviors, with names and surnames, some of the employees of Ence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u93	Got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u94	...that they're not most, and I also talked about BNG taking 20 years behind them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u95	Got it. Thank you. [[Applause]] We are voting on these motions. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u96	We started by voting separately on the first motion, although they were debated in an inclusive manner. I don't know if they have any transactions, because I've heard of several... No transactions. Isn't there? Miss Arias, is there a transaction? Isn't there? [[Refusal.]] Okay, so we vote separately. [[Refusal.]] First of all, we are voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Noa Susana Díaz Varela, on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the candidatures of the heritage that obtain international recognition. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u97	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms. Mercedes Complaints. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of the Mercedes Queixas Zas, on the management to be held by the Galician Union in connection with the presentation of the candidacy of the Holy Ribeira the heritage of humanity by UNESCO. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u98	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xoese Luís Bará. There are no amendments. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia regarding the environmental and productive reactivation of the Pontevedra River and the empowerment of the Greek forest sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u99	We suspended the session until 16.15, four and a.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u100	We restart the session with non-legislative proposals, which is the fourth point of the agenda. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the action to be taken by the Social Policy Council in relation to the work and composition of the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee, as well as the participation in it of the rest of the political forces represented in the Parliament of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u101	No amendments were tabled. There's a self-amendment from the proposed group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u102	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u103	Thank you, President. I want to start with my intervention by showing and sending all the strength and all the courage to have Carballin's 14-year-old girl struggling for her life after a terrible aggression so she can overcome it; and all the courage for the whole family I understand that in the name of all the representatives we are here. [[Applause]] Months ago, talking about the issue of senior residences, the State Platform for Resident Family Organizations -- at the national level -- with members leading the movement here too in Galicia, of which the Social Policy Council disagreed without even counting on its work for the new model, nor on the sector represented -- among others, with the Galician Society of Hieriacs and Xerontology --. And we really worry that this veto is a direct consequence of the criticisms that both organizations -- among other things -- have done to the management of the Greek Government on the pandemic, since this is totally normal in a democratic system, and the opposite -- that this is a response to those criticisms -- would be very worrying, as I say, in a democratic system. Let's hope it doesn't. From the new model about which the Council announced the start of a work and a committee -- of high secret, so it looks -- and in which it is supposed to be working, we know virtually nothing after more than a year, practically, since it was announced. The Platform of Resident Family Organizations itself defines the new model, to which we have to go, and they begin by saying the following textually: "A comprehensive account of what has happened in the residences during the pandemic is required in parliaments." Well, there's no such thing here in Galicia. In fact, the most significant thing is that to find a lot of data was really impossible. And even after asking them as legitimate representatives of the citizenship we are, the German Government looked to the other side, like anyone who didn't go with them. He didn't listen, and he didn't respond to certain important issues, escaping his obligation and seriously failing to respect citizenship and the professionals themselves in the sector who demanded it. And it is our duty and our obligation to request such information here in the Galician Parliament as representatives of the citizenship we are. That's why we demand to know data such as, for example -- always repeat -- the number of cod and deaths per residential center. And I won't shut up until they're delivered, because it's your duty. And we don't want them to frame at home. [[Applause]] We want them because they're demanding citizenship and the collective of professionals, family members and residents as well. Why do they want to cover for you? Why are they hiding data? Such was and is the lack of transparency of this Government of the People's Party in this matter that even the few relevant data we know about Galician residences we know through several publications. And, among them, is the publication of a research journalist's book, Manuel Rico, which includes, among other issues, that Galicia had only seven inspectors for all Galician residences, to supervise all Galician residences. That makes us into the second community with fewer inspectors per inhabitant from all over Spain. This can't be agreed. Here too the new care model must pass, ladies and gentlemen. This type of data, added to those already known in the Demoletor, report from the 2017 Board of Auditors, which also published the table of percentages of centres inspected per year -- where there is no doubt that an abysmal drop of inspections since 2010 onwards -- makes us think that this subject, for some reason, is disturbing to the Government of the People's Party of Wales. He wants it to go unnoticed, even vetoing a commission of inquiry, nothing more is going to start this legislation -- requested by all parliamentary groups in this House except, of course, that of the People's Party --. Why? What do you have to hide? Why not investigate? Why don't we get into the data that happened in Galician residences? During the last decade of the People's Party's Government, a single public square of direct management has not been created. You've been betting on another type of model. But if a government bets on privatizing a model -- such as that of residences, in this case -- it is obliged, by responsibility, to compensate for this fact by increasing supervision through the competent inspection body. What happened in Galicia? It was quite the opposite: as private and concerted squares increased, inspections were lowering. And you don't have to be very smart or expert on the subject to understand that this is a very dangerous formula that directly affects -- the lack of supervision -- against the well-being and care of older people. That's why we need to increase already, and significantly, the number of inspection technicians, as well as the number of public and direct management squares -- starting with the seven new homes donated by the Ortega Amancio Foundation that are going to be built, which is a valuable resource and demanded in one of the oldest autonomous communities and which has been paralyzed for years by a decision that we do not understand from this Government of the People's Party on this issue --. And now, in addition, for the most part, he dares to imply that the foundation's patience has a limit because it seems that they are now in a hurry -- since the year 2019 they already announced it in all the newspapers -- because Ourense is preparing a full because neighborhood associations are asking for information about green areas and legal issues -- in a city where the People's Party is ruling, along with Jacome, and in which it has kept a PXOM without updating since 1986!, nothing more and nothing less! --. As for the initial project of these seven hyper-announced and hyper-reliable residences by the PP Government years ago, it is understood that the project will be out of date, which will be pre-pandemic projects. In case they update it, we ask what are the big lines or changes in these projects. Why were they talking about more than a hundred squares for each residence? Are you going to follow the model of continuing residences marked by macroresidencies? These are matters that concern us. Another problem that we have in Galicia about residences is the waiting time to have a square and the lease itself about the place of origin of the person who asks for that residential square. Because that means, as we can imagine, an emotional upheaval and also the difficulty in visiting family people, or even friends, to see that person. And that has consequences, not only on the psychological level, but also on the physical level, very important in older people. We have to focus on this, too. Another key issue that has to change to the new care model is obscurantism and lack of transparency. We haven't been given the data we're asking for by the regulatory way, but we don't even have the basics. Nor do they respond clearly to what is the price for a concerted square that pays the Union. And we don't know, for example, how many men and women there are in each residential center to know the level of institutionalization by sex, or what pathologies they have or what medication, diets or care they need. Why don't we know such basic issues that can help to improve the lives of older residents? Is it not interesting that you know this data? Perhaps, for example, would we not be interested and would not be from the Government of the People's Party interested in knowing the percentage of cases with dementia in Galician residences? Maybe we don't know why it's not for the People's Party Government, why do you know that then we'd be talking about other conditions and other ratios? And why is there no clear evidence of who is part of the Sociosanitary Committee, of that secret committee that will define the new residential model of the next decades, which is something so important? It is important that there is consensus and debate, and, of course, with experts on the subject, with family associations, and most importantly -- and I want to stop at this point because we consider from the PSdEG that this is very important -- with the people concerned, with the protagonists, with the residents, the people who use the residences. Let's stop infantilizing older people by deciding for them. It can't be, I'm the most important voice of all, the first person protagonist in this matter. We ask the German Government to allow the empowerment of older people living in residences to allow them to participate in all decision-making bodies that can be made. Please, it's important. [[Applause]] Where is the urgent and publicized socio-health coordination between residences and the health area? Are they not even able to regulate or decide if they can have access to health records by doctors from the residences? Why in residences yes and no? -- in few, by the way, do they have access --? What are the objective criteria, if there are them? There is no specific norm or itinerary that connects residences with Sergas. As for resources, we can't talk about a new model. We have to invest resources. We have to take advantage of the moment, those seven new residences. We need to use this project to reverse this process of privatization and have new public squares. Since the state government is already working with autonomous communities to set minimum requirements, such as the type of design and equipment, rooms, activities and participation. Repetitive and childish activities will be avoided, for example, and users will be allowed to participate in home or community activities. Even each person's routines and habits will be respected, avoiding rigid schedules and rules; issues that seem very concrete but that are important to talk about because the well-being of our elders is at stake. It is very important for older people to participate in and view the recruitment of staff, family members, family visits whenever they wish, the reduction of restrictions and medication. We need to talk about this and also about the location. Residences away or in uninhabited environments will no longer be eligible. These kinds of issues, among many other measures, are the guidelines that the State Government is studying at least, which autonomous communities can improve but never lower. It's not serious that other autonomous communities are very advanced in their model of care and in Galicia there's still no serious work to do about it. Galicia has to lead its position as one of the oldest autonomous communities in the country. The residential model must be within the set of a new care model that strengthens existing resources in order to delay, or avoid, institutionalization. Let's make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u104	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u105	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We, of course, want to keep a record from BNG and join us as a group of solidarity expressed by Mrs Ortega with the girl of Carballin. And we also make a call to address emotional health and mental health. I think, after all we've had in recent years, we need a deep reflection on this issue in the whole of society, our country and any country in the world. [[Applause]] Getting into the question of the initiative, and focusing on what is called for in the resolution, too, is basically asking the Galician Council to come here to explain what it is doing in the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee, to us, from the BNG, it seems right. They were originally talking about a matter that they then removed in their self-amendment, which was that the political forces would join that committee. We didn't agree at all. The forum, the space for political forces participation is this House, this plenary session of the Parliament of Galicia. This is the space that corresponds to us. We understand, moreover, that it must be here where it is designed, where it is finally approved, the new model of care for dependents and older people, including older residences. But, in any case, we agree and we will vote -- go ahead -- in favour of that initiative. Also since that conviction that this House is where the popular sovereignty of this country is represented, where it is appropriate to give the debate on the model of care, as with any other public policy in our country, we have been working -- as the various groups of this House already know -- and we will bring in this session a proposal for a Greek law of residences, which we understand is not only a demand but an imperative after what we have lived in the last year in this regard. In any case, I insist that we agree to ask the Board to come here to explain what you are doing, and in some reflections on what is being collected in the initiative and on some of the issues that have also been emerging now at Mrs Ortega's exhibition. She's not here to explain what she's doing, not because she can't or because she's not asked for it, but because she doesn't want it. In January of this year, in January of 2021 -- we're located, because we're in the month of September -- to be exact, January 7th, just after Kings, January 7th, 2021, since the BNG, we've been asking you, through a question for your written answer, to the Galician Meeting on this issue, by the composition of the Socio-Associated Advisory Committee and the work plans you were working with -- it's worth redundancy --. And, above all, we wondered whether it was just whether you were addressing the reform of the new residential model isolated or whether you were incorporating into the work of that health committee also some other aspects that are intrinsically linked to the right to a dignified old age, such as home care or day centers -- by setting two examples, simply --. We haven't been answered to those questions until September 8th, four TV sets, until September 8th, 2021, eight months later. And here I'd like to open a parenthesis because my companion Mercedes Complaints -- adorated for me always -- opened a melon that I think is important too in this forum: the absolute degradation to which the People's Party, since the Galician Union, is taking this House and the one representing the legislative power in this country, which is huge and, above all, unacceptable. It is not that only documentation is transmitted through the channels and mechanisms provided for in the Rules of Procedure of this House to develop our work. It's just that it's not even answered to the questions written in time and in the manner in which the regulation contemplates. [[Applause]] And to show you a button. I could bring beams, but it's not about annihilating the Amazon here, either, to show you a button. The regulation provides that written replies must be sent to the groups that demand them within 20 days of their publication in Parliament's Bulletin. I'll tell you how many working days are eight months, but 20 I'll tell you no. And the answers -- we'll see it now -- I'm an insult to the collective intelligence of this House and to anyone with two fingers in front. But the most serious, the most serious, is not that things are delayed or that the answers are almost insulting and ridiculous, but that behind that is a deliberate concealment of public information -- Mrs Ortega also said in her speech -- denying not a right of the Members of Parliamentary Groups, but the normal functioning of this House, which is the legislative power of this country. [[Applause]] Because you confuse the absolute majority -- or four, the ones you want -- with an absolutist government that was beyond the political control that must be done in this House. And here we're not meant to slap the Galician Union or much less the People's Party, or to give them any democracy varnishes to you. [[Applause]] But by going back -- I'm closing the gap -- to the concrete question about that advisory committee, we're asking you a question that in any minimal democracy -- minimal, very minimal -- would be easily responsive, you don't have to open up anymore. We asked people and/or entities to make up that advisory committee, a committee -- let's remember -- created outside the Galician Social Services Act with members who are elected by the Government itself. That's a win-win, "you always win." It's a win-win. Of course, I choose who can sit around a table to debate, to reflect and to think about a public policy and I always win. Although many of the people who are joining that committee have the best of their wills, the maximum of their wills -- I am absolutely convinced -- the intention of the Galician Union is not to give a democratic debate, to give a broad, plural and transparent debate, which would correspond to this matter, but to direct it. We were asking about that relationship of people and I'm already telling them -- I'm a spoiler -- that it doesn't give a single name, neither entity nor person nor practically the collectives who are or are not represented in it. We're not told who's been involved or the work plan they've been working on since December 2020 -- nor do we know what targets they've been working on -- beyond that, yes, to repeat to satiety, as if it were a mantra, those three headlines that have been repeating the nine months that we've been working on: technology, architectural improvements and socio-health coordination. You try to get them out of there and know a little bit more -- questions in Commission 5th, petitions in this House -- and nothing is said at all. And not because you don't know, but because you don't want to. There's a political intention in all of this: what it's to do, what it seems to be changing something, but to keep everything absolutely the same. We're talking about technology not to talk about ownership and residence management model. We've seen it here in this same Chamber when we've proposed -- as a consensus too -- the goal of building a consensus around the political commitment to strengthen public care and care services for older people and dependent people. She spoke, Mrs. Ortega, of those residences, of those seven residences that are planned to build in the cities of Greece -- she has been saying since 2019 --. On February 23, 2017 it was the first time that this was mentioned. So they were going to make money from the Galician Board -- 47 million euros --. Suddenly -- without moving a stone -- Amancio's foundation has appeared, which puts a mammograph on you as an intergenerational one, as seven residences are set up in seven cities. Suddenly he appeared, but until now we have not even one stone built. There may be some cities where there are conflicts on the ground. There are also others where they already have them and they follow exactly the same. I insist that we try to divert the debate away from the center in which we understand that it is truly important, that it is the title and model of management of a fundamental right as the right to dignity. Because here -- I insist on this -- 8 out of every 10 squares, 8 out of every 10 major residential squares, are private; in a territory like ours where 25% of the population -- and growing -- is over 65 years old. They're private, but tremendous business they've mounted. Three large groups control cod in the residential sector in Galicia: DomusVi, the San Rosendo Foundation and the Hermanites of the Disabled Elders. It's the three majority groups that receive through the management of concerted squares -- or through the bonus-residence with which we all pay and all a square in private while they're waiting to receive a public square that doesn't exist, because only 2 out of every 10 are public in our country -- 74 million euros per year of public funding drainage to keep on eating the business of three private groups. Seventy-four million euros is it much or is it little? [[Applause]] Is it much or is it little? Depends, everyone's worth it. It's 10 million more than we invest in risk every year. Everyone will think if it's too much or too little. This is the same -- and I finish because today we're also going to discuss this, and the basic question is the same -- as the Bank's cashiers, the same! You rescue an entity, you rescue it with public money, you clean it, you sell it to a Venezuelan businessman for less than it cost you to collect it, and now that they earn money from full hands we still pay them all the cashier. Any day you ask us for a kidney and they give it to you. And that's what we need to start changing in this country. There are fundamental rights that must be guaranteed, respected and shielded from the public domain. And that's the fundamental debate that needs to be given about the model of care and residential care in this country. There are two models: continuing to dine on the private business, or putting our hands on the work to build a strong public service network. That's the bet and position we stand for and what we work for in the BNG. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to begin with the most important, which is to add ourselves to our desire for recovery from this savagely attacked girl of Carball, who we hope will recover satisfactorily and hope that sooner or later, because events like this should not happen in any civilized society. And so I think the three groups share that feeling. [[Applause]] Focusing on the proposal that you bring us here today, I have to thank you for the effort of innovation in parliamentary use -- right? -- that we're living in this legislation. Today we are living a new situation. I heard a debate on a non-law proposal that we will not be able to vote. Because you made a debate based on the original proposition they put forward. And it seems that at one point you forgot that you yourself tabled an amendment withdrawing a series of requests that were the ones that centred your debate. It's new. In any case, I do want to say some questions about what brought us here today. The first is to clarify what the objectives of the Board are on this issue, which is only to create an integral model of social health care for older people and dependent people; a new model that involves the revision and improvement of residences but also introduce improvements in other care resources that allow us to reconcile stay in the home with participation in social life, as they demand -- we understand -- mostly the Greeks and the Greeks. It is not the result of any failure, of previous problems in the model -- which is certainly perfectable, like everything else -- but basically this is due to a new situation caused by the emergence of a pandemic that has highlighted the need to introduce measures to minimize the impact of a new disease that conditions the social model of coexistence that we have known so far, including living in our own homes. So what is meant is to create a new care model with a vocation of permanence in time, a model not only designed for the pandemic, but also for the postpandemia. And for that, the Union considers it essential that the fundamental tool for developing this model should be dialogue, participation and consensus. And that will has materialized in two very specific areas: political and social. The politician materialized with the creation and development of a parliamentary committee to address the consequences of the pandemic and the necessary socio-economic reactivation. They had to make all the contributions they considered appropriate. And, of course, if you think there's something else you can do, receptiveness is absolute to study those proposals. In the social field, it was established by establishing a socio-health advisory committee in which different agents involved are represented; among them, representatives of the family members of users, doctors, residency professionals, managers of the care sector, etc., and without any will of veto, simply those who considered themselves fit. I understand that there are people who can consider themselves to be others, and there's no problem. And, of course, I'm surprised to hear a representative of the Socialist Party speak of a "supersecret commission." Home!, I, honestly, when they presented the self-amendment I thought they suffered as a certain attack of decoration and that the Socialist Party would not dare to talk about secret committees or phantom committees. I believe that, with his background, the slightest decorum indicated that, indeed, there was no need to talk about it. But it seems that they insist. I have to remind you again that the committees that operate in Galicia are known. They are known, and their names are made public when they make decisions that affect citizenship, not like other committees that exist at national level and that have been invented -- two -- the famous committee that was supposed to endorse the decisions made by the Government of Spain, and that it turns out that there was no one, and another committee that endorsed economic decisions, also by the Government of Spain, and that did not exist either. Yeah, I know you're interested in talking about it here. Let's talk about this. Here was a committee and, indeed, all its professionals are known, their names are public, they are known to everyone and everyone knows their curricula. That's the difference that leads us to boast of what is done in Galicia, and that should lead you to keep silent about what is done -- what your party does -- in the government of the state. I ask you to be a little cautious, please, prudent. [[Applause]] And there's a committee, this one, which is working discreetly, discreetly. There's no concern... yes, discreetly, because, unlike other committees, this one has not made a public document or proposed any measure that today is affecting citizens. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, when he does, he gets to know the content and the people who compose it to know who exactly supports those documents. But until now there has been no need, they are working discreetly, discreetly. So, I would ask, really, a little reflection before coming here to give you don't know very well lessons of that. Look, the reality is that in these two areas of decision-making they've already grown some fruit. The Commission has already presented the conclusions containing the various proposals of the parliamentary groups -- of all --. Many of them were consensual. There were important residential agreements. By the way, the only proposal you made was accepted and supported by the majority group. And as for the committee, different documents are being drawn up, in a job -- as if they were answered in writing -- which is being developed through phases and in three different working groups that, according to fruit, will be being presented. Tell me no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have here -- I suppose you were given a transfer from it too -- the written answer that explains this, exactly what I just told you about -- which, of course, then they accuse us of not answering. There are two requirements when asking a question: ask the question and then read the answer. If you read the answer, it's much easier for all of us to communicate with a certain fluidity. You are asking for a report on the progress that has been made in this area. We're going to support that proposal because, believe me, there's no desire to create or push a new residential model and then keep it secret. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The idea is that the whole of citizenship knows it, and we find it very nice to be present, in addition to this House. In fact, there's already been a question. It seems to be disturbing to repeat, but indeed it has been reported here at the parliamentary headquarters of the three fundamental pillars of the new model of residences. It seems like it bothers you to repeat it, but I'm going to do it again: technology bet, structural and architectural improvements and better coordination of social and health resources. Mrs. Rodil seems like insufficient proposals. It's true we don't know anyone else who made us BNG. I'd like it to be... No, no, no, no... in the Commission, Your Honor, as you know, in addition to the approved dictation, private votes are included. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With which, all proposals are known. I'd like to know again what yours are. Today we don't know them, we don't know them, but we'll be delighted to receive them as soon as they're able to communicate them to the majority group or, if they prefer, directly to the Government. Then he was also informed of the beginning of the development of a two-phase residence census: the first, integrating data with the Greek dependency care system; and the second, with health adjustment and incidences and enabling the simplification of administrative tasks. And also, if you reported the incorporation into all residences that contain health personnel -- I asked Mrs. Ortega what was the criterion, which is that it contains health personnel -- and also in homes through advanced teleassistion, the latest version of electronic clinical history. This is the reality of what's happening. This is what we should debate because it was the proposal they brought us. They decided to talk about other things, and I, because they're taking the subject out, because I have no drawback to comment on some of them. First, Mrs. Rodil, we're going to be a little serious. If you say there's a great deal of business for three groups that get the majority cake from the residences, say that, of these three groups, two are non-profit foundations. Of course, at last, it seems like a funny question. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In two non-profit foundations, I don't know what the economic advantage you think you're getting from that very juicy business you're talking about. It's certainly a curious thing. And then, honorably, the PSOE, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, speaking here of data concealment when even today they were unable to give an official number of deceased in this country is a question that, if it weren't so serious, it would be to laugh at it. But this is very serious, it's very serious. You've been told here that the data will be provided. The data, as you know, are subject to different regulations and must be complied with. You don't like it. You think those resources that have been presented must be passed over and the data must be given because they are, because you ask for them. There's a data protection law, you have to meet a number of requirements, and you've been told that when that compliment is over, you'll be made public, no more or less. Inspection deficits? But if we already have a committee agreement on this matter, but if we come to an agreement! But how can you claim something that is already agreed in this same House? And then, honestly, there are two subjects that draw my attention. One is that you insist on the refusal of this group to a commission of inquiry. Look, this group has clearly exposed it to them from the beginning. We understood that there was a camera where that commission could be carried out because it was where we could talk about the performance of all and each of the administrations that operated in connection with this pandemic, which is Congress. You voted against; and you, too. Because what they don't want is to talk about the management that has been done since the Government of Spain, we don't know why. Well, we do know why: because, in relation to this, what the Government of Spain did was to stand aside, try to blame others and wash your hands so that you come to oppose the work that the Council of Galicia and other self-governments did by assuming the responsibilities that you directly abandoned. That's the reality. And finally, I think it's nice that you ask for an increase in squares, and in fact, you're working to increase these squares. But, of course, it is my attention that new squares are being demanded at the same time that the creation of these squares is blocked in the particular case, for example, of Ourense. I'd like to know if there's any technical reports that justify that blockade. We don't know him, we don't know him. And if Mrs Ortega comes here to say that the problem is that there is a PXOM without updating since 1986 -- I think she said --... it must be that the PSOE has not ruled since 1986 in Ourense. It must be something... Oh, well, it's a frankly surprising, surprising question. [[Applause]] The reality is they had a chance. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u109	They didn't do it because of the difficulties inherent in the adoption of a document like this, which I don't question. But, man, there's something much easier than approving a PXOM, which is to unlock the creation of a new residence which I think is desired by all. And we, the difference between others -- I take advantage of it and with this I already call for my intervention -- will again publicly thank you for the involvement of the Amancio Ortega Foundation in the well-being and development of these policies in Galicia. It's something to thank and we'll do it as many times as we need to. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, others follow not because they don't, and it seems they're not worth what this foundation does or what it does to the Galician Union or what it does to anyone who doesn't be those advisers to those who, by the way, in so many subjects we really do not know. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u110	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u111	Thank you, President. I want to start by answering a question that the People's Party was commenting on. How will a Congressional research commission be done on the issue of what happened in residences if the residency skills, before, during and after the pandemic, are here in Galicia, in the Government of Galicia? If we don't even know where the competition is, we're not going. [[Applause]] Anyway... Mrs. Rodil spoke with an expression of "doing what is done." And in this the German Government has a master's degree. In particular, the Government of the People's Party is an example and expert in marketing and selling smoke. And there's a master class, an example, in the Social Policy Council, specifically in this subject and in the last year. And I say it by fascicles and chronologically. September 2020: "The Union announces that it is working on a new model of senior residences". On November 17, 2020: "The Union works on a new residential model for older people." December 2020 -- there's more, what happens is that I don't have enough time -- "Fabiola García ensures that the new residence model will be participatory, consensive and inclusive." Or April 15, 2021: "Galice bets on a new socio-health model with smaller and more personalized residences. These are the objectives and strategies that have been set for their implementation." Let's keep going. May 2021: "Social Policy expects to have in the coming weeks" -- May 2021 -- "a new model of residences for Galicia." Redoubles! If there's any music in the room, he'll do the rounds, he'll come! Here he comes, surprise! And tachan!: "Feijo announces another residence for Ribeira with 100 pioneer places of a new model". With 100 squares, a mammoth of a hundred squares, when it's being asked, from the new residential model, from the circles of the environment, both of the workers and of the users and of those who represent these kinds of collectives, that precisely -- and even through the state, the guidelines are already given -- if they make smaller models. And they say there's a new residential model? And repeat Mr Feijóo what the representative of the People's Party has now commented. "There are three basic pillars: technology and exploring structural and architectural measures to optimize care services from realism and efficiency." I don't understand. I really don't understand what they mean by this model. I think they must be more concrete, because I think it's a joke. And, as I said, if it wasn't because the subject is very sensitive, it looks like a joke. But what you can't consent to is a year of photos and headlines to sell a motorcycle that doesn't really exist, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Do you think it's serious to play with a question like this?!, really? A year announcing what doesn't exist! And surely now, the collation of this LNP, there will be some new headlines in the near future, a new fascicle of how the subject is going, repeat again because these three apex perhaps a little more developed. I don't know, the truth, what they play. You finally have to come to the government to work for a few minimums what you haven't done in Galicia. It's the most aging autonomous community, and what's not done here has to be done outside. It's -- I don't know -- tremendously striking. It's a shame that in a central matter like what we're dealing with -- that we're talking about more than 30 percent of deaths from the total number of Greeks and Greeks -- the party that supports the Government of Greece, the People's Party, devote their minutes to attacking the party level, as always, the central government, and throwing balloons out as if it weren't with them, as if the competitions weren't here. It is not understood, rather than really taking advantage of the new measures, of the proposals they have. What are the proposals -- if they exist, of course --? That same German People's Party Government is what it decided to choose to implement a model of residential care for the most privatized in the state with a really dangerous formula: to increase the number of private squares and to reduce the number of inspections. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? That's what they have to explain and stop applying the "Faijóo method", which was the fault of cha cha tea, when the competitions -- I repeat -- before, during and after the vault are in Galicia. They are advised by experts, they don't escape constructive criticism, they don't escape ideological pluralism, they don't escape the debate on such a sensitive subject. Because I always say that we can't forget that this affects all people, regardless of age or where we live. Everyone, with luck, at a certain age we'll be there. Luckily we'll be bigger or depend on it, because the eternal youth, for now, has not been invented. So we have to put our batteries on a subject where other autonomous communities are already very advanced, and don't wait until they come from outside to mark our times to make the vague in a matter that has to be fundamental to the state's oldest autonomous community. We call on the Government of Greece, as regards the new model of care, transparency, work, unity and consensus with social agents, experts, residents workers, seniors and families; and of course unity in a matter that affects us all and all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u112	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. Non-law proposal by G. P. Popular, at the initiative of Don Maria Encarnación Amigo Díaz and six other Members, on the demand of the Galician Union to the Central Government for an extraordinary proof of access by resident internal physicians and the ability of health centres and specialists in family and community medicine to provide their training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u113	There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u114	To formulate the non-law proposition, you have the floor to Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u115	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. The non-law proposal that we bring here today, promoted by the People's Parliamentary Group, sets fundamental and essential measures on the table for the improvement of our health care, particularly primary care. Less than a week ago, we heard in Commission 5th the Director General of Health Planning, who was here to answer questions raised by the Socialist Party and by the BNG regarding the new model for primary care in Galicia that is being implemented by the Health Council. Many of the questions on which they had been asked were already exposed in the audience on their own request that the director general himself made on July 15 to expose the reforms initiated by the Galician Council in primary care and to gather the conclusions adopted at the Technical Council for Primary Care. In this Commission we have all heard the proposals in which we have been working since the German Government in this area. And this is not a minor matter, but in the face of what seems to be deaf ears -- with all my respect for the deaf collective --. In fact, as the saying goes, there's no worse deaf than what you don't want to hear. Another topic that has already come out several times and I don't want to stop clarifying is that of eventuality. Yesterday we could read a press release by Mr. Torrado twisting data and reality. And, in fact, it's urgent for you to review the health management data, Mr. Torrado. The eventuality is a necessary evil, because it is personal necessary to cover holidays, casualties or days of free will. The whole health system must have a bag of potential workers to cover all these cases. But take good care and note: since 2009 when the PP is in charge, the MIR Family Medicine Squares have always been fully covered in the Galician Union. For data, it should be clarified that in the Bipartite Government this percentage was 75%. In the People's Party Government we've been covering 100 percent of these squares for several years. You have to review the data if you do not want to give missing news. I don't know where it comes from that only 20% of residents without turning into stables. You ignore the stability contracts that are implemented in our community -- by the way, an initiative reinforced by this Government --. But by focusing on the issue that we bring today into our LNP, they know and know perfectly well that we have three themes that depend solely on the central government: the increase in the MIR squares, being able to form more tutors and the elimination of the replacement rate. On the first of the points, the increase in the MIR squares, we ask for an increase in squares, something for which only the central government is competent. Once these squares are taken out, the cost of paying those residents assumes autonomous communities. And Galicia is willing and committed to assume all the costs of all the squares that give us further. But, ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need that increase in squares. Secondly, being able to train tutors is a vital issue in order to achieve this extraordinary training that we have won in our country. Let us not forget that one of the main reasons why health professionals in the National Health System are among the best valued professionals in Spain and being asked by many countries in the world is undoubtedly that MIR training model that we count on in our country. And I want to remind you here what the Director General has moved us -- and what is envisaged within that vertebrate strategy -- that we will focus on the distribution of primary care teams' workloads to better respond to population demand, addressing demand management, linking that relationship between primary care and hospital care, and between social services and the community. The key question for today is that specific and time-consuming training is needed for MIR tutors to have that much-needed time for training. And lastly, thirdly -- done in what we have insisted on with no success, given the contempt that this petition does for Moncloa's tenant -- the elimination of that replenishment rate; the question asked for by active and passive, from time to time, from this Parliament on different occasions -- and including the positive vote of the Socialist Party of Galicia --. Galicia, like the rest of the country and even the countries around us, has been suffering in recent years the lack of medical specialists, mainly in the field of primary education. And, in order to be able to address this situation, it is repeatedly demanded that this rate of replacement of health personnel be removed -- even after a unanimous agreement in this same Parliament --. Despite this, the restorative rate collected in the general budgets of the State, which was 110 %, Galicia called for a public job offer that always ran out of that rate, focused, in addition, on markets of specialists in family and community medicine. And thanks to this, the percentage of primary physicians in ownership is very high in our community, about 90%. Despite the efforts made in recent years by the Galician Union, it is clear and notorious that there is an important lack of professionals that prevents in many cases the necessary vacancies from being filled in the primary care centers of our community. A key and fundamental piece to increase the availability of professionals is the call for health training squares. In 2019, following the request of the Health Council to the Ministry of Health, these squares were increased by 472. And in the call for 2020, there was a greater offer -- best in our community -- 491 squares. In addition, at the call for 2020, 100 percent of the accredited training facilities for family doctors were offered. So let's put all our training units at the service of the residential medical squares that are convened. In order to increase this number of offered squares, however, it is necessary, upon request from the Ministry, to resolve the accreditation of new units. The effort made in the call for OPEs, as well as in the offer of 100 percent of the accredited training squares, is not enough. The Galician Union is doing a great deal of what it can within its competences, but it needs what it has been asking for for for for a long time: more training squares, more puppetry squares and the elimination of that replenishment rate. This is reality, ladies and gentlemen, and the rest are stories. I know that for the left-wing forces it's very greedy to hold on to a sign, to demand more staff in health centers. But at this particular moment it is in your hands, in the hands of the Government of Spain, to give a solution to this lack of health care personnel. More decisions since Moncloa and fewer banners, gentlemen! meet the demand of the Union and from Parliament and stop torpedoing public health by preventing us from having more professional. It's as simple as joining the content of this non-legislation proposal in full. The proposal for an agreement is that an extraordinary call should be made for access to the MIR and, in the same way, and taking into account Law 14/1986, and also to 16/2003, for the cohesion and quality of the National Health System, which points out that the entire structure of the health system will be available to the professionals, the specialized and continuing teaching, the necessary actions are carried out to enable the health centres in an extraordinary manner necessary to have the consideration of centres accredited for training, as well as professionals who are familiar and community-based specialists in order to be able to act as tutors in the training of residents. If we have squares and we don't have tutors, we don't do anything either. I personally would like, and I'm willing, to come to an agreement. You have tabled amendments and we can reach an agreement to move forward unanimously this LNP and finally allow us to lay the foundations for correcting fundamental deficiencies for the improvement of our health system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u117	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mrs. Friend, you came from summer vacations forcefully. He entered the attack here in the rostrum. And it's fine, because we have a lot of work ahead of us and it's important to do it. Since it doesn't basically talk about eventuality -- although indirectly everything we're dealing with about the staff has to do with that --, just to clarify the eventuality, the eventuality is not only important, but inevitable in the system. The difference is that you're dealing with eventuality, but the important thing is to talk about the data. All experts point out that the eventuality in a health system is between 5 % and 8 %. But it's just that Sergas has a 35 percent eventuality and numerous judgments against him for hiring law fraud. And that's the problem, Mrs. Friend. It's not that we don't want eventuality, what we want is that Sergas doesn't become the worst ETT in Galicia, which is what it is. Maybe you agree with that, but we don't. But let's get to the point. The goal of this initiative, and in general this idea of the extraordinary MIR, which is what basically focuses all of your intervention and that of Mr. Feijóo lately, is to wash your face. It's all a bloody story. The story in politics is going to end with us, because in the end the subjects are going to be the same. It's gonna be the one we blame. In that you are champions of the world, Olympics, world record, no doubt. But it's important to know if they're right. Allow me to argue that they have it. First of all, because this is smoke -- that of the extraordinary call from the MIR --. And I'd like you to explain. How about you do this to comply with the laws? Because it's legislated, there was a government to which it happened that MIR calls should be annual, an annual call. It's literal, say Law 44/2003 -- curiously promoted by the government of Aznar, curiously by a health minister, Ana Pastor, Galician and her companion --. You take this to call Ana Pastor and say to her, "Look, the law that you made you will comply with, but we're going to ask you to violate the law." You, Mr. Feijóo, are proposing something illegal to enter, in addition to being a mistake -- this of course --. It's, at the entrance, illegal. Start right! But, well, let's go on. They don't solve a doubt I have: with what tutors? Because if they're going to double or want to double the call, they're going to have to double the tutors. I remind them that they've been spending two years and I'm peaking with a lot of dead-end heads of service, among other things, because they say it's impossible to bully in the conditions in which you make them work. What tutors are you going to double the squares with? How will the places of training be doubled? Or are they going to reduce the formation of the extraordinary MIR by half time? Ah!, as we're going to make an extraordinary MIR, then, of everything the others were going to form, it's going to be half. Can you explain this to me? With what resources? How are the MIRs going to rotate? For something you don't do, for something you've legislate so that you can't do it. Of course, the problem is to build or try to build the damn story, and they forget the truth. And the truth is, you're against that now they're defending, what happens is that to you, to be consistent, it costs them a little bit more. But, look, you're talking, among other things -- if I'm wrong, please correct me, that the MIR depends solely on the central government. Then I will propose that we at least rejoice at something. Because, of course, you went out here and this weekend they gave you bad news for the story; good for the system, bad for the story. It's just that you've always heard me say that we've been following three years with the three biggest MIR calls in history, and you always said to me, you're with the same thing. I promise I'll change. Well, it's not three now. This weekend is already four. The last four calls, the last calls that this government made -- which you say you don't like in Madrid -- are the four biggest MIR calls in history. Galicia will be able to form more professional than ever in history thanks to the Government of the State. That sounds like good news to me. And to you, Mrs. Friend, what do you think? Do you think it's good to train many professionals? I think we can agree to tell the Government of the State that we thank you for listening to the needs and thank you for convening these four MIR calls. But, look, you tell me: we need to increase squares. We agreed. So answer one question: why haven't you called and renounced 150 family doctors since you started ruling Mr. Feijóo, or 131 community family nurses -- who didn't call them, who could summon them and didn't call them? It's just that I'm going to talk to you about the last year: 216 in general of all the specialties, which are called in the training call every year, and they gave up 165 places. Sixty-five health professionals in 2019 could have started training in Galicia and you didn't want them, 165!, and you come here now saying that you have to ask the Government of the State most plazas. Let's do the comparison, numbers with numbers. You always tell me: you come here to lie and I don't know that... If it's okay, let's get the calls out. Look, I have the BOE this Saturday with the summons, we can see the squares. I suppose you trust the BOE. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows a document.]] I do. I'm on my way to the DOG! Look at me if I'm well-intentioned! We can see them, and we can compare. Look, Government Rajoy: maximum annual call of family doctors, 98. You, 98. Do you know how many we're going to train for next year? One hundred and two, 40 percent. The worst call of the MIR of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the worst, is far greater than the best of Rajoy governments. Hundred and two! But we can talk about other things. In family and community nursing, because you're talking about MIR, but it's very important, in primary care, to have nurses as well, and other professional categories, but professional nurses and nurses are very important. Do you know how many squares were called in family and community nursing with the Government of the People's Party, Mrs. Friend? You come to sue for something you didn't do, because, do you know how many were summoned? Twenty-one. Do you know how many are summoned for next year? Forty-four, Mrs. Friend. I suppose you'll hear good news. Thank you for saying yes. [[Mrs. Amigo Díaz, sit down.]] It costs him a bit, I understand it, but I appreciate it if he says yes. It's good news that the government of the state summons more squares than ever. Do you know what the problem is? That you then refuse to have them, because you say -- and allow me to tell you that, if you say so, if you believe, if you are wrong, and that, if you say so, you lie -- that they have summoned all the squares whenever they could. You're lying! But it's official data! Let's look at MIR's annual calls, see the possibility of offering, which is public, and see if it matches. Never coincides. You've convened every year of the Rajoy Government, every year, less squares than you could, and now you've come to say that we have a problem. Of course we have a problem. If the healthcare professionals normally, like each person, fulfill one year each year! We all know when they're going to retire, and you too, and they didn't form people. There are two fundamental premises -- two -- to have a suitable human resource system. There are two -- there's probably more, but two essentials -- forming and contracting. Never, during the Rajoy governments, formed all the possibilities they had. They had few, because now we have many more, and they never called all. And you come here now to say that the government of the state summons more. But if they call you more! If you are the ones who are unable to convince your system! They're training the tutors on their own, because they don't even know about you, they don't even know where they are or who asks them or who to talk to! If they didn't repel the heads of service! If they're unable to recognize that we have a great summons! And they make me a proposal for something that's illegal, because you've built a law with an absolute majority to say you couldn't do it, and now they're asking for it. It's very difficult to argue against incoherence, because, of course, how one can defend one thing now and another afterwards... it's important to be consistent, Mrs. Friend, very important, and we can argue with data everything we can, but with data and with reality. I honestly thought that, after the summons, I would at least say something. Well, at least: an extraordinary summons is not possible, but we want more. We want more, all right. But we have the greatest summons ever. We've never had as much as this year, never, and we're hitting the record of the past, of the previous and previous, of the four summons of this government. Of course, you can't even recognize that. You never summoned all the possibilities, and now, which give them more possibilities than ever, they come to ask for more. Contraction. Madam Friend, of course, yes, 20% of the IRM remain stable. Why do we know this? First, because, if it wasn't, depending on the replenishment rate, it would be illegitimate, they would be contracting inappropriately. Second, because we have a discrepancy with stability. You think three months of contract is stability. We don't. We have that discrepancy. And you now defend that the replacement rate has to be eliminated. By the way, when that was at the Congress of Deputies, they voted against it. If they voted against it, Mrs. Friend! But they voted against it! If we are the only party in this House who voted in favour! You can't come here to say those things! You can defend the position you want, of course, but at least be consistent. Of course we do. Now, there's a replenishment rate right now of 110 percent. Ask me: insufficient? Yes. Do you know how long there was with the Rajoy Government for several years? Ten percent. We multiply it by 11, by 11, by, by 11! And in times of pandemic, it doesn't happen to anyone who's going to drop it, it won't happen. You didn't have all the squares. Rajoy's government was different from you, and you were silent, chiton. Now that they have a government that makes all the calls as wide as possible, they come here to tell us that the government, very badly, because it does not call places. We accept all the debates, Mrs. Friend, but it is important to go to the data, it is important not to lie and it is very important to recognize others. The situation is very complicated, but you, who today had a very difficult placard -- because this weekend the call for MIR came out, and you got rid of this argument-- at least you could recognize that this government is making a "wrong" calls -- of course, literally quote Sergas' manager, Mr. Fernández Campa, two years ago-- "what Galicia needs." Literally, in Commission 5th, you were there. So, you don't come to disembowel now what your own Government says, when you really have nothing but to accept that there's a government in the state that you can help...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u118	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u119	...and that you're all you're doing is hiring eventually -- and really like a bad ETT -- health professionals, who are the ones who support our system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u120	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u121	Good afternoon. The truth is, after listening to the two interventions that preceded me, I don't know if the fault, in the end, is going to be cha, cha, cha, right? because here is the question of putting guilt out: one does more, the other does less... If there's one, the fault is what it is, and when the other is in the government of the state, we change the turns. And the reality is, in the meantime in Galicia, we have an insufficient number of professionals. I told Mrs. Amigo in her speech that today's debate initiative says that they've been covering 100 percent of the training squares and they want more. It is important to cover 100 per cent of training, but it would be more important for those who are left and not for 60 per cent to leave, as is what is happening in these last calls, because it is not just about training, but about that training remaining in the country and staying in Sergas. But, well, look, this request from an extraordinary MIR of the specialty of family and community medicine that the People's Party asks for and that the President of the Government Nuñez Fêsóo claims as Balsam of Fierabrás, as if that extraordinary call from MIR had been to solve absolutely all the problems of primary care, is false. It's a distraction maneuver, and you know it perfectly well. It's a distraction maneuver on the real problem of primary care, which is the twelve years of the People's Party's government, which systematically acted to discredit and neglect primary care. That's the reality. You've been cutting out the markets of family and community doctors since 2009. Do you remember those 2009, 2010, 2011 or 2012, where they would do more with less? It was the People's Party mantra: "Let's do more with less." I suppose you remember, don't you? And I have to remind them again that, less, it only gets less, and the results are very clear there. In 2012-2013, they published the Sergas Human Resources Management Plan. In this plan, the number of professionals that would be needed in the years that followed to give stability to the system and that there was a sufficient number of professionals, how many would retire, and how many would need to be trained. BNG strongly brought this issue to this Parliament: that there was a human resources plan for the People's Party's Union's People's Union, where they set up how many professionals were needed and that action needed to be taken so that this would not become a problem. And let me give you an example, an initiative that brought the BNG here the debate on Commission 5th June 29th, 2017, four years ago -- we had others before, but I'm referring to this one. He referred to that resource plan, that resource management plan of the Galego Health Service, conceived as a planning tool, to know what is needed and to be able to act so that those needs could be met. Well, I told him that this plan, conceived as a planning tool, concluded that there's an important aging of staff. He said it textually the plan. And he said, textually, "It concludes a significant aging in global terms of the body's staff, in parallel to that of the own population of Galicia, and that it is more accused in the collective of medically licensed staff. The said circumstance has a unique impact on various organizational aspects of the care activity, among which it is worth highlighting the decreasing availability of the aforementioned collective for the coverage of continued care." I mean, we have a problem detected, put on paper in 2012. The BNG brought him on other occasions and brought him in 2017, and we demanded that the Galician Parliament urge the Government of Galicia to adapt the training squares by the MIR and EIR residency system -- i.e., I would also-- that they offer themselves in Galicia to the real needs of the Sergas professional coverage. What if they don't guess that the People's Party voted for this initiative that said: you have a document that says they're going to be in need of professionals, they're acting to adapt MIR and EIR training, above all, to Galicia's needs -- 2017, four years ago? What did the People's Party vote for? He voted no; he voted not because there was no need to act or do anything. There was no need to train more professionals for how many of them were going to retire. And they continued to vote not insistently another number of times that we have brought similar initiatives to act in the formation and replacement of troops in Sergas. So the People's Party, the German Government, has known for a long time that there was a need for professionals in Sergas. I knew it all; I knew it all, but they didn't want to act. They didn't want to act, because the roadmap is precisely that in primary care, where the human factor, the professionals, are the fundamental element, there has to be less professional so that there's a deteriorating primary care and it can fatten public health, because if there's no deteriorating primary health care, there's no increase in private health. That's why they didn't act and still don't act. It's true that more family doctors are needed and that it's a necessary measure of this increase, but since BNG we believe that not at any price, and that there are also many other measures that can be taken. That's why we've been presenting an amendment since BNG. It is the duty of the Council of Galicia to request this extraordinary training call. Because you have responsibilities for the Spanish Government, of course you do, and you want me to have. By the way, the People's Party applauds the ears every time it picks up some more competition, or when it gets into competitions that Galicia has, which is systematically putting its hand in the box of these competitions the Central Government, and you applaud the ears. They don't want to have competences to avoid accountability, and they have competences, starting with the non-replacement rate elimination. And I'm not going to go into Mr. Torrado's systematic demagogy about who voted in favour of that removal of the replenishment rate, because from time to time it would be good for a little consistency, wouldn't it? There are a lot of skills that can be exercised by the German Government. The first is to act in the field of training itself, because I suppose they won't want a low cost training. Of course, the BNG doesn't want training for low-cost public health professionals, and there can't be a reduction in training, the quality of training, especially if we want well-trained professionals in our health system. [[Applause]] Students and medical students have just manifested themselves -- they're manifesting themselves -- because they're eliminating their practices. Do we want professionals with no practice and no proper training? Of course, at the BNG, no. That's why we believe that we can't believe everyone, not all health centers can believe for that training, because they don't meet the conditions. You need to have physical space to accommodate those professionals who are going to form, and you need to have enough staff to form those professionals, to have enough tutors. That's why we are presenting this amendment, in which, in the first part, what we ask is that we guarantee the ability and quality of teachers to attend the training of MIR professionals, firstly, to carry out a census of which are accredited health centres or conditions for sealing both in spaces and in professionals, and for the coverage of professional vacancies so that they can exercise tutors, because I have to remind them that to exercise tutors or tutors have to be in practice for the four years of training, and right now there is a very important number of tutors and tutors who are not going to be four years old because they're retireing. For that, we have to act and we have to call these squares. We also need to commit to the budgetary level. And we also have to act -- and you can act -- on many other issues to solve the problem of the lack of professionals. The first is to develop a human resources management plan. Mr. Torrado says that more will be convened this year and that the previous year, but the question is to know how many are needed, what is the situation, what are the human resources Sergas has to know if those who are summoned are sufficient or if it turns out that they are left. And we still don't have a human resources management plan that tells us how many professionals there are and how many will be needed in the years ahead. That is why we call for the immediate end of the policy of precariousness and exploitation in the recruitment process, and that we form 70, such as those that have ended this year, that the 70s remain in primary care, that they are not only 30 and 40 or that they do not want to stay in primary care because of the recruitment policy that the People's Party has. Forming seems like an important element, yes, but they're left, too, and you're acting so they won't stay. We trained them to leave for the foreigner or to march for the private. We do a round business. What can be done? Put in place a plan for the re-capture of professionals who left. With what? With policies to offer stable recruitment, with incorporating into the portfolio of primary care services precise categories, beyond family medicine -- such as clinical psychology, occupational therapists, who can also handle a very important part of primary care demand -- by starting the portfolio of services so that all professionals who are competent to exercise these skills, such as nurses, physiotherapists, matrons, clinical psychologists, etc. You can take care of your service wallet and you don't have to go through everything with your family doctor. All of this can be done by the People's Party at Galician Union, in addition to demanding more MIR squares. So it's very good to lay down other people's duties, but it would be a lot better to do what one depends on to alleviate and improve the situation of primary care, which is dramatic right now. The rest, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are orchestral maneuvers in the dark, distracting maneuvers, having us entangled in building that account of who is the culprit and, in the meantime, the problem is not solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u123	Good afternoon again. Thank you very much, President. Mr. Torado, of course I'm glad of the good news. I am also glad that I have just seen it now: "The Supreme Court endorses the measure agreed upon by the Junta in August, which required the passport covered to access bars and restaurants in Galicia." I'm so glad about that! [[Mrs. Amigo Díaz reads news.]] And I'm also glad... good news cheers us all up. [[Applause]] But, well, I'm sorry that it's always the same speech, the same mantra, the same catastrophe as ever... we, Mr. Torrado, don't ask for illegalities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's not our style, don't be wrong. We're a serious party, we don't commit troupels; everything we're asking for is within the law. To rule the basis of decrees law to the convenience of that know other parties. We've been asking for an extraordinary call from MIR for a long time, and together with this we've been asking for tutors, because we know that without training it's not possible; that is, it goes with the other. Mrs. Prado, I'll tell you the same thing again: there's no worse deaf than what you don't want to hear. We're tired of saying everything we're doing, all improvements. We've had a problem for a long time, obviously, and of course, I'm not going to enter here in the speech of "and you bad," and much less on such a sensitive subject as health care. We have an obligation to try to improve the living conditions of our fellow citizens, and of course there was a lack of foresight in the training of specialists, which is undeniable. The problem is there, and we have to try to solve it. I'm not going to repeat the arguments I moved to my first intervention, but of course it's the Government of Spain who has the possibility to put the solution to the problem, if there's any will to do so, of course. And, of course, data, so, look, private medicine has been talked about here... well, the Board of Auditors always says that we have better data in private medicine than they had in the Bipartite with that diversion. In the Bipartite, 73% of the squares were covered; with the PP, we covered 100%. The data is there. What can't be seen here, at the parliamentary headquarters, to spill lies, to miss the truth and to tell falsehoods. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have good health care, which is, of course, improved, with a system that has worked well for many years for a particular context, but now it's another context, it's changed demographic reality and there's also different pathologies, more patients with more chronicity and more difficulty, the lack of professionals. That is there, this is a reality that we must move forward, and we must adapt to these new changes so that we can continue to function well over the next few decades. The Greek Government is sensitive to the new needs of citizenship and designs the mechanisms to make the necessary changes. We continue to advance in almost all of the conquests of the primary care plan 2019-2021, with more means, by a primary vertebrate medicine of the health system. All this has been explained, ladies and gentlemen. There's a huge difference between the PP government, which manages and governs with discretion, and an opposition that, year after year, if you do what you do, they continue to lie and say the same catastrophic speech. But, ladies and gentlemen, Greek citizenship also takes note of this and calls after summoning choose what is best for you. This is evidence, and we can all see the reality of the GNP that we bring today: that today the squares are insufficient and that increasing this call does not depend on the Council of Galicia. That's why we continue to urge the Government of Spain to eliminate that rate of replacement, because this is a legal impediment that makes it impossible to convene thousands of squares in all categories. Today, ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to join this request that we make from Galicia to try to improve our public health system. It would be a pity that we didn't all agree on such a sensitive subject as this and that it would allow us to correct important health problems. Our will is to reach a consensus in this House on such an important issue. We are going to propose a transaction with regard to the amendments they have tabled, without renouncing our fundamental request, which is more extraordinary MIR squares and extraordinary training skills, without which we are unable to assume more places of internal doctors. We think this is essential to continue to advance in the improvement of health, so we are willing to accept the points that the Socialist Party proposes as addition, not as a replacement, with some mating, like, for example, the continuity contract of up to three years, but not as a specific geographic location, but as a specific geographic scope, because if you hire them to cover things in a region, not for a specific health center, because then we couldn't make the substitutions. And here, with this commitment from Junta, we added a pending commitment from the Central Government, to which all the PSOE communities voted in favour of an interterritorial council in April 2018, and that the PSOE forgot, which is to change the regulation decree of the resident labour relationship to regulate a type of contract to encourage the retention of specialists in difficult-to-cover squares. This contract continues unregulated. I'll pass the transaction to you now. And with regard to BNG amendments, as far as MIR training is concerned, we have no problem accepting three of its four points. As far as the rest of the points are concerned, at some we're already working, and almost all of us have discussed them, but we don't incorporate them specifically into this, because they don't have to do with MIR's extraordinary offer. And in what we agree, that we are discussing it in our own LNP -- and that's the only thing we agree on -- it's in relation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u125	...with the terms of the contracts, and this is already proposed to you in the transaction. I hope to come to an agreement. I'm going to pass the transaction proposal now and I'm going to leave a copy to the president as well. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u126	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law by G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and six other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia before the Central Government to undermine the electricity bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u127	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u128	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u129	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Well, we're still talking about the unsustainable situation of the price of light in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we ended the session in July, talking about the light in this Plenary, a price at that time of 100 euros the megawatt/hour, and we started again, in September, with a price above 150 euros the megawatt; a historical record to which the Central Government seems to be used. By the way, tomorrow he'll still hit another one, which is 174 euros the megavatio/hour. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the government of records: records in wages, records in ministers, records in prices of light, and the worst record is in the abandonment of the Spaniards in the face of a problem that affects everyone, especially the most vulnerable. And they're going for months without taking any effective action. And all of this increase in light has undoubtedly caused an increase in IPC, up to 3.3 %, the highest since October 2012. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the light rises more than 200 %, that rises the fuels by 25%, that rises the insurances of the houses and the cars, that rises the quotas of the autonomous ones, that rises the quotas of the autonomous ones and that, unfortunately, rises the basket of purchase. They promise help never to reach the smallest entrepreneurs. This, PSdeG gentlemen, is your concept of fair recovery? Look, we've been listening for weeks to excuses from a government that has become incapable, because until now it's only put temporary patches that allow you to lower the bill of light by just over 10%, when the climb is 200%. Yes, it is capable of raising more than €3,000 million in higher taxes related to the light rate, which it could use to adopt measures that immediately lower the light and continue to thousands of consumers. But the Government's recommendations are that we have to wait years for its structural measures -- structural measures, I insist -- to solve the problem; measures such as yesterday's adoption of the Sustainability Fund, which in all light will increase the costs of, for example, fuels. It is a sovereign government because it does not accept reasoned proposals from the main opposition party, ambitious proposals that would already lower the light by 20%. And we do not ask for illegal proposals or contrary to European legislation, such as the nationalisation of companies or market intervention. Yes, this morning you approved measures and proposals from which we will see their legality. It's a government that lies because it blames everyone, the European Union, Russia, even Rajoy, who hasn't ruled for more than three years. Look, they've been ruling for three years and other laws if they've changed them, PSdeg gentlemen -- it looks like the lady of the BNG laughs -- why not those of the electric sector? Look, ladies and gentlemen, the price of gas has marked the price of our electricity, which is deeply dependent on natural gas that we have to import, which the European Union has to import. Our energy mix is no longer diversified. The early closure of nuclear and thermal power plants is not offset by the integrations of renewable energy into the electrical system, which has led to a high dependence on combined cycle plants operating with gas. They disconnected from the technology system that previously marked prices, such as thermals, before ensuring the integration of renewables from the point of view of ensuring energy storage to reduce their main problem when there is a shortage of wind, water or sun. Let's see what happens to the nuclear after the measurements this morning, and let's see if, in the end, gentlemen, we don't suffer cuts of light. For an idea to be made, the renewable generation covered 50% of the average demand, despite the increase in photovoltaic in July; but it is that wind has fallen to almost 8% due to the lack of sales. Therefore, neither the generation of renewable energy nor the import of electricity, mainly nuclear, has been sufficient; having to incorporate gas from combined cycles in most of the times; gas which rose by 500 %, from EUR 7.5 to more than EUR 50 megawatt/hour. It therefore impacts 50 % on the wholesaler market light price. Another cause also, to a lesser extent, are the emission rights, which cause about 20% of the bill's rise. And let's not forget, gentlemen, that the combined cycle plants are paying the gas up to 500 % more and that they also have to pay the emission rights. So, obviously, we don't agree with this energy intransaction that we want to be subjected to from the central government, erratic and chaotic, which is causing all Spaniards to pay much more. Again, ladies and gentlemen, a socialist government that destroys an energy system. It happened with Zapatero, and the 30 billion-euro hole of system tariff deficit, for wanting to accelerate renewables at a time when they were not mature, and it happens again now. The data, ladies, are there. Even though gas prices are high all over Europe, France or Germany are not suffering this escalation of the price of light on a daily basis. France, with a 70% nuclear generation, does not depend on gas, and even with its sales it contributes to Spain's not having to take much more out of the gas. It only depended on France's gas by 2%, and Germany, which leads renewables, yes, but with a backing of more than 25% of coal. He only took out of the gas at 8%; Spain at 18%. Conclusion. In this terrible escalation of electricity prices, both countries had 40 percent cheaper light. Once again an example of the scourge that we carry in our economy in opposition to countries around us, similar to what happens in the electrointensive industry. Yes, added to this volatility of the wholesale market, the inopportunity of the central government was capital. He set up a change of rates that promised the cheapest light at night and weekends, forcing us all and everyone not to sleep to put the washing machine, ironing... once again he lied, because that wasn't fulfilled, and those hours are now 35% more expensive. This inappropriate change of tariff system and the rise in the wholesale price of light constituted the perfect storm that causes the suffering of domestic consumers, welcomed to the voluntary price for the small consumer. But it will also affect all contracts on the free market that are renewed or signed from now on, millions of people. And, obviously, not only does it affect the electric bill, but it's causing the global increase in the prices of goods and services. And the reality is that the only thing that wins here with this whole climb is the Central Government, which is going to collect the triple CO2 tax, reaching up to EUR 3,000 million, which should have an impact, without taking structural reform measures, on the electrical system, and not today, PSdEG lords, months ago. That line goes to our self-amendment proposal. They are measures that can be implemented immediately and supported in time, such as to promote fiscal reform so that the tax taxation of the invoice that Spain supports is harmonised on the lines of the average taxes of the countries around us. For that, at our first point, we call for the permanent reduction of VAT from 21% to 10%, amending Law 37/1992 on value added tax for that. Secondly, we call for a definitive abolition of the tax imposed by 7% on electricity production, amending the Law of 2012; a law which has been in force for more than eight years, in which there has been a great deal of evolution in electricity technology and its interaction with the gas and coal markets, as well as the intensification of the climate commitments assumed for the decarbonization of the economy, which requires an energy transition that incorporates regulation into the structural transformations of markets, so as to continue to safeguard the security of supply and economic efficiency. In this way, we also request in our 3rd point the transfer to general state budgets of regulated costs of the electricity tariff, such as: the debt of the electrical system and extrapensular costs, as already done with other costs derived from interterritorial solidarity. We believe that the Sustainability Fund, which will begin to process at Congress -- it will take more than a year -- will impact by raising other supplies, such as fuel. Fourthly, we propose to extend the price for the small consumer to powers equal to 15 kilowatts, when they are now 10; which also limits access to the Social Bonus. In fact, there are studies conducted by the Association of Autonomouss that indicate that 75% would be out of power over 10 kilowatts, like small businesses with 15 if they would come in. Fifthly, we call for the regulated tariff, the PVPC, of the volatility of the wholesale market; an important measure that would achieve that the price of most consumers was decoupled from the daily price of light. Sixthly, we also propose to push down the electrical bill through the time frame review, to the extent that the period from Monday to Friday -- in which the rate is cheaper, which goes from 12 o'clock in the evening to 8 o'clock in the morning -- makes it very difficult to save for families. It's very hard to suppose that families will save when the cheapest prices are on that slot; I'd suppose they'd change their habits to wash, iron or cook at night; and let's not talk, ladies, about what's going to happen here, in Galicia, when winter comes and you'll have to turn on the heating, which will only be able to light at night. In seventh place, more specific weight must be given to the term of energy than the term of power, with the objective of boosting energy efficiency and electrical self-consumption. Currently, 40 % of the collection of regulated costs corresponds to the variable part, and 60 % remaining to the fixed part, which delays the depreciation of self-consumption facilities and discourages investments in demand management. It must be remembered that Spain is the EU country with the highest weight in the fixed part of the invoice, 39 % against the European average, which is 22 %. Eighth place, we're asking the invoices to be cleared. The bills, if they were complex before, are now much more. They should be simplified so that any consumer can understand them and actually allow them to save themselves in their consumption tranches. Four sheets of bill! Unable to understand for most. And lastly, we call for diversification of the power generation park to avoid excessive dependence on gas, introducing effective measures that favor energy storage for renewable sources management. Spain, and specifically Galicia, have made a high economic effort to increase the production of renewable energy, but the reality is that we are seeing as an abrupt transition in this sense, before having a minimal solution to manage these technologies, it puts us at a high price of light that citizens cannot afford again. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that there is a need for a greater stake in this field so that these so-called European funds can really help in this field, where Galicia has already put forward proposals without receiving any reply from the Central Government. These, ladies and gentlemen, are serious and rights-friendly proposals, which would result in the immediate decline of the bill of light by 20%. Let us hope that this time if the German Socialist Group joins and puts itself on the side of the Greeks and not on the side of Mr Sánchez, and the BNG, who actually joins legal proposals and not illegal proposals, as they constantly propose. Nothing else on my part and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u131	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Of course, this debate is more than necessary, but after hearing the statement of reasons it seems that at this hour it has not opened any national or even international digital medium, because it is precisely a proposal in which action is requested by the central government, which is necessary, indeed, but they are asking for measures, when we have passed a real decree in which you do not come into question at any time. But that's right, they're already moving forward and they say, we don't know it well, but we'll see legally and legally if it doesn't matter. We already know what the popular party's position is in the face of the necessary and ambitious measures adopted, so much so that they are asking today to undermine the future of light. The explanatory statement has not changed anything from yesterday to today, and it is part of this political rhetoric of an argumentary that is held on many occasions, but what it does also, indeed, right now, is to illustrate the real reason whether they want to speak today or not of the price of light. Of course, concrete measures to solve a problem, no. But we said that of course we have to talk about this issue, that of course we have a problem and that of course it is not reasonable what we are living every day, one day after another, with this price of light in the wholesale market, reaching peaks and effectively hitting a new brand every day. Of course it's necessary, but there -- it said -- it's that real decree, these concrete measures that are in addition to that package in which the state has been working for months. And today it has news -- as we said -- of great silence, unpublished decisions -- and it's not a qualification that puts today the PSdEG or the Socialist Party --, as it is opening a debate -- I imagine that's where the shots will go; it's a melon that hasn't opened up until now -- where we can get there to prevent some of the big companies being multiplied their benefits at the expense of citizens and citizens. Because you neither of the concrete measures today -- as I said -- neither of the companies say one word. Today we know that the measures approved will allow the bill to be reduced by not by 20% at the end of the year, as you ask, but by 22% at the end of the year. Today we know that the benefits of companies will be limited by March, and that it is also about containing, in addition to the next few months, this spiral of unprecedented ups and ups that threaten, in addition, to continue to be present. But in the whole debate, if we don't want to fall into demagogic or merely political mud, we have to find out where we are. You were talking about giving nothing but information. If we take the international press and the European press, we are faced with this problem of receiving light. Of course, information neither arranges nor does it mean that this is a comfort or removes the daily agony of those who observe the price of megawatt every day, but partly illustrates how the energy market is being behaved and evolving internationally. They're wholesale prices -- as we said -- shot across Europe. The Government is requesting and leading a coordinated and common response in Brussels. But if we can't act on international markets, if we can do what we have competences, to alleviate the effects of the social bill, by increasing six months more the four already existing protection measures to avoid supply cuts in the most vulnerable homes, and also fiscal powers -- the comrade Torrado spoke about the MIR, about the coherence and heritage of the People's Party --. Now you are asking to freeze and eliminate taxes that, precisely, have the People's Party's Sanctuary and Sign: the approved reductions from 21% to 10% a month ago, the suspension of the 7% tax, extended today... let's talk about measures. Today it has also been approved the reduction of the special electricity tax, from 5.1 % to 0.5 %, which is the minimum that the European Union can afford. Look, there's a lot of talk in the light. Of course it's necessary -- we said -- but we could -- as I said --, speaking of coherence, starting by remembering that the pox model that is at the origin of the rise of the tariff was precisely designed by the Executive of Mariano Rajoy in 2013, and approved in 2014. It was the People's Party Industry Minister, José Manuel Soria, who at that time pushed and defended the immense kindness that the price of light would be linked to the fluctuations of every hour in the market. You're also going through -- you have to make real balances, the truth -- the fact that the tax on electricity generation -- this famous 7% that they intend to permanently suppress now -- was created by Minister Soria in December 2012; a legacy that is now dragging us. Look, the person responsible -- that's right -- is the current government, which is what must correct and act on this problem; it's the one responsible, but they don't forget that this regulatory system was established in the Executive of Mariano Rajoy, with all the opposition against it. Now, when you're in opposition, you don't like the same taxes you've devised, pushed and praised. But of course, in addition to taxation -- because what we're proposing is that we always get rid of it, get rid of the public archives, which is the same --, today what we need to value is, exactly, what I was saying earlier: that it's not for anything to be received that companies that have multiplied their profits at the moment are still exponentially without assuming the part that corresponds to them. And today the progressive government is firmly walking to derive part of these extraordinary benefits and that they bring back to consumers. [[Applause]] When before a government and a government president -- do they pick up the covers, as it said, of many newspapers -- did they show so firmly the decision to bring benefits across different channels to power companies? When? Citizens and citizens know now that this government is going to act to force electricity companies to return approximately EUR 2.6 billion - 2.600 million - from revenues linked to the rise of natural gas. I do not expect, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, to applaud this measure, but I do hope that, since it is so much requested from the BNG to act directly against these companies that are being enriched by this step, it is also worth this measure adopted at the Council of Ministers today. There are therefore concrete measures, there is an official criticism against abusive practices, action to return some of these corporate benefits and there is also a commitment as measurable as expressed by the President of the Government with all these measures so that at the end of this year the receipt is the equivalent of the payment in 2018, with savings, and containing these subsidies, as it said, above 20 %, as you ask, and with an estimated 47% reduction in homes and around 25% in industry. Concrete, clarity, but we can't, on a subject like that -- obviously, it wouldn't be serious -- fall into the favor we're living with, and they're suffering from as much autonomy as small and medium-sized enterprises. And that's why there's also more quiet measures, in addition to taxation and the reduction in corporate income, structural and environmental measures. They show that the concern for consumers and consumers is real. They have an opportunity to do so at the Congress of Deputies, where two bills have already been moved, which will act on the unpaid remuneration of CO2 from the electricity market, and what the National Sustainability Fund of the Electric System creates, because it will progressively reduce the final receipt of consumers. Today, with these measures, those that are passed today and those that are in processing, as he said, and with his speech -- we don't come in to talk about them -- and with this non-law proposal calling for measures in general and asking for action only in taxation, I think it is illustrated -- as it was -- and reflect what is the real intention of speaking in this political course of a problem that is real, as is the bill of light. There are the necessary policies. Obviously, he said that there must be an impulse to a just and necessary transition, which is the bottom line of the matter, and to walk towards a clean and more democratic energy system. And you must be responsible, Mrs. Novoa. You, in the debate with my comrade Martín this morning, speaking of the Greek electric tariff, spoke of negationism, and took a picture in general in this debate. I can't resist saying that it's not too appropriate and timely that you in the People's Party talk about negationism, having two of your party referents with hemerothecs who even turned the world around, like Mr. Aznar, when he said that "ecology is the new communism," or when from the FAES Foundation there is not so much support for publishing books that deny climate change. But they don't talk about negationism or climate change or renewables, because we don't have to go that far, if we talk about negationism. [[Applause]] Mr. Aznar, yes, but also Mr. Rajoy. I don't know if you remember that cousin I had, physically, who said there was no way to see that about climate change. Finally, let's be serious, let's talk about measures, and let's talk about something that worries people, about agreeing, about recognizing what needs to be recognised, about doing the necessary approaches, but we don't get political argumentary because, in days like today, you're getting a lot of inquisitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The first thing I want to say is that I am glad that now if we can debate this issue, because in the morning we had to hear that this was a matter for the Congress of Members and that a matter so important to our country seems that no proposals could be made in this House. It must be that it disturbs the unequal degree of realization of the different proposals and that therefore the perception was different. In any case, by going to the issue, precisely linking the debate today morning, our spokesperson, Ana Pontón, began by recalling that today, September 14, the price of the megawatt hour would have an average of 153.43 euros per hour, and indicated how a year ago it was 43 megawatts/hour. An increase of more than 350 % in a year. Well, actually, I've been reading today's headlines and I've been looking at the data from IMOE, which provides for tomorrow's price, and by tomorrow we're going to have a maximum price of historical light -- again, following that star from August, which continues this September -- of 172.78 euros megavatio/hour, with peaks of 180.30 euros megavatio/hour. So here, the state parties voted in the square for proposals that could bring a differential strategy, both at the state level, in terms of specific reductions and specific issues, such as removing certain taxes that nothing has to do with the bill system, even country-key proposals, such as that Welsh electric tariff, and voting for a hook that does not. And in the meantime, this is what happens. The measures of the Socialist Party's Government, which are always formulated in terms of the future, are regular, are going to be reduced, etc., but they never happen to conjugate in the present or in the past, and they continue to fail, because they are going to be implemented in the medium term, and the proposals of the People's Party are generic and they don't implement a country strategy either. So the same ones that talked about that some of us formulate magic solutions, because, in fact, what they're bringing here is abstract solutions that are always something to relieve each of these parties' responsibility to reach this point. That's the point. And today we also see the latest IPC data coming out of the headlines, and what we're told is that the bill of light has risen by 35% almost in the year we've been in, by 35%. Mrs. Teresa Ribera herself now encrypted that they are waiting for "the future," not immediately, to get a 22% discount on the bill of light in the coming months. Obviously, it's insufficient, and it's something that already gives the minister his own data. This is the biggest inflation we've had since 2012. There are forecasts of organizations of all kinds, including consumer associations, or the OCU itself, which establish that during about this 2021 we already have an increase of some 139 euros in our bill of light, and, of course, there are proposals that today embrace the People's Party, or partial, very partially, the Socialist Party, such as that issue of the special tax of electricity, which they could well have arbitrated since the month of January, and just as that climb was not so large. In any case, we insist, there's a margin for further reduction. Among other reasons, because here we see demagoxies as selling as a great social advance that the downside of the IVE to 10% will continue until the end of the year, when really by rising the price of electricity is rising the collection of the IVE, it is rising the collection of that special tax of electricity and, therefore, by very supermegaprogre that this is going to be reduced, actually, the state's ark is increasing and there would be more capacity to reduce this bill. Because, besides -- we insist --, it's an invoice that 3/4 is tax burden and that Brussels itself, which often reduces the decision-making capacity not only of Galicia, but of the state itself, recognizes this extreme. So there would be more margin and capacity and not lack of political will. Just as it is very well and it remains very poetic to come here to talk about demagogy, but there is no more demagogy than to criticize the framework set by the People's Party and that no socialist government has changed, but neither yesterday nor today. Because the measures adopted to the thread of the Sustainability Fund, or those announced today at the Council of Ministers, do not entail a substantive change and are, in addition, late. [[Applause]] And so we're still critical and critical because, in addition, it's going to have problems arising, like what's already come out here on the matter of natural gas. We'll see in six months, when we're still in the winter, and natural gas continues to rise and there's not that suspected protective shield that's going to happen. So this is the question, and while, the People's Party is on its particular planet, which beats records. Today Mrs Novoa spoke of many records here, but it is that the record of cynicism that hits the People's Party every time the energy issue is dealt with in this Parliament is already above everything and because of it. You continue with your negationism: nothing that happens is the responsibility of the People's Party, neither what you did in the state, nor the lack of the political capacity of Mr. Núñez Feijóo to defend the Greek interests. You are here for divine spores, you have no responsibility whatsoever. And then, above being the champions of Adamism, they're sometimes a little lazy, too. It's a shame that they've been self-amended and it's still a little hidden, because I, when I saw a proposal from the People's Party that basically was to tell the state that it's good and that it lowers the bill of light, that it was 38 words -- that didn't even come up to the word per Member, so much that they like you......presuming the number of Members, because I've got a little annotated. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños laughs.]] [[Applause]] I have already said: Mr. Casado will definitely not let you bring to this Parliament any proposal that has to do with Madrid, and you are totally unauthorized. In any case, of course, you came here and painted a speech like who you have some very elaborate and super-innovative proposals, and that the rest of us are on the mountain and we never support them. And, look, you don't bring on this initiative a single proposal that in the last few months of this Parliament has not been brought and has not supported the Nationalist Block of Wales. But it's just that, Mrs. Novoa, in the face of an absolutely extreme situation of inflation, of economic crisis, of rising prices, of electricity to the ground, absolutely, by doing what they're doing in this country, they can't come with the same recipes as they always do. And, therefore, this issue is clearly insufficient. And what proves is that having the Government of the People's Party, even if it governs the Socialist Party in the State, is no use to us, because you make a florist government and don't bring serious proposals here neither to Congress of the People's and the Deputies, nor much less despite the fact that sometimes it seems that a certain almost independentism just to confront Madrid. Well, that's not even good for you to really defend the interests of this country. This is the summary of the situation. So we continue with a legalized scam that is explained by the board of directors, to those who go after each other, and while the profits of electricians multiply by billions we see an absolutely extreme situation at the country level and at the social level. I simply want to recall here the figures of Naturgy, Iberdrola and Endesa, which reached 80 % of the private consumer market: Naturgy, 490 million euros of net profits; Endesa, 1,394 and Iberdrola, 3,610. But really, what kind of hairstyle is this so you don't take really hard measures? And besides, what's happening today shows that it didn't act in the past, but neither one nor the other. It is that in 2012 CNMC itself has already sanctioned Iberdrola for manipulating the prices of electric energy with emptying of frames, one that affected the Sil River. What we're living through is we've lived it and it hasn't been corrected because it didn't work and because neither do regulators work properly. Those same fines are still pending that the Supreme tells you. That's a real shame, and you contribute to maintaining shame when you deny a debate to make a fundamental modification of the electrical system as proposed in the amendment that BNG presents. It's as basic matters as changing the way to fix the price of light. I think it is wonderful that the Socialist Party now joins this criticism, but they have had time in the past and have time in this mandate of Mr Sánchez and now have time to take account of the proposals we have put here or in the Congress of Members. We put proposals on the table to correct that taxation permanently, and we also put proposals on the table to give a country debate. Because, in the end, what we are living in is also in the midst of a crisis that is deeper than the conjunctural crisis of the coward-19, which has to do with the change that this planet has to make, not this country, in the face of the climate emergency. And then the question is whether Galicia takes advantage of its potential and leads or expects others to do it for it, and whether we continue to put the resource without receiving benefits in return. So we insist on turning these two ideas around: that electricity has to be a public good and a basic asset guaranteed to citizenship and that our country, by placing the resource, has to have compensation. We'll keep insisting on it. And all the rest will be literature when, precisely, these headlines occupy the covers related to the energy market. For some and others will have to come here, to this Parliament, to make a pim, pam, pom, to blame themselves if the People's Party is more guilty or if it is more guilty of the Socialist Party. But we are in another phase, and what we want is that this moment of crisis, this moment of change, is also a moment of opportunity at the country level. We will continue to insist that the energy debate has to be key and that there are only two options: either to stand on the side of this country or to follow the side of the big electricians. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u135	Thank you, President. Mrs. Otero, calm down, that I'm going to tell you now about the measures this morning, I've got the second round of replicas. Look, so many measures, as good measures to finally leave the price of light as that of the year 2018, which came from Mr. Rajoy's Government. So much invention, this whole system, to finally leave the price of light as we leave it when we rule, Mrs. Otero. Look, I appreciate you valuing Rajoy, we also value him, but you put him on a level-- look, Rajoy didn't create the Marxist electricity market; it's a European market, Mr. Rajoy didn't. I understand that you are new in these energy debates here, in this Parliament; then, I'm going to teach you a chart of the past, of that past that you also remembered. See this chart? This is the hole you've made; you know a lot about journalism. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a chart.]] Didn't you see this news, too? Is that so? You know what this is? The tariff deficit. You know how long there was when... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President, look. Mrs. Otero, I'm sorry if you bothered her allusion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u136	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u137	I'm telling you if you know this graph, which is the tariff deficit chart. This part is from Mr. Zapatero; 35,000 million euros that you have generated. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias marks a part of the graph with her hand.]] So, we, when we came to rule, of course we had to take steps to contain that deficit, Your Honor, of course, yes, that the laws of 2012 and 2013 and those taxes, which now, by the situation in which we are, we ask them to leave. It is only that we have evolved, as Mrs. Presas has said here, that we have evolved; those who do not evolve are you, Mrs. Presas, who continue to ask for illegal proposals. Look, Mrs. Otero, I will value you two of your measures. Today morning... speaking of this deficit, we'll soon see another deficit, that of the gas tariff. The gas will see another tariff deficit. Let's see how it holds that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u138	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u139	I can't venture what's going to happen to you today, but our valuation is that, that we're going to see another tariff deficit, this time of gas. We'll see what the problem is. And the second measure is, who's got the money? The tax to be removed, which is 0.5%, is a tax that will revert to the autonomous communities. So, who if they're going to draw money again, money, it's the communities. Yes, those are two of the measures, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Totally, to go back to the price of the electricity of 2018, which you don't count as high. It wasn't a cheap price, but, well, I appreciate that they want to go back to the year in which we left the Government. Very well, Mrs. Otero. Look, Mrs. Presas, you're talking about evolution, but we've evolved technologically. Those who don't evolve are you, those who keep asking for the same proposals of the year. I don't know what and I don't know of what century. I've explained it this morning, with economic data, those that you don't have, or that you don't have, or that you don't study. I'll explain this morning quite claret, and I won't repeat it again, and it would be ruinous for the Greeks, Mrs. Presas. So those who don't evolve are you. Nationalize companies? This isn't Venezuela, Mrs. Presas. You ask us to nationalize the embassies. [[Murmurs.]] They put on a sign...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u140	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u141	...to the weekend there to nationalize... No, this isn't Venezuela, and we don't want the Spaniards who cut us off. You look like, in the end, what they're trying to do is cut us off, which, perhaps, is what happens if you finally, gentlemen, turn off nuclear as well, because they've already disconnected the thermals in advance. Yes, the two, accomplices... yes, Mrs. Presas, you voted for Mr. Sánchez, you have him sitting in Madrid, and they have signed the pact of Ana and Adriana, and there, Your Honor, they have initialled the end of the thermals. Yes, Mrs. Presas, that's the reality. Look, the truth is, do you know what it is? This is a family electricity bill -- for nothing rich -- that pays 104 euros in August. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a bill of electricity.]] This is the reality of many families, ladies and gentlemen, this one. What's PSOE doing? What have you done, Mrs. Otero, that you read the whole press? What's he doing? It's just you read the one from now on in the afternoon, you don't read the press every day and you don't see the suffering that families, self-employed people and pemes are going through in the context of the crisis we have. It's just that they can't come here today to take the measures they've adopted today, pressured by the insatiable situation that we're living of 180 euros megawatts/time that there's going to be tomorrow, that they haven't got any more remedy, because otherwise they wouldn't do anything, because they haven't done anything for months, Mrs. Otero. They approved the measure of the LVI's descent because they were suffocated, and now they're taking these out, and we'll see what legal consequences we're going to have. I really do, I hope... and I don't threaten anyone, but I hope the light lowers families, especially those most in need. [[Murmurs.]] And for that, these are our proposals, legal proposals. We didn't ask for any nationalization or market intervention, but we asked for a lot of things. You think I didn't read the whole self-amendment, I don't think so. There are tax cuts, there is a transfer of costs to state budgets, which you don't want, you prefer to take them to the Sustainability Fund...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u143	...and, in the end, it will cause us to pay more expensive fuel. So we can't share those proposals with you, of course not. Let's see if today's measurements really lower the bill of light and we don't have to be talking again within a few days of the price of light. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u144	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u145	Cumulative debate on non-legislative proposals number 4 and 5 of the agenda: Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the measures to be taken by the Junta of Galicia to prevent the closure of banking offices and guarantee the right to basic financial services Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia to regulate the banking sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u146	The non-legislative proposal by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group and another by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and by the initiative of the Nationalist Block of Galicia an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u147	To formulate the non-law proposal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u148	Good afternoon to all, ladies and gentlemen. This is an initiative that has to do with what is going on in this country recently, which is the continuous closure of banking offices, especially in small municipalities; also in urban areas, but with serious impact on many citizens living in municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants, which, as we all know, in Galicia are many and in some provinces like Ourense, the vast majority. I think we all agree that it is or must be the public authorities who guarantee the entire citizenship the provision of basic services, as well as the basic services that relate to financial services, banking services, regardless of where they live. In this is founded social cohesion, territorial cohesion, that which the Galician Union says it defends, and as time passes, as the mandates pass and as the People's Party's Government spends years in the Galician Union we see as there are two Galicians: there's an absolutely unequal Galicia, there's a Galician that goes along a path, and there's a Galician that, of course, is on the way to extinction. We, in this matter, of the financial system, of course, are not communists. We do not advocate the nationalization of the bank as an element of solving such problems. We believe that the economic system obviously needs a robust financial system, a strong financial system, and in that logic we understand mergers, we also understand bank mergers, and we also understand that banks have to earn money. We do not question the market economy, but we do defend that state and public administration have to regulate and defend public services as an essential and fundamental element. What we can no longer admit under any concept -- at this time Galicia, this country, is not a specifically Greek context, but we are in Galicia and we have to talk about what's going on here -- is that the pandemic is being used, that the low profitability of financial institutions is being used to perform a draconian closure of bank offices, especially in small municipalities, which is leaving many citizens financially excluded from this country. I'm going to give some data, which is data taken from the Banco de España, which has to do with financial exclusion in this country and which makes it clear that there are already 250,000 Greeks and Greeks in Galicia who either have many difficulties or are already prevented from accessing the cash, their money. There are 45 municipalities in Galicia that don't have any bank offices anymore. Obviously, this is not the same throughout Galicia; it's an asymmetric situation. In the province of Ourense, there are 28 municipalities without a bank office, almost 9 % of the population has no access to a bank in their own municipality to a bank office, to carry out minimum management, including to raise money. And this has to do with the behavior, of course, of the financial institutions, of the set of financial institutions, and in particular, I am going to mention one, because it has the largest turnover in this country, which has the largest size of offices in this country and which is, in addition, fruit, final result, of a process of extinction of savings funds, which gave rise to a bank called Novagalicia Banco, which was later damaged in 2013 by EUR 1 billion to this entity, to the entity chaired by Mr. Escotet, Abanca, which is that since 2015 it has closed, until 2020, 110 workshops, but since April this year, of 2021, it closed or announced the closure in Carril, Vilaxoán, Vimianzo, Zas, Baña, Muñas, Forcarai, Fene, Cotobado, Cerdido, Mesão do Vento, Seixo, Campo Lameiro, Padenda, Quintela de Leirado, at this opportunity, at this time, at the Vice-Larado, in Laurado, and also indicates in a couple, in a couple, in a couple, and in this case. They're municipalities where the bank office closes and where it's the only one, in many cases, that there is. The question is, of course, nothing other than whether, at last, the Galician Union is demanding financial institutions, particularly this financial entity, some kind of social responsibility with that country, or whether it is simply on another issue. Because there are 66,000 Welsh since they have no access to any financial services in the area of their county. Galicia is the second autonomous community, after Castela-León, where there is more negative impact of citizens or where citizens have more difficulty in gaining access to cash. And here it is striking that, in the face of this situation, the solution of the Board is to encourage, in this case, financial institutions, to set up cash boxes in those municipalities where there are no banks, or where banks -- in this case Abanca -- have closed their office. Last week, in the Committee on Economics, Mr. Caamaño -- who is responsible for financial policy -- told us that Abanca would be adjudicating a contest where he would be given €2.8 million to install cashiers, precisely in those municipalities where Abanca has just closed the office. This is absolutely unacceptable, because it is an entity, in addition, that in recent years has had EUR 3,200 million of benefits. This entity, NovagaliciaBanko, was sold for EUR 1 billion. Banka won in the first year 1,157 million euros. At the same time in the pandemic he earned money, and in this semester he won 157 million euros. So it's not a question of the profitability of the financial system, in this case, which motivates the closure of these offices in the municipalities, it's the absolute absence of social responsibility with this country. In front of that, we asked the Galician Council in this committee, and today we also ask this Parliament to finally answer a question: if, in fact, the Galician Union puts Banca in a public or semi-public society to manage European funds, if the Galician Parliament and specifically the Galician Union give Banca a private university, can or can not the Galician Union claim social responsibility for this country? [[Applause]] That is what we have seen in this initiative, which the Council of Galicia actually demands from this entity and the rest of those who do not close offices, who do not continue to close offices in the municipalities of the country, especially in the municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants, where it lives a percentage of the most important population of over 65 years, which is excluded from the actual possibility of accessing the electronic bank; that from which they are driving directly from Bank to citizens. We ask you not to continue to close offices, we ask the Board to promote a political negotiation, political measures with this entity and other entities so that they do not close, so that they reopen the offices, and that the Galego Consumo Institute also play its role in developing a basic service letter so that consumers and consumers in Greece have and know what their rights in this area are. Besides, we're not unaware of reality, we know that this also requires a regulatory and legislative change. So we also ask the Government of the State, of the State, to legislate in this sense to avoid the financial exclusion of the citizens of Greece who live in small towns, who live in urban municipalities and who are excluded from basic services as a result of the closure of offices. This is the initiative we put to the vote. And these municipalities where offices close don't necessarily have a certain political color, we've seen the mayors of the People's Party recently demanding what I do here today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. There are certain situations in life in which it is usually said that sometimes the cure is worse than disease, and in this case we are on one of those occasions where it was better than the Government of the People's Party was still, without doing anything, as usual, than trying to do something, because that remedy is worse than disease. The question here is that there is a major problem, there is a fundamental restructuring and conversion of the banking sector, and this brings with it many problems, both in the social sphere and in the labour field and also in the economic field. I'd like to refer briefly to some of them. We're talking about work drama because we're seeing a new precipitation of closures and disposal of services. That also brings a lot of layoffs. We have seen recently, just in the last month, the case of Sabadell: ERE for 1,900 workers and more than 30 less offices in Galicia; a similar situation in figures and offices went to BBVA and to Caixa Bank; we also saw Abanca, in recent months, only in September, closed offices such as San Valentín, Zas, Lameiro Bay, Baña, Campo Lameiro, San Juan de Río, Paderanda, etc., but before many others, drop the drop, and more will come. Months earlier we also started this year 2021 with the consumption of Santander's ERE, one more step in the loss of financial muscle in our country. This time, 79 workshops and nearly 400 jobs less in Galicia. This is the reality. Since the financial crisis began in 2008 until now, Galicia has lost more than 51% of our country's offices. There were about 2,500 in that year and at the beginning of the pandemic there were 1,300, and going down. I want to draw attention here to a question. We are facing a process that is very profound and does not at all affect that image that is tried to be put on the side of the Galician Union, too, that this is four rural municipalities. Even if they were four rural municipalities, it would be a first-order political and social problem, but it's a problem that affects the whole country, it's also an urban problem. And I put here again, above this House, the example of the city of Ourense, my hometown, the neighborhood of the Twenty and one, with 30,000 inhabitants, the most populous neighborhood. In recent months, offices have been closed there in Santander and Abanca. They've already started in the pandemic, in the first confinement, doing it. And there are 30,000 inhabitants. Of these entities, which monopolize the Greek market, there are only two offices. There are other banks, like Targobank, for example, that are going to close in October and that are sending a letter to all their customers telling them that their reference office is going to be in Coruña, 200 kilometers away -- 200 kilometers away from your reference office! --. And yet, without going into any other side issues, like that phenomenon of turning the bank into big call centers with other working conditions and less guarantees for the clientele. But we say that, in addition to a work drama, it's a social drama too, because all of this is moving forward with new scams. These days there were scams in the cybernetic field, but we can also talk about the scams that the bank itself is making, trying to put back products, insurance, making practices of exclusion of those customers who are not profitable, and look!, an unreproachable customer for Abanca -- as its own name -- today is someone who has less than 50,000 euros in his bank account, which is unfortunately not so common in our country's Welsh and Germans either. And they're making questions like the cash timetable pact, and neither do state regulators do anything, because they're the Banco de España and CNMC just as they were in the 2008 crisis with their arms crossed and sleeping the sleep of the just ones, and so we go. This is also an economic drama, because we see what happens, while, in addition, it emigrations the Greek economy out of our country. Today, this differential between credits and deposits in our country is advancing, and there's almost 30,000 million euros -- more than two joint budgets of the Union -- of the Greek savings that goes for investment outside the country. I suppose that's what they'll tell us it's the fault of the Greeks, that we're poor. Yeah, no, what we're doing is impoverished by this centralist and colonial model. The same, exactly the same, with the debate on the electrical system that we had at the previous point. This is a very serious conversion situation. And what do the German Government and the state do? Well, basically, it's going to get worse. They're not looking elsewhere anymore, they're still saving the banking sector. That's what they're doing with the ICO credits and the management of European funds. And you're no longer happy with that, they're looking for new formulas of filling even more the bank's arks, when they're closing services uniquely and exclusively to increase a benefit they already have and they just want to increase by wear. At the Galician Summit it seemed little to give the first private university in our country to Abanca, with its own name, it seemed little to create a management circle of European funds that knows more about European funds than this Parliament, it seemed to you little, and now they have decided to do something that they are given quite well, which is to copy examples of other latitudes, but always copy the worst examples. So they took the inspiration of an idea -- which I'm glad the Socialist Party in Galicia doesn't share, but the Valencian Socialist Party did share -- and this formulation was born to finance banking entities to put the cashiers that are closing. That, of course, seems to us an absolute scandal. It must be remembered that the bank was rescued in the Spanish state with more than 65,000 million euros from which only 15,000 will be recovered, and Banka -- all together, as its own name -- with more than 9,000 million euros, which we're not going to recover, and which, in addition, we saw how soon it began to benefit. The member of the People's Party who spoke on the previous occasion was eager to speak about Venezuela. So let's talk again about Venezuela, precisely to talk about this case. We would like it to be about other issues, but we can see that this is continuing to be the main social and economic problems in this country, despite the fact that the People's Party continues to want to block that commission of inquiry. [[Applause]] But, of course, in the end, what's going on in this country, is explained by the hugs and hand dice that Mr. President of the Galician Union has. Because if we were talking about hugs to Iberdrola in the morning, we can now talk about his great friendship with Mr. Escotec, to whom there is practically nothing left to water from this country. Only about 2021 -- I remember -- private and chiringuito universities to mange in European funds. [[Applause]] This is already the top has of the spin doors, because it's right that Abanca governs for them, that Abanca governs for the People's Party, and you're already innovating in the spin doors. But yet it was little and they take out that order -- since today we ask him to step back -- for an entity to finance with public money those services that are closing down just to fatten their profits. This is a matter that comes from far away, in addition. It's now hiding the People's Party in the coward-19, what happened in this crisis, etc., but this comes from before. It was already in July 2019 when for the first time the Nationalist Block Galego appealed here to the Galician Union to ask him to take steps back on this matter. So, Mr. Conde -- who was also very interested in talking about Venezuela in that debate -- and you voted already in September of that year motions from the Nationalist Block in Wales against this issue, and now we see how they took advantage of this crisis -- in the same way that the bank uses as an alibi to move forward in that process of concentration and oligopolization, which is an international agenda -- how the People's Party takes advantage of it to, without masking, contribute to the bank's ability to do that. It is, of course, an absolute indecency. And in addition, it has been shown that what you've done in recent months since you announced this order has been released the public exhibition and then published it in the Official Journal of Galicia. It was an effect called, because there are entities like Abanca -- which they like so much -- that it seemed to hold up without closing more offices, but it started a new walk in August, to see if it didn't notice. That's what happened. You've provoked an effect called because, of course, banking entities, if you're going to pay them the private business, because, of course, they're moving forward with this situation, which for us is the top of the hives. And just as we told you last week at the commission: this is no longer that I'm messing with us and that we have to say that it rains, this is already directly that the Galician Union, with resources from the Greeks and the Greeks -- who could go to hire more teachers for teaching, as we were talking about this morning; that they could go to strengthen the public health system, as we talked about today in the afternoon; that they could go to innovative projects-- that's what they have to go to bulk up the public archives of these entities. It's absolutely obscene, it's paying them to move for us, gentlemen of the People's Party. Of course, devoting more than three million euros to an entity, which you have already confirmed has won the competition, like Abanca, which has had 157 million euros of net profit in the full economic crisis, is absolutely obscene. So today we insist that this has to take a turn back. I hope you don't make use of Mr. Gómez Eiroa's statements yesterday, which he already has a crime, because this man was the business director of Caixa Nova when he was cheating on the Greeks and Greeks with his favourites, and he said that the bank also lost money on this. Well, this is a never-ending coat of hair. We insist on three very clear proposals, because here's the alternative: either they're on the side of the big bank's interest or they're on the side of the Greeks and the Greeks. So, first of all, we ask them to leave that order without effect, taking the necessary measures not to inject a single public euro into banking institutions that are closing down services and firing people in this country. Secondly, they negotiate and engage in political negotiations, because it was something they were unable to do in twelve years of government. And thirdly, that they are on the side of the demands, that we have also been having this problem on the table for years and proposing from the BNG that this state regulation be reformed, for example, the Royal Order of Payment Services, and that these banking entities, depending on the turnover, should have a network of minimum services, just as it happens in other areas of the economy. That's right, there are two alternatives: they either negotiate and legislate, or they're on the side of the big bank and they're still selling this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u152	We, of course, ask him today, please, not to be any worse than the remedies they try to put at this than the disease that affects us to suffer in the financial sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We are faced with a situation, the closure of banking entities, both in rural and urban areas, which generates a fundamental concern and concern in the Greeks and the Greeks, and, as it does not, concern that we share with the People's Party. There is social dissatisfaction about a problem such as access to banking and financial services, which already affects more than half of the municipalities throughout Spain. Long customer rows at the doors of banking institutions, reduced schedules that make it difficult for our seniors to live everyday lives. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you can only walk through any town or city in our Spanish territory to see that we are facing a big problem. The economic and financial crisis of 2008 was the starting point for a strong process of restructuring the financial sector. Since then, the sector has been immersed in a continuous process in the search for business models adapted to the new challenges in the financial field, such as the digitization of the sector or even the entry of new technological competitors. That restructuring of what we're talking about brings with it a very intense reduction in the number of banking offices and job adjustments and transcends the Greek borders. Look, by putting data on the table and seeing the extent of the great problem that Spain has, the network of offices of credit institutions reached a maximum of 46,000 units in September 2008, and since then it has not stopped falling, in December 2020, in just over 22,000 branches; so we're talking about an adjustment of more than 51%, even with autonomous communities like Catalonia, with a fall of 64%. In Galicia the closure of bank offices is found on the average of the Spanish ensemble. Last year more than 1,600 offices were closed in Spain, and this year these closures continue, not only in Abanca, Mr. Francisco Rivera, but also in Banco Santander, CaixaBank, Unicaja, Banco Sabadell, or even in BBVA. They are alarming data and they express that action by public administrations as a whole is necessary. It is outrageous that financial institutions make unilateral decisions such as the closure of banking offices, leaving one day to another without access to financial services to vulnerable persons, to elderly people or to displacement difficulties. We asked for a social responsibility. Mr. Francisco Rivera, look, you're focusing your attention... yeah? [[Murmurs.]] Okay. I thought you wanted to talk, Mrs. Rodil. [[Murmurs.]] Because he's so anxious to be able to intervene in every initiative too... yes, to the president, I think; to the president, yes. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Francisco Rivera, you focus attention on Abanca, but it's that in Cervo they close the BBVA office, in San Cibrao das Viñas, an industrial council in Ourense province, closes the Santander Bank branch, and we recently knew the Banco Sabadell's decision to close the Arzua branch. This is not just about Abanca, but about banking entities as a whole. Do the neighbours of Cervo, of San Cibrao das Viñas or even of Arzua have fewer rights than others in which the Abanca entity closes? I want to think that you defend all the Greeks equally, and not just focus on Abanca. Or does it focus this attention on Abanca for any political interest? By clarifying some other matter regarding the merger of the boxes, look, I want to tell you to imagine for a moment that the current Abanca entity was owned by a large bank like BBVA or Banco Santander; imagine that was the reality today. We'd probably be talking about more than 70% of the Greek municipalities without any financial entities. I'm talking about reality, I'm not defending anyone. We fully agree that Abanca is a very important factor within the Greek financial system, we are talking about an entity based in Galicia and a market share of 40%; therefore, its decisions significantly affect the Greek market. We have a responsibility, of course, not to doubt it at any time, but let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we are facing a general problem, which will continue in the coming years, and where a solution is needed at the national level by the Government of Spain. It's a generalized problem, which goes beyond the scope of a council, a parliament and even an autonomous community, and that we, from the People's Group, understand that it requires a coordinated treatment and solution by different public administrations, but of course, they are headed by the Government of Spain. And to see if we are able to agree on the evaluation of the problems, the three parliamentary groups -- here we have done this and we have shown it -- about the closure of financial institutions in rural and urban areas across Spain, Mrs Presas. We have fully identified the problem in both rural and urban areas. We see customer rows at the gates of the entities because of the impossible times for the most vulnerable people. We should also do so in the solution, which walks through joint action, led and coordinated by the State Government, with the imperative need for a complete and detailed study to analyse the financial market situation in order to develop that strategy with measures that facilitate and guarantee the access of the population to banking services. It's as easy as that, as easy as that, but it's actually, ladies and gentlemen, it's approved -- yes, yes, it's adopted by a large majority -- the Socialist Group's initiative in the Upper House, in the representative of the autonomous communities. We understand, of course, from the Popular Parliamentary Group, that this is the most logical and efficient formulation. I repeat that there is an agreement at the national level -- which I suppose Mr. Francisco Rivera will know, and if not, I also let him know -- but, as you can see, it must be wet paper, especially in everything that he means or has to do with the central government. It consists of several points, among them, to encourage the use of mechanisms to facilitate the accessibility of financial services; to encourage financial institutions to develop courses in rural areas; to provide financial institutions with incentives and spaces within public administration units to facilitate the installation of automatic cash machines; and even to promote agreements with banking institutions. This is approved, Mr. Francisco Rivera, with the votes of the Socialist Party. It's outrageous to be lied to by the Greeks, to be deceived again and again! First, I'll give you the summary. They recognize the problem, because it's obvious, just walk around any Spanish town. They adopt a motion on 14 September 2020, putting their responsibilities on the autonomous communities, on the municipalities and on the MPs. And the third step is that a year's holiday goes by. We don't know anything about what the state had to do, nothing is known about a problem that is latent, which harms many people, especially the most vulnerable. The autonomous communities, such as the Galician Union, in the face of this pastivity of the Central Government, decide not to stand by, of course not, and look for a solution for the 55,000 Greeks and Greeks, and you don't want it, you're opposed; a solution already earlier. And don't try to confuse citizenship with the current problem. In fact, it started working on this convention since 2019. The Fegamp -- where the councils of the political colour of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and even the Galego Nationalist Block are represented -- unanimously approved the signing of an agreement with the Galician Union to address this problem in those non-bank offices, because Galicia was thus anticipating a problem that can be seen as a result of the financial structure that is living in Europe, which are the difficulties alleged by the banking sector in relation to the presence of the offices; a solution which the Galician Union makes available to those municipalities affected by the said closures to accede to the agreement between the autonomous body and the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. First, an automatic cashier so a neighbor on foot can pay a receipt, to remove cash or to do other types of operations. They will also be able to count on the physical presence of staff of a financial entity, providing advice, of course, and offering financial training in a digital bank. There are councils that sign the People's Party, of course, councils that sign the Socialist Party, the Galician Nationalist Block and also independent. And you disagree! Ladies and gentlemen, will you, I suppose, make a cross to the mayors of their political colour who signed an agreement to guarantee financial access to their neighbours? They're going to put a cross on them, probably. From the rostrum they intend to abandon the Galicians and the Greeks who do not have access to financial services for the mere partisan reason. Some actually realize that they didn't do anything to fix the problem, like the Socialist Party, and others because they were political accomplices. They visit the municipalities affected and tell them, looking into their eyes, that they are opposed to having a financial service and that they are not going to have to pay the bill of light, that they won't have to pay the receipt of the phone or that they won't be able to make a simple transfer. And when they ask why, why do they want to close, tell them that for the simple reason that, as it is a measure of the government of beans, they don't like it. That's what happens in the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] What world do you live in, gentlemen? It's so much the discriminatory treatment they have with Galicia that it goes beyond remote limits. [[Murmurs.]] Look, both the deputy of Valladolid, of Almería, ruled by the People's Party, as well as the deputy of Badajoz, Granada or Guadalajara, ruled by the Socialist Party, adopted similar initiatives to Welsh, similar! But look, Mrs. Presas, I'll tell you more. Given the good tune he keeps with the Republican Left of Catalonia, as in addition to coming together to the European elections they invite each other on the holiday days of autonomy, the Tarragona Deputy has an agreement with CaixaBank for the installation of ATMs in small towns. [[Murmurs.]] Then, Mrs. Presas, in Tarragona, yes, but in Galicia, no. Of course, you go to any Greek council, such as Monfero, Ribeira de Piquin, San Juan de Río, Santiso, Toques, The Paramoso... and explain to them that they do not agree that the neighbors have access to a financial service once they have closed their office. Tell them! Tell them to see what they think. The problem goes further, and you do absolutely nothing to give him a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not so distracted when we're really worried about improving the accessibility of the population to banking services. This is the daily reality, the problems of everyday life that we must look for a solution. The solution of the Galician Nationalist Block, therefore, is to nationalize, on the one hand, or, if not, to leave the vulnerable population without a bank alternative. And on behalf of the Socialist Group, it is to go on vacation for a year, without doing anything at all, and that there are others to solve the problems of their competition. And when it turns out that Fegamp and Junta sign an agreement and look for the solution for more than 55,000 Greeks who have no access to a number of financial services, you're the only one they're looking for is a political trifle, indeed, no solutions, because they know they haven't done anything at all to solve a problem that affects more than a thousand Greeks, and that, in addition, has the utmost competence to solve it by the Government of the State. [[Murmurs.]] Given the lack of planning and coordination on the part of the Government to address this problem at the national level, the Government of Greece was one of the first autonomous administrations to act, signing, with the representation of the municipalities, a collaboration protocol to which 38 Greek municipalities of the different political colors were joined -- already President -- because for these municipalities affected, as for the Council of Galicia and for this parliamentary group, the only really important thing is to solve the problems of the Greeks, claiming, of course, the policy useful in the search for solutions to the general problems of people. This is the solution we collect in our amendment. For everything else? You are left alone in the abyss! [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u155	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposal, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u156	Thank you. Good afternoon again. Finally, from our initiative, what is essentially deduced is a requirement for the Galician Union, Feijóo, to request the financial system, but in particular for the Bank, social responsibility with this country. That's what we asked him to do. Do you, in the People's Party, have any problem in demanding responsibility from the Bank so that you don't shut down the offices in this country? Because I agree with the Fegamp -- which you alluded to -- don't support this. The agreement with Fegamp was precisely to provide financial services to those municipalities that no longer had them, but what is happening right now as a result of the decisions of the Galician Union, indeed, is an effect called, an effect on the continued closure of offices because they know that the Galician Union will finance the installation of cashiers in those offices that are closing precisely that entity. [[Applause]] And I say social responsibility with Galicia because this entity, Abanca -- yes, Abanca, to which you stand for; Bank, yes, to which you here defend, to which the Galician Union grants you a private university, to which it is able to manage European funds and to which it is unable to publicly question the closure of the offices or to demand the reopening of those that are closed -- I had in this country 3,000 million euros of profits, and it has a turnover, a volume of customers and a dimension that is not born ex new, which comes precisely from a business model installed in this country for decades and has been extinguished as a result of the disappearance of savings boxes. So that entity -- which is a private entity -- that buys a bank, and against which we have absolutely nothing, has a debt to this country, like not? And the Galician Union has to demand social responsibility from this entity. That's what we asked for. So, finally, you do an X-ray here, in your amendment, of a series of studies to be done. We have come here, with various initiatives over the past few months, precisely considering that the Galego Institute of Consumers and Competition has conducted a study on the impact of banking concentration on access to credit, on loans, on financial exclusion... well, none of this has been approved in this Parliament by the vote of the People's Party. So the X-ray is already done, and we all agree that, indeed, we cannot continue in this way of acting as financial entities, in particular those with monopoly or monopoly in smaller municipalities. It is true that this is not just a problem of small municipalities or more distant municipalities, which is also a problem that affects the set of citizens living in urban areas. But it's true that the problem is much more intense in those municipalities where citizens don't even have to get their money out of an entity, or with whom to start a small, finally, financial transaction, since citizens are being driven directly to a digital bank for which they are not enabled in many cases. We do not agree with BNG's financial planning as to whether the solution is at last in a public bank, or much less, but if we agree at the bottom of this question, that this cannot be the solution. It can't be the solution to encourage and effect a closed office call by telling them that if offices are closed, the next day they're going to have a Galician board grant to place a cashier. So we can't accept that, and I think the Fegamp can't accept that either. Of course he does not accept it, because he has already made allegations in this regard and they are not yet resolved or even answered by the Council of Galicia itself. Our initiative is absolutely clear. We have no problem in requiring the Government of the State to regulate regulations that citizens cannot be excluded according to their residence, from access to basic services, in this case to financial services, but we also ask the Council of Galicia not to hide and exaggerate Bank and financial entities as a whole responsibility to this country, because no offices can be closed and at the same time receive Government autonomic biases. And that's what Mr. Núñez Feijóo has to say, and we've also told him since the opposition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u157	The amendments. Do you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u158	Regarding the amendment of the BNG, we accept it. As far as the amendment of the People's Party is concerned, we do not accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u159	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the proposed parliamentary group, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u160	Thank you very much, President. Starting with this last question, we thank the Socialist Group for accepting the amendment we tabled. And already going to the replica shift, I mean that really is absolutely fascinating. Here we have debates in which some of us are communist crazy -- crazy, no; communists, a little -- and the People's Party is the paradigm of non-intervention, in theory, in the economy. But then, in the end, we see that here you are capitalists of the "chinchi moni" because you are capitalists for what they want. [[Murmurs.]] Now, to allocate the public resources of the Greeks and the Greeks to fill the pockets of a 100 percent private company, they don't have the slightest scruple. It's absolutely amazing! Instead of negotiating politically or inviting those with competences or trying to have the powers to legislate and get a minimum network of financial services, starting from the fact that in this economic system it is impossible to live without a bank account, just as it is necessary to demand other areas of the economy that there are minimum services, because, no, that's not going to happen with you, because we are going to deliver a formula that has occurred to them in order to infiltrate more public resources into an area that has already been rescued in 2008 and that we have to continue to rescue. Of course, that's absolutely obscene and doesn't have the slightest explanation. And even more obscene than they do is the arguments they use and try to sell this as a social measure, as some territorial rebalancing, etc. I don't see, for example, the People's Party, having competences in the matter and being able to also have a gun bouncing against the state for the part it's responsible for, for example, to be so concerned about, for the access of the neighborhood to a worthy coverage, because a lot of virtual banking, but, if you don't have coverage, you won't be able to use it. And we have recently brought to this Parliament cases such as those in Rios and Gudignina, people who have not received the vaccination appointments because there is no coverage, that they are unable to receive messages or to operate with virtual applications. That's why you don't have so much worry about it for setting an example in another area. Of course, this is absolutely obscene, and it's not something that affects the everyday life of our elders, affects us all and all. I myself set the example of a banking entity where a person in my neighborhood who needs, from October 2nd, to go to close that bank account, or to do any management of those that they force to go in person, will have to do it 200 kilometers and go to the Coruña. It is likely that there will be a Member of the BNG speaking on this issue in two or three years, claiming that they are not here, that they must go to Madrid and that this is the coat of hair. It's an absolute coat of hair! They laugh, but you, as customers, will also experience this, because it's also a spiral inside the big box that's making banking service cutters, worsening conditions, and becoming more and more like other types of devalued services. And, of course, I listened to Mrs. Vázquez and remembered a cartoon that ends these days the painter Davidla, who was basically a sale of pig products. And I was joking that, well, I'd finance them Feijóo. It would almost seem more appropriate to me that model. But, outside of the joke, it is absolutely regrettable that a private business niche will fund it on the board of Galicia. Of course, it's absolutely scandalous. And the arguments on the table aren't worth it, because they compare with the worst indexes. Now the People's Party is also talking about doing a study on some initiative they've just registered. Look, it's just that the study has been done since 2017, the initiative of a non-law proposition by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. This competition study tells us that Galicia had a percentage of a lack of competition in banking concentration above the Spanish average and the European average. And you look the other way. Yesterday was the time to study, today is the time to have already arbitrate measures that are not a new public ransom. Of course, our proposal is minimal: political negotiation, legislative reform and telling Abanca we won't give him more money from the public era to finance his business. It's that simple, that's minimal. If they want, we're talking about a public bank too, of course. We don't give up our strategic proposal. And indeed, we also look at what other peoples do, by the way, with what we celebrate the day of our nations, not our autonomy. You copy the Catalan model and make it from the Galego Institute, the Igape Institute, a Greek Institute of Credit and aspire to have the Bank of Spain tab, which is the roadmap in which Catalonia is also playing by a Catalan public bank. Copy your ideas, don't just keep your bags! And, of course, we defend a sheet of our own. [[Applause]] Nothing, to finish, I make a reference to the question of municipalities. Look, here, let's assume that there are thirty-one peak municipalities that have joined a convention -- which is a protocol issue -- when there is more than 360 in this country, it gives an idea of their failure and low adherence to their own councils, to those who are calling the hornet shot. And there are two governments, in fact, co-governing us, who signed that agreement, but it's just that, look, the Greek municipalities, in the end, what they do is they're being spoiled by the People's Party's convention policy, just like the Doing Business. But that doesn't mean that this measure is triumphant or swallowing, Mrs Vázquez, and you know it perfectly. And, of course, we reaffirm ourselves in this. And since they say that nothing was done reflect the shame, given that the president of the board himself was saying this week that this was unacceptable what Abanca was doing, but that the order of the cashiers would not be removed. How are you going to remove your colleague Escotet one more prebend? Of course, in the end... you said, Mrs. Vázquez, "for everything else, Abanca and Mastercard." But it would be better...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u162	...for you have abandoned your policy of any action in this field, because what is clear is that -- as I told you at the beginning -- every time you do something, it's worse the cure than the disease.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u163	Do you accept the PP amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u164	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u165	Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and 18 other Members, on the proposal for names of the buildings of the Galician Parliament building
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u166	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u167	To defend the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u168	Good afternoon. This initiative basically has a goal, which is to correct what we understand to be a serious mistake for most of the People's Party: the decision to dedicate a room of Parliament -- and not any room, but the meeting room of the spokespersons -- to Antonio Rosón. We disagree both at the bottom and in the form of this decision. In form, because it was taken, we can say, with nighttime and alleviation, or "stimulation." It was adopted by the back door, in a way I don't know if it's irregular -- you'll see that -- but at least unusually, because the normal thing would be to include it as a point on the agenda, and what the Presidency did was to put it through the false door in the communication, prayer and proposal section, and, in addition to time off, at the end of the session period, when there was no parliamentary activity of plenary and commission and at the doors of August vacations to disable the possible social response as well. This modus operandi makes manifest something very clear, which is the poor conscience of the People's Party and the fact that this is a shameful decision, if not, it wouldn't. And we have to remember that the theme of the room names had already been proposed in 2019, and then it had been on the table. At that time the BNG made a proposal which was submitted by register, an absolutely plural and open proposal. And after two years in stand-by -- a lot of haste there wasn't -- the Presidency, the People's Party, reactivated it in July 2021 and passed it alone within days, without any margin for dialogue and a possible agreement, which I think would be easy to achieve, really. In this respect, with the amendment of the Socialist Group, I have to say that we have no problem accepting it as an addition to the text of the proposal made by the BNG. What we think is perverse is what the People's Party intends to do: to pass through dialogue and magnanimity the acceptance of a name proposed in 2019 by the BNG, the name of the journalist and writer Mari Luz Morales, who was the first director of a newspaper in the state, La Vanguardia, in Catalonia, besieged by the Frankists, by the truth. This isn't a BNG proposal, it's not the name of a nationalist woman either. It's a proposal, in any case, to bring justice to a great woman in our story who has been unjustly forgotten. Look at one thing, in politics, forms are important. The PP likes the circular form, the form of the "rodillo" of the imposition, the "order and command" and makes manifest worrying authoritarian tics that I don't know if they are banners of the past. In any case, they are exercises of despotism that are not illustrated. The BNG voted against this proposal in the Bureau for a number of reasons: for this taxation mainly, but it was also in disagreement with one of the proposed names, the name "King's Hall". And by the way, we have to say here that it seems like an outrage and an indignity to follow in this house the portrait of the Emeritus of the Emirates, in great size. The Emeritus of the Emirates is a master investigated for serious corruption crimes, an international commissioner, which the BNG does not say, which is said by the Spanish Prosecutor's Office itself. [[Applause]] An unworthy gentleman, who does not deserve the honour or tribute of the Greek Parliament, and moreover, seems to us an insult and a provocation which the President of the Union defines, above all, as exemplary Greek and which he says will always have the doors open to Galicia. It seems disgusting and repugnant to us to make this statement. Look, the main reason for BNG's rejection of the People's Party's proposal -- it was the only vote against, by the way -- is that it's a gross attempt to whiten out the franchise fascism that has so badly done in our country, that so many lives have been destroyed. It's a crude and doomed attempt at the failure to erase and fake history, and it has the opposite effect of what you want, because it has a Mumerang effect, because, in the end, what they're trying to do is to speak again of the past, of historical facts, contrasted, true, of the victims of Frankish terror and also of the executioners. Because there was a taboo in the Transition here and then there was no longer allowed to talk about the executioners. I could tell them a lot of things they did to research people who tried to talk about it; I could tell them how they finished, but I don't have time. So with this decision, what they do is they focus on episodes of the past, nothing exemplary, by the fact, of outstanding members of the Rosón family. That's right. And I'd like to make some clarifications, because you're very, very twisted. We're not judging here -- with this initiative, at least; we could do it, but we're not doing it -- the role in the Transition of Persons like Rosón, nor the fact that there was a recycling of many franchisees that crossed the turning doors and became democrats all over life. We're also not judging people like Antonio Rosón here for taking on prominent positions during franchise. We could take these arguments, but we're not talking about this, that's not the reason for our rejection. We're also not making brave judgments about Mr. Rosón's friends, about his great friendship, for example, with Ramon Piñeiro, about his great friendship and his close relationship with Ánxel Fole and other people in our history. Here we are talking about another question that has to do with ethics and fundamental rights and which can be summed up in the following statement: a democracy and a parliament must honour the victims of repression, must not honor the executioners. That's the conclusion. Not to people who have played a direct and active role in the Frankish repression. In the case of Antonio Rosón and other members of his family -- although we understand that this doesn't like it, it's a historical fact, not an opinion -- it's a true fact, tested and contrasted in multiple sources, both oral and written, for example, in the chronicle that throughout the months of July, August and September made the newspaper El Progresso of the human hunt that occurred in the neighborhoods of Becerreá and Les Ancares, among others. But it is also recognized and collected this role in Mr. Rosón's own writings, which was not a single person, who was not passing through there, but was part of a criminal organization called Falange Española since July 18 and who, at the age of 25, served as military commander in the Becerrea area. And in this condition he declared the state of war in this region. He exercised the highest military authority. He was, therefore, a hitter, so clear, and led, as the highest military authority, a cruel repression that led to the murder of at least 37 militant people and Republican leaders, who were hunted -- not tried, hunted -- one by one, wanted "for their acubes," as El Progreso said, from Lugo, even eliminated them. And the highest leader in that area was Mr. Antonio Rosón. There are the facts, which they don't lie. He himself recognized in 1942, in a process that there was then in Becerreá: "He proclaimed the state of war" -- he speaks of himself -- "by his condition as a complement alferez and at the head of the organization of the Falange, pacifying the region, being the only one in the entire judicial party that confronted the Marxist organization." If in the Spanish State there was something similar to the judgments in Nuremberg, for example, in the years 1946 or 1947, they would be sentenced to severe penalties in those trials people responsible for war crimes, crimes against humanity, but they were never tried. There has not been this criminal trial here, but there are norms of universal justice that must be fulfilled, and there is even a state law of historical memory that prohibits the exaltation of people linked to Franco-Francist repression and dictatorship. And there are, above all, victims' rights to justice and reparation. And with this appointment, the memory of the victims and their families is being outraged. The PP says to condemn franchise, but this is a statement to the gallery. I'm not going to tell you here about your ideological and biological origins, but, in any case, you can't condemn frankism in the morning and glorify it in the evening. With this decision they show their real face and they fall down the face. [[Applause]] And I wanted to finish with a quote from Jose Saramago that I think he explains well what we're talking about: "We are the memory we have and the responsibility we share. Without memory, we don't exist; without responsibility, perhaps we don't deserve to exist." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u169	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2007 the Socialists promoted a democratic memory law from which we feel proud; a law which is currently being reformed in the State Parliament to make it even more just and more understanding and redressing the rights of victims. Therefore, we have very clear the need to claim the historical democratic memory, to repair the victims of franchiseism and not to practice, as the right one does, fairness on a subject in which it cannot be equidistant, because what happened in 1936 was an illegitimate and illegal coup d'état against a legitimate and legal democracy; a brutal coup d'état, supported by German Nazism and Italian fascism and which resulted in a cruel and cruel war against a republic whose president, Manuel Azaña, pronounced in 1938 a famous speech asking for peace, mercy and forgiveness. Peace, mercy and forgiveness, three ideas that didn't share the coups, but that influenced a lot of the transition management forty years later. By claiming how we claim the democratic memory, speaking of historical memory is always complex and complicated, because in this country there was a civil war that someone called "incivil" and that divided Spain into blood and fire, as called Nogales Keys one of its most recognized books. The historical memory of some of them does not often coincide with others, and there was a moment in our history where we decided to make an effort to re-enact in this country to try to put behind hatreds and atavisms; an effort of reconciliation that has been made to call Transition and that has been invoked in different parts of the world as an example of the success of a process of historical change from a dictatorship to a democracy. We were part of the Transition, as the Party is today; we did not participate in some revisionism and we continued to say that, with its improved things, the Transition was, as a whole, a collective agreement. And in this Transition, people who had prominent roles in franchiseism as Adolfo Suárez, who had been minister and secretary of the Movement before democracy, or Manuel Fraga himself, of what there are photos dressed as a phalanxist, making the phalanxist greeting with his fist on high. But in the Transition we decided mostly to allow and stand for a reconciliation that is very far away from us today, but that at its moment was important, very imposing, to allow this country to move forward. And Fraga, former franchisor, founded a party that today has a majority in this House and was President of the Board, and Adolfo Suárez was a dear politician who is recognized as an important role in the drive of democracy in Spain, not to mention his courage lesson on the night of February 23, 1981. And today we are debating the proposal to withdraw the name of a Chamber of Parliament which was renamed by a Bureau agreement on 27 July, in which the People's Party presented, voted favourably and approved a list of fifteen names for fifteen rooms. A list that BNG voted against and we abstained on, because the vote on that list, totally abnormally, did not appear on the agenda and, in addition, we understand that there was no consensus on the part of the People's Party, which imposed a list of names on which we would prefer to include others. For example, Celso Emilio Ferreiro, a writer who was a member of the PSdeG; or Ramón Piñeiro, also a member of the Galeguist intellectual and a member of the PSdeG list in 1981 in this House; or Carlos Casares, a well-known writer who was also a Member of the PSdeG list in 1981. I insist that we didn't propose the name of Antonio Rosón. Antonio Rosón's name was not a PSdEG proposal but a name among many others, from which most of them didn't raise us, they didn't generate us, no problem, like that of Rosalía, Curros and so many others. And from there we abstained -- as I say -- because we didn't look for enough consensus to set up that list of 15 names; and also because, totally irregularly, we didn't have that decision on the Bureau's agenda and it stuck through the back door in the rouses and questions turn. Having said this, we rejected and condemned dictatorship and franchise, and also rejected the phalanxist stage of Antonio Rosón, who in 1936 was 25. But we understand his role as a defender of Galicia's autonomy and as a person who helped to establish democracy and autonomy in his capacity as the first president of the Union in 1978, and who was then stopped by opposing Galicia's being given a second autonomy status -- what was then called the famous "statute of indignation" --. From then on he was democratically elected to this House in the first autonomous elections in 1981 and 1985. He has been President of this Parliament since 1981 and for several years. By the way, it was elected at that time without the vote of the Socialists and the Socialists, that we did not share or support, now as at that time, their conservative political positions. But, by putting things in their context, a few years after the magazine Interviewed in 1978 published certain information about Antonio Rosón, they were considered uncontested at all, so the courts condemned the journalists who did this information for serious insults -- repeated convictions later in different processes --. When Ramón Piñeiro was asked in an interview what was his opinion of former president of the board -- who was Antonio Rosón -- and Ramón Piñeiro said -- and I read -- : "I Antonio Rosón has known him since 1935, who introduced me to Ánxel Fole in Lugo. One thing that few know about him is his work in the early years of Franco's regime. For example, in 1949, I remember that one day I was told that I had the plan to make a community of municipalities by judicial parties and then to bring together the municipalities throughout the province. This experience would be invaluable for a future autonomy. And that's what Antonio Rosón told us in 1949, when very few people dared to open their mouths about these things. Then came his work as president of the Union and the realization that all political forces, as well as cultural, economic, etc., collaborated in the Statute of Self-Government. He always thought about Galicia before he left." What I just quoted literally is what Antonio Rosón Ramón Piñeiro said, it's not what I think or what the PSdEG thinks. But if I think that Ramón Piñeiro's is an opinion that is sufficiently authorized and relevant to be considered. In any case, beyond the personal consideration that each one deserves from the transition politician and the beginning of autonomy that was Antonio Rosón -- a right-wing politician who, as such, is alien to our political choice -- the main reason is that we disagree with the failure to seek consensus on the part of the People's Party in the name of the Chambers of this House. And that's why we tabled a replacement amendment so that the complete list of those 15 names would be reconsidered and adopted again with a procedure in which the appropriate degree of consensus is sought. Because this House is the highest representation of the democracy and autonomy of Galicia, and the names of its rooms must not be imposed by the People's Party, but must be consensual among all groups, which has not been done. And since the majority of parliamentary representatives of the People's Party were unusually unable to include on the Bureau's agenda -- on the Bureau's agenda on which that name was adopted and fourteen more -- the very decision that was to be adopted, and since this joint decision does not count on sufficient consensus, does not reflect the political pluralism of this House, our amendment calls for the withdrawal of the full list and the elaboration of a new proposal based on a principle of consensus and plurality that must preside over -- that should in any case chair -- the decisions that affect the seat of autonomy and democracy in Galicia, which is this House. We therefore do not support the method of approval of that list. Antonio Rosón was not proposed by the PSdEG and we must do things differently, not imposing but consensual. And from there, our amendment, which is -- I insist -- substitution rather than addition. In that sense, we will be grateful if we are told whether the substitution is accepted. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u171	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u172	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today brings the BNG to this plenary -- it's in its perfect right -- a debate that we consider strictly self-referential. It is self-referential from a political point of view, because the decision to put a specific name in Parliament's chambers is a matter that is gradually affecting the quality of life of a citizen who is currently concerned about other issues, such as light, pandemic, employment, etc. But it's also self-referential from a somewhat more philosophical perspective, because it seems that with this initiative the BNG wants to talk about a decision taken at the Bureau by the three representatives of the People's Parliamentary Group, when actually what they want to talk about is -- and that's the metalevel of what Mr Bará was talking about -- about the nationalism of the BNG and the long division that has been going on since the transition -- I'm talking about nationalism -- and about its current situation. And he wants to do it to reaffirm his long-standing maximalist principles, which are basically ruptureists in relation to the democratic and sovereignist question of territorial issues. It is a long internal debate which has sparked deep divisions in nationalism over time, long debates, sound abandonments and ruptures of organizations and subsequent reconciliations, and which in our days is presented as the opening of a stage of reflection in an organization where -- paraphrasing Lineker -- they always play eleven against eleven but always win those who do not accept the great social and political consensus that the country has given themselves and always lose those who accept the current legal framework and institutional participation as a starting point for real political action -- of course, which has given them so much success at the local level in some councils, as Mr Bará's --. Anyway, let's go, first, to formal issues. In the past, the Bureau took the decision to appoint Parliament's chambers, without any group being opposed. The process was paralysed by the elections and also because BNG proposed a replacement in the first relationship facilitated by the Presidency. Already in this legislation the Bureau resumed the appointment of the rooms with a new proposal that gathered some of the suggestions made by the BNG -- namely the replacement of the name of Sofia Casanova, the corrupt journalist who was the first corresponding war woman in the world, by the one also crowned Maria Luz Morales, who was also journalist and, as it has been said, the first director of a Spanish newspaper, La Vanguardia --. On July 6, the Bureau facilitated a new relationship to the groups and on July 27, without any further objection by the Block, the agreement was adopted -- yes, with the vote against the representative of the BNG and the socialist abstention from the Bureau --. The agreement is reached when we urgently register the GNP that we debate and which, precisely, by the background, by the procedure followed and by its actual transcendence in society, is a purely self-referential public debate -- that is, political, which only interests us -- and I believe that unnecessary and could have been resolved by the usual channels of dialogue at the Council of Spokesman. With what we've come to the bottom of the matter. From the list of names, the reality is that the BNG only objects in this non-law proposition the name of one of the rooms, the room Antonio Rosón, who was the first president of the Parliament of Galicia democratically elected. And then a very obvious question arises: Is it strange that a democratic parliament honours its first president by giving him the name of a room? And the answer seems as obvious: No, what's strange is that someone can oppose it, especially for the reasons they argue. First of all, legal reasons have been chosen. It is said that it is contrary to the law of historical memory, a law that we respect and that we comply with as all democratic laws. And in this we have no equivalence. But whoever defends this supposed illegality forgets some transcendental issue. For example, that the facts that sit down -- and that today have been repeated -- that is, Antonio Rosón's supposed involvement in repression in 1936, against what was said, are not at all historically proven. There is not a single document that proves it, not even the military charter of Antonio Rosón himself, because precisely, to make merits at the beginning of the dictatorship, many were pointed out when they participated in repression, and it is one of the sources, precisely, to detect the executions by historians of historical memory. On the contrary, there is personal evidence that Antonio Rosón has protected and saved from fascist repression the prominent militants of Republican Galeguism. For example, Ramón Piñeiro, who in his memoirs -- of my accord, page 57 -- is aware of the luck he had to count on the protection of Antonio Rosón just in the times when his friends and correspondents Ánxel Casal and Alexandre Bóveda were murdered. It is more so, as it is well known every time someone has published information such as what we hear today and that they have their source in an anonymous pamphlet appearing in the times of the transition, then collected in the magazine Interview and in the book Franco's shadow in the transition, justice has repeatedly condemned and unanimously those who have made these claims for defaming Antonio Rosón's honour; judgments -- the last one in 2012 of the Supreme Court, number 212 -- which make it clear that the rights to information and freedom of expression are above the right to honor but not when, as in the above cases, the authors have violated the duty of truth, and cannot prove the truthfulness of those accusations, and have violated Antonio Rosón's honour with uncontroduced and documented accusations. There are no legal arguments, not even on the agenda, because that, of course, would have been warned by the House's lawyers. And knowing all this, I'm sure Mr. Bará knows, why does he insist on this speech by the BNG? Why do you deny the name of a room to whom you chaired it with the largest number of votes of democratically elected deputies -- 50 out of 71 -- throughout the history of this House? Why do you deny the recognition to the protector of Ramón Piñeiro in 1936, to the close friend of Ánxel Fole, Fernández del Riego, Fernández de la Vega or Río Barja, to one of the first promoters, along with Xaime Isla and that new Xosé Manuel Beiras, of the Galelic magazine of economics? Why do you deny recognition to those who have so much been involved in the defence of the Galician Statute, as repeatedly witnessed by Ceferino Díaz in Esforced conquest of Autonomy? Why do they deny the recognition to which the House chaired when laws such as linguistic normalization were adopted unanimously, to whom, when it died in 1986, I assumed, in the words of Camilo Nogueira, "a great loss for Galicia"? Why are they now opposed to this minor recognition and not opposed in their day to the granting of the greatest distinction of the House, the medal of Parliament, given to their heirs by the presence of the then spokesperson of the BNG? Actually, you don't oppose Rosón today because of his franchise past, I say, in what he's played a little relevant role. You are opposed to Rosón precisely for the same reasons that the Bureau had to recognize; that is, for all that our best historians also certify, from Moncho Villares to Justo Beramendi: for his past autonomy and integration and his important contribution so that, among other things, we can be debating freely in this House about his figure. They object to the honour of Roson precisely because it contributed to raise awareness about the need for autonomy by integrating into its government the preautonomomic persion of all parties, from the People's Alliance to socialism, from the People's Alliance to socialism, and including independent Gallagists; because it helped to create awareness about the need for autonomy by integrating into its government the pre-autonomal preautonomal persual rule of all parties, from the People's Alliance of People's Alliance to socialism, and including independent Gallagists; because it decided the National Day of Galicia, which came to institutionalize the Great Day of Galicia, which you came to institutionalize the Great Day of Galicia, which you came to institutionalize the Galician autonomy of Galician autonomy, which you saw as an attack on your monopoly over all parties of every party, from the People's Party to the People's People's People's Alliance, from the People's People's Preautonodom is against the honour, because it opposed to the honour of Roson honour of Roson honour, because it was precisely because it was precisely because it has contributed to have contributed to create the role itself to create the honour to create the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the role of the honour of the need of the need of independence of independence of the honour of the honour of the honour of independence of independence of the honour of their role of independence of independence of independence of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of Ros of Roson precisely because it, because it, because it, because it, because it was precisely because it, because it contributed rise of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of Roson precisely because it contributed precisely because it contributed precisely because it contributed by the honour of Roson precisely because it contributed by the honour of the honour of Roson precisely because it contributed to create itself, because it contributed to create itself, because it contributed to create itself, because it contributed by the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of the role of the honour of the honour of the [[Applause]] In short, because it represents everything that you have been driving away from the Transition: the consensus that has given us the Constitution, the Statute or integration into the European Union; and precisely because this consensus has led many nationalists from that time, from Piñeiro to Nogueira, from Ceferino Díaz to González Laxe, to reject or abandon break-up nationalism to integrate and defend autonomy. Because with that option, the BNG failed to build itself -- which was what it wanted -- not in Galicia's only representative but in the only representative of nationalism within a plural and open society that has since progressed to the very dawn of the constitutional and statutory framework. And for these reasons, although it seems that the topic of this debate is franchise and its supposed survival in Galicia, what we are discussing is actually the question of the political essence of a BNG which continues to anchor in discussions on the Transition, the value of the Constitution and the Statute or the role played by those who, like Rosón, have made it possible. It's a debate that the vast majority of Galician society has surpassed decades ago, a society that prefers, unlike the BNG, to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Statute and not the Independentist Diada in Catalonia. It is a debate that remains between you and that, indeed, as your spokesman says, deserves a fundamental reflection, a deeper reflection. [[Applause]] But it's a reflection among you that doesn't deserve to be brought to the plenary of this institution to keep the lines and the foundational coherence black. Finally, we need not reflect to remain loyal to the democratic pacts that have materialized the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government, which gave us the best years of our history and enabled Galicia to progress in peace and democracy. We therefore respect the legacy of more than so many of them who made it possible by their work and their generosity, the first President of Parliament democratically elected by the legitimate representatives of Galicia in 81, Antonio Rosón. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u173	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica from the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u174	He liked the coven that mounted here the spokesperson for the People's Party, the witch hunt that tried to mount against nationalism and against the BNG trying to bring back the debate. But, of course, we're not going in there, Mr. Puy. What I'm telling you is that you are deeply concerned precisely by the unstoppable god of the BNG, by those over 300,000 people who have already supported the BNG in the last elections and because they're feeling in the cockpit that unstoppable god of the BNG. [[Murmurs.]] They're very scared about it, yes, yes. [[Strong murmurers.]] And, of course, you say that this doesn't affect the quality of life. It will not affect the quality of life, but it will affect the quality of democracy, the democratic health of this country, if you want to, if you try to erase the past, which is what you tried to do here: start the political biography of the character in 1977, or 1978, but not in that past, or at least by jumping on some dramatic and terrifying episodes that I mentioned here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What you can't come here to fake the story. And you want, in addition, to pass Antonio Rosón on to a sort of savior, a savior of nationalists and Galeguists. Look, he quoted here a witness from Ramon Piñeiro, in which he thanked Rosón for his protection, his support, and spoke of a statement he made in 1949. It's just that in 1949 there were hundreds and thousands of Greeks who were in prison for their political ideas. There were thousands of Greeks in exile, like Castile. And there were thousands of Greeks who were buried in joints and joints -- from which they still haven't gone out, by the way -- while some were saving lives. [[Applause]] You are unable to refute what I said here, which is believed and proven: that Mr. Rosón, likes or dislikes, was a member of a criminal organization, of a terrorist organization, yes, the Spanish Falanxe, responsible for a terrible repression throughout our country and in this district. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He was the highest political-military leader in this region during this brutal and vicious repression. And he says it. Even he, after that interview report, publicly said he was an 18th-July man. I mean, he recognized that past. Look, if this was a minimally mature and consolidated democracy, leaders with this past would have to resign. And I can give you the example of Kurt Waldheim, who was an Austrian diplomat, Secretary General of the United Nations and President of Austria, of what, during his presidency, he discovered his Nazi past -- not only his militancy but his intervention --. There was an investigation commission, an international commission, which said that Waldheim knew, despite its repeated negatives, the existence of Nazi crimes as lieutenant of Wehrmacht. And this gentleman didn't continue as president of Austria and asked for forgiveness. Nothing of this has happened here; among other matters, because all historians who tried to shed light on these issues have been prosecuted, because they have been prevented from exercising justice, and retaliation people have to seek justice in Argentina because it is not allowed here. [[Applause]] I make a proposal: we appoint an independent commission made up of three historians, proposed by each political group, specialized in franchise repression and who make a historical assessment of the character at this stage in the character's life. What's the matter? Light and tachographs! And we make decisions from there. Look, you have a double measuring rod, you have one for Nazism, and you have one for French-speaking fascism. You organize tributes to the victims of Nazism but forbid them for the victims of franchise here. And we're still waiting for them to honor the Welshman, along with Castelao, who fought most for self-government, for Galician autonomy, who was Alexandre Bóveda. [[Applause]] We have recently been the political groups in a debate that was held in the Pontevedra Parliamentary on the politics of memory, and there was a man named Gus Álvarez, who was the victim of the Frankish repression, was tortured in Frankish prisons, but not in 1936 or 1937, he was tortured in the 1970s. And he said a phrase there that was tearing me down and moving. He was tortured by Billy el Niño, and he said, "They destroyed my life." Well, there are thousands and thousands of gales whose life is shattered by Frankish repression and their memory and dignity must be repaired. And you have... yes, ETA, but the criminal and terrorist Falange who killed so many people in Galicia too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have to have the same measuring rod, it's not worth one and the other. [[Murmurs.]] They are victims of terrorism on both sides. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u175	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u176	And so -- finished -- you have to define yourself at once. They have to decide whether they're on the side of the victims or whether they're on the side of the executioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u177	Do you accept the replacement amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u178	I don't accept it because I told you to accept it as an addition amendment, not substitution amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u179	Thank you, Mr Bará. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u180	We proceed to the vote on non-legislative proposals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, there's a self-amendment. Then, of course, the self-amendment is poured out. If there is a self-amendment, you have changed the text. Voting of the amended text of the Non-Legal Proposal by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the action to be taken by the Social Policy Council in relation to the work and composition of the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee, as well as the participation in it of the remaining political forces represented in the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. The text resulting from this non-law proposal is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u181	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Maria Encarnación Amigo. There was a compromise proposal on the amendments. Is there a deal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u182	We've tried a transaction but there's no agreement. Then it stays like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u183	Amendments do not accept them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u184	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u185	So we voted without the amendments. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Encarnation Amigo Díaz and six other Members, on the demand of the Council of Galicia to the Central Government for an extraordinary proof of access by local doctors and the ability of health centres and specialists in family and community medicine to provide their training. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 14; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u186	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Marta Novoa. There is a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group and no other amendments have been accepted. We voted for it with the People's Parliamentary Group's self-amendment. Voting of the amended text of the Non-Legal Proposal by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Állado Filgueira and six other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia before the Central Government to undermine the electricity bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. The amended text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u187	They are now split apart, even though the debate has been accumulated, from two non-legislative proposals. Firstly, that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in which the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is accepted and not that of the People's Parliamentary Group. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the measures to be taken by the Junta of Galicia to prevent the closure of banking offices and to guarantee the right to basic services of a financial nature. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u188	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group that is not accepted. Voting of the non-legislative motion by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to regulate the banking sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u189	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mr Bará on the proposal for names of the rooms of the Parliament building. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Voting of the non-legislative proposal of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the proposal for names of the buildings of the Galician Parliament building. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 18 ; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-14-DSPG046.u190	There's no more fears for today. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
