ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting with agenda item 6, questions for the President's oral reply. Question for an oral reply by the President of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the measures which are deemed necessary for the escalation in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u2	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start by showing the absolute rejection of the Party of the Socialists of Galicia to the attitude, to the antidemocratic position that the People's Party is holding in the city of Ourense trying to withdraw from the political life of those who have won the municipal elections, in a gesture that fails with respect to the citizenship that voted it, the citizens. You, Mr. Feijóo, have created a problem in Ourense for maintaining the Baltars' caciquism in the Deputy and maintaining chaos in the city of Ourense. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] You've created the lethal pact and created the problem, and you're trying to fix it, you're saying that we have to rectify the citizens' vote, that there's already the PP to say who has to be in democratic institutions and who has to be removed from political life. And that's an antidemocratic and authoritarian tic that concerns us. That's one of the antidemocratic tics the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u3	That's the question, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u4	...he's showing, and we ask him... Mr. President, I ask you to let me intervene...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u5	No, on the matter. No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u6	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u7	No, excuse me for a second. I'll let you do the intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u8	Mr. President, you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u9	...but we have to go to the point because you're already...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u10	Mr President, in the previous plenary session you allowed all Members of the People's Party to take a certain action in this Parliamentary House without anyone being called to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u11	No, don't tell me what I'm doing and what I'm not doing. I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u12	Mr President, I ask you about the intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u13	I'm telling you to take more than a minute and I think the question is about what's going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u14	I appreciate that you, Mr. President, who is also from Ourense and knows the lethal pact, who takes part in this Parliamentary House against the citizens of Ourense... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u15	Don't remember me, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u16	...to keep the spokesperson of a parliamentary group free.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u17	Please don't remind me where I am, who are perfectly [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u18	Everyone knows.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u19	A feeling, of course, of what I'm very proud of. To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u20	Of the deadly covenant, don't take pride, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u21	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u22	The agreement with Baltar and Jacome, because it is to rectify citizenship. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I want to tell the People's Party that these authoritarian tics can't be to cope with a pandemic and a crisis. Because what concerns all citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u23	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u24	...is to get out of this crisis with strength and for that we have to act on three main lines of action. First, we have to avoid a fourth wave with a progressive and gradual escalation. Secondly, the vaccination process needs to be strengthened. Vaccines, vaccines, vaccines, public health, public health, public health. [[Applause]] And thirdly, we must look for the lines of action for economic reactivation that will boost growth and employment in Galicia. And for those three areas we are, to hold the hand of the Government of Galicia and to work on an escape from the crisis where we can brake the curve and pull Galicia forward. On the escalation, on vaccination and on public health and on economic reactivation. But in times of pandemic there can be no democratic retreats, there can be no authoritarian tics, there can be actions outside the rule of law, and that we have to tell you, Mr. President of the Union, because another authoritarian tic that we saw in this House was the performance of the People's Party with the Health Act, which you approved here with the Roll of the People's Party and which was frozen. You, Mr. Feijóo, have been arrested by the Constitutional Court, have been suspended by the Constitution, because the majority of Parliamentarians in Galicia have adopted a rule against the rights and freedoms of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] And you, Mr. Feijóo, say that you are in favour of speaking first and then resorting, and I give you the reason, but speaking from the beginning, before you legislate, speaking before you violate fundamental rights, speaking before you exceed your competences, speaking within the Constitution for an exit from the crisis within the rule of law and without cuts in rights and freedoms. [[Applause]] That's the challenge you have to face at this time. And I want to ask you, Mr. Feijóo, that, when you have to change that health law that you have unilaterally approved, that health law that you have broken equal rights and violated your competences, do so with a different will. To avoid, Mr. Feijóo, taking advantage of the pandemic times for authoritarian tics that reverse the rights and freedoms of the Greeks and the Greeks. The strength in health, the strength in economic reactivation is consistent and possible with the reactivation within the rule of law. And that's what you have to decide. You have to decide, Mr. Feijóo, whether you want to cooperate or if you want to tension, if you want to solve or if you want to complicate, if you want to be part of the solution or you want to generate problems. And to solve the issues, the PSdEG has a hand in the economy, in health, but above all, also in the defence of rights and freedoms, and to resist, that in this crisis we cannot have attacks or violations of the Constitution and the rule of law. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u25	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight asked his question about what measures I have thought I would take for the escalation. Mr. Caballero, we are the measures we have taken that are being put into practice in the Clinical Committee. The measures we have been taking during these 13 months are those that 35 professionals, with names and names, and specific responsibilities in primary care, in preventive medicine, in hospitals of the Galician Health Service, with numbers of colleges and, therefore, known, are those who advise the Government, who advise the Health Administration and those who jointly take the measures for the various openings. That's why I'm surprised you ask me what measures I'm going to take. No, Your Honor, I will not act like the Government of Spain. The measures we have taken are the measures that are validated by the Clinical Committee that exists in Galicia and that take action and that we follow them. [[Applause]] Mr. Knight, asking me about the steps of escalation is a very surprising thing; we are immersed in an opening continuously, steadily, prudently, gradually, proportionally. That's what we're doing. Look, January 26th, with an incidence of 14 days of 741 infections per 100,000, we closed, we took action according to the Clinical Committee. On February 25th, with an incidence of 175 infections per 100,000, we started to open. Yesterday, with 97 incidents per 100,000, we kept the openings, and that's what we're going to do, Mr. Knight. If you really come to open up, you should teach in the Ministry of Health or in Moncloa, but not here, Your Honor. We don't take measures here because we love each other or because we want to go out to say what to do, even though it is later believed that action is taken without any criteria; and simply that when there are problems they are transmitted to autonomous communities. Mr. Knight, I'm surprised you're again trying to confuse the House and confuse the Greeks with the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court did not pronounce a comma on the Galician Health Act; the Constitutional Court did not suspend the Galician Health Act; the Constitutional Court took note of the automatic suspension that the Central Government is responsible for and notified it to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court dealt with it, as it could not be otherwise. There is therefore a double falsity: the Constitutional Court did not pronounce itself on the Galician Health Act and the Constitutional Court did not suspend Galician law, but what suspended it is the Government you defend, the Government of Spain. I'm surprised you tell me we're facing it. But how do we confront it? We legislate. You're saying around here that you don't want to know how many transfers and you won't even let us run the public health transfer, not even in times of pandemic. It's amazing that you're talking about transfers, you and your partners, and the statutory competences and constitutional competences that Galicia has don't let them run even in times of pandemic. Look, Mr. Knight, saying that we confront it is to say that the Government of Aragon confronts. The Government of Aragon passed a law on 3 December 2020; Article 6 of the Government of Aragon law allows the confining of the population, and in Galicia they bring us to the Constitutional Court; the Government of Aragon in Article 36 of its law allows the limitation of the number of persons in social meetings and specifically establishes six maximums, and by that same indication we are taken to the Constitutional Court; the Government of Aragon establishes the possibility of making perimeter closures covered by the Law of the Parliament of Aragon in Article 36, and by the same means they bring us to the Constitutional Court. But, Mr. Knight,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u28	...where are you from? Are you on the side of pandemic management or are you simply following, as always, the instructions you receive from Ferraz Street? Mr. Knight, with all due respect, if you had studied a little more, if you had seen what your comrades do, if you had seen what autonomous communities do, what the government of Basquedi proposes, where you are part of that Government, who is asking for a law that develops organic law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u30	...or, if not, let them legislate. Today, the President of the Government of the Canary Islands pronounced himself against the unilateral suspension of the state of alarm. Mr. Knight, we do not confront, we defend the health of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u31	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u32	Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u33	Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that, first of all, Mr Feijóo, it would be good for you to move here if the People's Party were in a position to support a state of alarm when clinical and health authorities would make it advisable. What is the position of the People's Party?, you who dare here to talk about the state of alarm, after having objected during the first wave continuously and after you yourself said last fall that having the country in state of alarm until April would be a demolition. To state the position of the People's Party, if the People's Party has any position, because you tell me to look at other autonomous communities, look at other autonomous communities, look at what you think of the People's Party of the Health Act here in Galicia; ask your partner and friend, Mrs Ayuso, who has this health law for Galicia. I don't like Mrs. Ayuso, I don't like the People's Party. They probably don't like you or what you're doing here in Galicia, either, but I'm worried about the Greeks and the Greeks, and I'm worried that in this House there's a health law that violates the rights and freedoms of the Greeks and the Greeks. And I'm telling you with all the letters, Mr. Feijóo, you want to make a continuous confusion so as not to assume that the Roll of the People's Party has violated the rights and freedoms of the Greeks and the Greeks, with legislation in which you exceed your competences. [[Applause]] Or do you think that each of the autonomous communities has to decide in Spain whether you can have vaccines mandatory, whether you can confine the Greeks to a certain situation and not to other communities, or whether you have rights to isolate in one community and not in another? What constitutional model do you defend? And of course, it was the Constitutional Court that stopped with the Constitution in hand, with the rights and freedoms of the citizens' flag, their attempt to violate those rights here in Galicia. And when we talk about measures of escalation, of course I'm telling you about the Health Act, a suspension of a law in which you have a lot to say, and that's an example of how the People's Party goes beyond its confrontation strategy. In order to govern Galicia, we must defend the rights and freedoms of the Greeks and the Greeks above all, and you can do it by fighting the pandemic because there are useful tools, such as the state of alarm and defending economic reactivation. And you've made a mistake and you don't want to take responsibility. When you say, Mr. Feijóo, that that law has no problem, are you saying, Mr. Feijóo, that the People's Party in Galicia is going to maintain that law because it considers that it does not violate any right or freedom? Are you saying that you will go to the courts to defend that you have not violated rights and freedoms? Because when you say you're willing to change the law, you're recognizing that the Constitutional Court has given you a hit on the table with the Constitution because you've been extralimited, because you've skipped rights and freedoms, and because you can't make authoritarian tics or democratic retrocessions in times of pandemic. Down the knees of the People's Party, they rule for the Greeks and the Greeks, who are concerned about arriving at the end of the month, having possibilities to resist, and doing so respecting the rights and freedoms for the Greeks and for the Greeks. The People's Party in Madrid says it's the People's Party of Freedom, false freedom because without equality there's no freedom, but the People's Party in Galicia doesn't even say that, because it restricts rights and freedoms, and I know that I wouldn't like Ayuso at all to rule in Madrid. I know you don't either, because you're on another escalation of procedures and you're very concerned about what's going on there. But, I want to tell you the truth, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u36	...rule for the Greeks and for the Greeks, and legislate with the Constitution and the Statute and with the rights and freedoms of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u38	You guys made a mistake, you know, you got it wrong, you got it out of bounds, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u39	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u40	...that they have made a legislation that needs to be changed, and, even if you don't want to recognize it, the day this House has to change that law that it will have to change, you will recognize by the way of the facts that they have committed an excess in competences, that they have violated rights and freedoms, and that their excess attempt to protagonist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u41	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u42	...he gave it to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u43	Thank you. Close this question, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u44	President, it's not easy, because you've been looking at it today, Mr. Knight. I don't know exactly what I'm asked, if I support my companion Ayuso to be president of the autonomous community, you wouldn't have any discussion. [[Laughter]] I know that you in the Socialist Party don't support each other, but that has nothing to do with the People's Parliamentary Group or this party. [[Applause]] But, look, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we have to choose, and the central government or the legislature or let it legislate. What you can't say is that to legislate about the pandemic corresponds to me, but I won't. That's for eleven months what I did. We support several states of alarm with the commitment to legislate, to give an organic law to manage a pandemic. In May, the first vice president of the Government informed us that an organic law was to be taken to manage the pandemic. They lied to us, Your Honor, it's been 13 months of inaction, 13 months taking the pandemic to joke, 13 months without legal coverage, except for the state of alarm, which is the easiest. Why legislate? We activate the alarm state. I hope Spain doesn't become a state of democratic right alarm. I hope that Spain will continue to be a democratic state of law and law to solve the problems that Spanish people have in the field of public health. But you come here arrogantly to be nothing more and nothing less than the President of the Constitutional Court, but all the members of the Constitutional Court, because you have just issued some judgments and you remain so belligerent, what gives! See: "The Government may challenge the provisions adopted by the bodies of the autonomous communities before the Constitutional Court. The challenge will result in the suspension of the contested provision," article 161.2 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has not suspended the Galician law, its Government has suspended it. And you and your central government are responsible, along with the nationalists, that the Galician law is not in force right now. Nothing else, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we are all the Greeks and all the Spaniards from May 9th, and we are helpless by the continued and constant inaction of the Central Government. We had an answer in Galicia, the Health Act, and that response was boycotted by the Central Government, the Socialist Party in Galicia and the Nationalist Block in Galicia, and by Vox, who stood against this law. But I repeat again, does the Aragon Parliament have more powers than this Parliament? Is it not true that in the Aragon Parliament when it is legislated with a law of the month of December it is not resorted to and the German law is resorted to? Is it true that the Catalan Parliament has more powers than this Galician Parliament and does not resort to it and here it is? What's the matter, Your Honor, that this law is not published in Catalan? That's the problem, Your Honor. Look, I am President of Galicia, I will continue to exercise my powers, and I thank the majority parliamentary group that represents most Galicia that would give us a tool to work. I have no interest in getting into debate with the central government, and much less in the debates that don't exist. Look, Your Honor, we proposed to the Central Government an interpretation of the law last Monday, will you accept it? We have no interest in vaccinating necessarily, that's nonsense because it has no legal coverage, we say it in the law and we say it here, why don't you sign, Your Honor, this interpretation? Look, Your Honor, this resource is a political resource, it's not a legal resource, and, if it were little, last Wednesday, Galicia received two notifications from the Central Government to open bilateral commissions and value the possible unconstitutional resource that the Government of Spain wants to propose against the Law of Reactivation of the Economy of Galicia and the Waste Law. They call us to sit down to dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u46	...and see if any changes are really to be made or there is some question. They called us last Wednesday to sit down, why didn't they call us to sit down in the Health Act? Why did they resort directly to the Health Act without mediating a single knowledge or warning? And why are they suspending the Health Act without knowledge and warning?, and yet in the Waste Law and the Economic Reactivation Law they call us to speak, i.e.,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u48	...that during a pandemic the law is suspended to manage the pandemic and, however, there is time to talk about waste and time to talk about economic reactivation. Mr. Knight, this resource is political, it's partisan, and it's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u49	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u50	And one day you'll wake up from your paperboard...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u51	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u52	... all this time, exactly the same paper that the Socialist Party of Galicia has made...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u53	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u54	...against Junta when I claimed IVE...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u55	President, your time is up. Thank you, your time is up, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u56	...the 200 million euros that we owe and that the Supreme Court is starting to put a little order. There's a tough government and an irresponsible government. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the realization of the announced launch of a new model of care for older people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the vaccine has wiped out the deaths by cowardice in the residences, but it would be immoral to forget the drama suffered in these centers, where 790 people have died that will always be in our hearts. We're talking about 34% of all virus victims. The pandemic has brought to light the problems of residences, but let's not cheat; those problems were already there; they already existed in a model that was fully privatized and that places the care of our elders on two extremes: the pure and hard business, controlled by investment funds that many operate from tax havens, or the care charity with entities linked to the Catholic Church. DomusVi is an example of the first group, owned by a British capital fund that operates from Jersey Island, manages in Galicia around 4,800 squares. The San Rosendo Foundation and the Germans of the Disarmed Ancients enter the second category, with more than 5,000 squares. And the question is very simple: do we want the care of older people, our parents, our grandmothers, to be in the hands of companies doing business with old age? Do we want him to be in the hands of institutions associated with the Church who understand this as the care charity? At the BNG we say no, neither charity nor business with old age, as you do, Mr. Feijóo, Josefina Fernández, President of DomusVi and to whom you hand over all the gold medals. [[Applause]] What we stand for from BNG is public service to ensure the right to a decent old age, and that's why we propose a new model of residence. We're realistic and we know that an 85% privatized model does not recover in two days, but we have to work without pause with that objective. And I want to make three realistic proposals that only need political will. The first, direct public management of the seven residences provided for in the cities of Greece. Secondly, we will recover all privatized residences as the contracts are completed. Third, a residence law that puts our seniors in the center, knowing that residence is the last resort. A law that bets by the public, because we have to build public residences, which increases the minimum personnel ratios for each user, which ends with precariousness and low workers' wages, to which we want to continue to recognize the enormous effort they make, which increases inspections and makes this service really work. And finally, Mr. Feijó, transparency. We want a transparent system that returns accounts to families and also to society as a whole. And I want to ask you a very specific question, I ask you, tell us, Mr. Feijóo, how much it costs us the bill we pay to the private sector of residences. Ladies and gentlemen, after the pandemic's life, it would be immoral to limit itself to cosmetic changes; what is needed is a new public model and quality, because a society that doesn't care for its elders is a society that doesn't respect itself. That's why I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, what is the realisation of this new model of residence you've announced?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u59	It cannot be otherwise, Mr. President and Mrs. Pontón, that we regret each of the deaths by the vault that occurred in Galicia, in an explicit and concrete way in relation to the deaths that occurred in the residences of the third age and, of course, also to all the infected still in number of 3,000 are suffering from this pandemic and that occurred in many thousands in Galicia, more than 115,000. Your Honor, I think it would be good to acknowledge that Galicia, in relation to its residences, was the autonomous peninsula community with the least impact of deaths in senior residences. I'm saying that because there are 18,200 workers who are dedicated to this, and I think it would be good to value what these professionals have done, many of them sleeping in some residences without being able to go home so they can't get the chance to contaminate residents. I think it's fair for the BNG to stop constantly and continuously disregarding those workers and to put in value what they did. Because, look, the number of deaths in total inmates in Spain was more than 10% and in Galicia 4%. Therefore, 18,200 people have been working very hard, giving up, and many times initially, in the first few weeks, without enough materials to protect their health. The 18,200 workers deserve respect, although the BNG because of an ideological problem considers that these workers who work in companies, corporate entities, etc., etc., do not deserve respect. Why? Because they're not officials. That's the approach I come to hear here today. Look, Galicia has had clear protocols, specific action measures and powerful interventions. Galicia was the pioneer in creating integrated residences; the first one we did was on the ten days of the pandemic on March 24. We opened four during the pandemic, that is to say, build a residence of infected people to care for them with staff care. Galicia was one of the first autonomous communities to intervene in some private homes, we specifically intervened 14 centers. Galicia has set up an intensive audit programme, 300 inspections and 161 audits, total: 461 interventions. You went to the council to see the documentation. By the way, they didn't tell the citizens anything, I suppose they'd find them all right. So I also ask for respect for the Health Inspectorate and the Social Inspectorate. Look, the only marriage that the Galician People's Party has and the Galician Union is with the Greeks, Your Honor, not with any company, nor with any entity, and there we are going to follow. As for vaccination, welcome, Mrs. Pontón, vaccination. Look, zero dead in the last 36 days, zero contaminated in the last 37 days. I come here to make a call to the whole population to be vaccinated, because residences believe that the vaccine is the unique and effective method against the pandemic. The vaccine, Mrs. Pontón, is what we saw inoculate in residences and disability centers, which certainly seems to you to forget. It's just that there are people who have been interns at disability centers, who seem to forget. You know why? Because all disability centers are managed by social entities and only three are managed by the Galician Union. Why don't you propose now that the disability centres also manage them in Galicia directly and leave the disability centres of social institutions out of their resources? But this kind of demagoxy, what does it consist of? Mrs. Pontón, why don't you look at what BNG did? What BNG does in the municipalities, in the deputies, and what he did during the bipartite to come and talk here during a pandemic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u61	...that we do not have equal treatment for residents and our elders. Mrs. Pontón, we created a new model of legislation: the first thing we did was to create a General Directorate for Sociosanitary Care, in front of a doctor; and, secondly, to set up a commission with 19 people (medical, nursing and specific staff, general, etc.) to build a new residence model. We're taking him to the Reactivation Commission. BNG amendment proposals, zero. What's your residence model, Mrs. Pontón? Exactly what do you propose?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u63	...see, we propose a clinical history in residences, priority pathways for hospital income from residences, referees from health centers to residences. We propose technology, computer censuses, a smart home program for people living alone, structural and architectural reforms, and a necessary regulatory review. We're still working on the new residence model, Your Honor. But please respect the 18,200 workers of residences and disability centers, and respect, Your Honor, the data, because respecting the data is respecting the memory of the victims. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u64	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u65	Mr. Feijóo, don't change; in this country the only people who have the right to be changed are the people who have seen the drama that lived in the residences, since those who died to their families, the workers and the workers. [[Applause]] I ask you for respect and rest, Mr. Feijóo, because the problem is you don't want to see what's going on. And I'm going to tell you what BNG did when he had the ability to rule this country. Well, look, the BNG in three years was able to do more for the well-being of the older and the child than the 34-year-old People's Party, which the only model that stands for is the privatization of public services. [[Applause]] That's your balance sheet, Mr. Feijóo. And, look, I ask you not to despise the workers of our country's public residences, because do you know what the greatest contempt these workers have for society so much? That while you finance companies with one hand, with the other what they have is precarious and low wages, and you don't want to change that job. Don't despise the workers in this country and don't hide their disaster behind them. [[Applause]] Indeed, I should make an ethical and moral reflection of how you can continue to come here to boast of the death data of residences. Break my heart every time I hear it, Mr. Feijóo! Don't keep playing with that theme. [[Applause]] And, look, unfortunately, your answer is that you haven't been surprised, because you've been in a policy of harassment for 12 years and you've been under public service, it seems that what you want is to dismantle the state of well-being. And instead of coming here to tell us that the alarm that 85% of the residential squares are privatized, at the bottom of the story, it seems to you that it is not privatized by 85% of education and 85% of health, because that's what society is asking us for is a reflection of the future, and to us of course it surprises us that Mr. Feijóo comes here to defend what seems great to him, to defend the companies that see old age as a business and which also operate from tax havens. That's what surprises us, Mr. Feijóo, that you come here. And do you really tell me that changing model residences is an electronic file? After everything we've lived through, after all that's happened in the residences, can you come and tell us that's the big change, the electronic file? We are making concrete proposals to him and I ask him to be clear. Is that what you're talking about? Is there going to be a direct management of the seven residences that are currently planned? yes or no? Because perhaps Mrs. Josefina Fernández is already rubbing her hands because she sees more business in that construction of new residences, which seems to be what you are defending. [[Applause]] Are you going to set up decent working conditions for the workers? Will privatizations that have occurred will be reverted? Are you going to have an inspection service to really work? Are you going to increase the sanctions, Mr Feijóo? Because it's cheaper to fail than to comply, it's cheaper for businesses. That's what's happening, and that's what we've seen with wonder over the past few months, which have been something tragic. Mr. Feijó, we're talking about a fundamental topic. We need to learn from the lessons of this pandemic, and if any lessons are left to us, the model of privatized residences fails from top to bottom. If you respect this country, you respect our elders, Mr Feijóo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u67	Very well, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, you've done more BNG for no time than the Galician Union, etc., etc., etc. Well, if you say so, the problem is that you can say what you want, the important thing is the number of people who are in senior residences, the number of people who are in alzeimer centers, the number of people who are in disability centers. That's the reality. On privatization, question as you might imagine, Mrs. Pontón, that I will not contradict, of course. But, look, I do know what the two-party government has done since it arrived in 2005 to April 2009. The two-party government launched 4 public residences, with 240 squares, and held 5 public residences with 640 squares. Are you going to keep talking about privatization? I mean, you guys, who had nothing more and nothing less than that direct competition, open up 4 residences and make five. [[Murmurs.]] Small residences, Galician Union, 240 squares; large residences, 607 squares arranged with these companies to which you refer. It's amazing, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] Let's keep talking about privatization. We're seeing the Home Help Service, which perceives 24,000 people; and we're going to the BNG councils, of course, because it gives us light on the management of public services. People's Party Councils with private management, 29%; Socialist Party Councils, 45.5%; BNG Councils, 46.6%. The number of municipalities with more privatization of Home Help Service, the municipalities of BNG. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's keep going. [[Murmurs.]] Deputation of Lugo, bipartite BNG-PSOE, after losing, Mr. Caballero, we missed a seat for the Deputy of Lugo, which we are going to do!, we are Democrats. Well, look, after all this, residences in Lugo, 5 residences open the Deputy of Lugo, all outsourced, 3 with companies and 2, as you say, with the Catholic Church. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But are you really going to keep on taking the hair of all the Galicians who are looking at us? But let's go on at the Rebound Town Hall, BNG. Who's just been given the residence? To a construction company. But are you really serious about the old-age residences and their forms of management today? Look, this is what BNG did, but not what he did in early times, but what he does, continuously and steadily, at present, is what he tries and considers appropriate. And I'm not the critic, Mrs. Pontón, but what if the critic is his hypocrisy, his political hypocrisy, and his hypocrisy by saying that this Government is interested in the best interests and that we felt for not knowing that... but, Mrs. Pontón, how can you say that at parliamentary headquarters? How can you say that this political group sucks at the deaths of residences? But do you think we don't have a heart? Do you think we don't have any older ones in our families? But, Mrs. Pontón, a little respect. If he doesn't have us, at least the families that lost people. Look, Mrs. Pontón, since we got to the government, we've been multiplying the social services markets by two. In 2009 there were 12,000 social services squares, day centers, alzeimer, residences, good bookshops, major houses, disability squares... 12,000, and today there are 24,636. For two. Number of residences, public-funded residences: with the BNG 5,500, with the Popular Party 8,026. 43.8% more. But, Mrs. Pontón, what are we accused of? Do you really come here to give a class of direct management of public services with these BNG background, which is the party that privatizes the Home Help most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u69	...and the party that, ruling in the Lugo Deputy, externalizes all the residences it manages, and a party that manages in Ribadeo and gives the exploitation of the residence to a construction company? Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, be careful to walk around saying these kinds of questions, because in a very short time people will laugh, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u71	...please, Mrs. Pontón, if you want to build a new architectural model, a new model of care capacity, a new model of residency relationship with health, a new socio-health model in Galicia, you have the open gates of the Galician Union. But if you come with this kind of hypocrisy, the problem is they'll close the doors to you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u72	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u73	We continue with point 4 of the agenda, not a bill proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Mr. Da Paloma Castro Rey, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the assumption of new competences by the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u74	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block and the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presents the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal:Additional amendmentAdditional amendment Adds a new paragraph to the end of the resolution with the following text:"Asemade, Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to comply with the agreement of the Greek Parliament of the year 2019 in which, unanimously, the Government of the State was asked to transfer Galicia to all those powers which had already been transferred to other autonomous communities, or which were in the process of negotiation for this purpose.")]] [[(G. P. People's People of Galicia, through its spokesman and at the initiative of Mr Alberto Paz Pazos Couñago, in the light of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the provisions of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the Rules of the House's Rules of Procedure, the following General P. P. P. People's People's People's People of Galicia of Galicia, presented before this Bureau the following General P. P. People's People's People's People's People of Galicia's Republic of Galicia, through its spokesman and at the initiative of Mr Alberto, at the request of Article 161.2 and in accordance with the provisions of Article 16 and in accordance with the Rules of the Rules of the House of the European Parliament and in accordance with the Rules of the Rules of the House of the European Parliament and in accordance with the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of this Chamber, the following the following the following Rule 161.2 of the Rules of the Rules of Parliament of Parliament, the following the following the Bureau, the following the following the Bureau, the following the following the following the following the following the following amendment of the following the following the following the following the amendment of the following the following the amendment of the following amendment of the following the following the following the following amendment of the following the opinion of the following the following the opinion of the following the following the following the following the following the opinion of the following the opinion of the following the following the following the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the following the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of Mr Alberto of the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the opinion of the opinion of the opinion of the following the following the following the following the opinion of Mr President of the following the opinion of the opinion of Mr Alberto of Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr Mr Alberto of Mr Mr Mr Alberto of Mr Alberto of Mr Alberto of the opinion of the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the following the following Mr Alberto of the following the following the following the following the opinion of the opinion of the following the following]] To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Aranguena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I expressed my rejection for Jacobaltarism's antidemocratic attempt to silence and expel the most voted candidate from politics in Ourense municipalities, Rafa Villarino. And I said and I repeat that what's going on in Ourense is part of a very dangerous fascist broth and that it's more evidence than Vox is in the People's Party of Galicia; more specifically, in the section Vox well nourished and represented in this House. Today, I want to ask you how can you dare to claim an honest and clean politician as a skeptic, like Rafa Villarino, who has also won the elections, who withdraws from politics when you've been a part of the Cacichism, Nepotism and the chanchos of the Ourense People's Party? Why does Rafa Villarino have to retire? [[Applause]] For being the most voted? For not being part of your chanchos? For being an honest and clean man in a land marked and stained by corruption? Going to the subject, the PSdG has always defended that the history of the state of autonomy, with all its problems and vicissitudes, is together a story of success. Economic, political and social success of what the PSdG was involved, as was the one of the hard achievement of the Statute of autonomy of Galicia, paraphrasing the title of Ceferino Díaz's book. Politically it allowed to articulate with all the tensions and dialectics inherent in democracy the territorial demands of a plural state and contributed to the vertebrate of that invertebrate Spain of which Ortega spoke more than a century ago. Economically it has opened four decades of prosperity that have no precedent in our history. And socially it has made the multi-level articulation of a state of well-being which goes through difficult times but which allows many people today to keep their fleet in the midst of the current storm. This relative success -- because everything is relative -- of the state of autonomy was not assured when the constitutional signature began, because there was not a predetermined and default roadmap for development, but rather a deliberately flexible constitutional architecture opened up a fan of possibilities that were developing as it advanced our democracy but could have been in a different way. The state of autonomy is still an open process between two dangers, the Escila of the centralizing temptation and the Caribdis of independence. The first, the centralizing drift, specifically represented by Vox, which in Galicia -- as I say -- is integrated into the Vox section of the PP here present, and also by the state PP itself, with a Casado that in the April 2019 elections said it was priority to recentralize, but then in November 2019 it said it was already much less priority. And now we don't know what he says, as we don't know what he'll say tomorrow because married is a lord of Marxist principles, of which Groucho Marx said that if he doesn't like it, I have others. And independence is embodied in the Catalan spook, a country that in 2010 decided to throw itself into the mountain deceived by people like the Pujol, real cynics who practiced corruption on an industrial scale while exalting their identity passions, which gives a fairly approximate idea of the country strategy of some people who blend and confuse the country with their pocket. This initiative is the same as was promoted by the PSdG and debated and rejected by the PP two years ago. Too many things have changed in those two years, but we still bet on moving forward in the autonomic model, a model that we claim, while we believe in its perfection because federalism is not something static, but dynamic. And we believe in federalism and we believe that there must be no problems because it advances in the transfer of competences. This initiative is a demonstration that we make a radical defense of a moderate idea, as is the state of autonomy, as far as the defenders of the immoderate radicalism that moderate radicality seems to them to be not at the height of their delirium, and the advocates of immobilism seem too radical to them. To deepen the state of autonomy, defending the character of Galician historical nationality, that is our proposal. Because the fact is that the Government of Feijóo abdicated the claim of that historic nationality by a double way: firstly, refusing to extend our self-government, giving up entirely to the extent that in 12 years it was not that he was incapable, but that he did not even have or expressed the intention of obtaining any new competition. Not a new competition in 12 years, not the first, not one, that's the balance in terms of expanding Galician self-government, zero. But as far as the exercise of that self-government is concerned, the Government of Galicia has given up its powers in practice; for example, in industrial policy, Galicia's exclusive competence, together with economic promotion, in accordance with our Statute of Self-Government. Two competencies in which in the last 12 years the Government of Greece has been missing and missing, and in the last two by practicing the most blatant escapism and saying that all the negatives happening in Galicia are -- according to you -- the blame of the central government, which would maintain a sort of dark and incomprehensible conspiracy to prejudice Galicia, when the economic and social and industrial changes taking place are, first, fruit of global trends, and, secondly, in economic and industrial matters, of the lack of policy on the subject by the Government of Galicia. The same escapism that they have practiced throughout the pandemic, during which they blamed the central government, the local administrations, Portugal and, of course, the citizenry... for not having been more guilty. And with these vimbies, with this escapism and constitutional disloyalty there is no way to govern us effectively and effectively, because you run away from your competences, from our powers won with effort. We believe that -- as The Resenteds said -- Galicia is a different place, as it has so many peculiarities that it is even difficult to calibrate to its fair extent. Half of Spain's population nuclei, with 5.6% of the population, Spain's largest coastal area with the outstanding singularity, the singularity of the rivers. The largest forest sector, a particular orography, economic specificities such as the structure of agricultural property and social specificities such as aging; specificities sufficient to consider specific treatment. And that's why we're proposing to expand competences in such matters as trafficking, which has already been approved yesterday, or the inspection of work, the management of the coast, but also the public domain maritime-terrestrial or forest policy, or the judicial demarcation... up to a total of 30 competences. Each and every one of these reasonable, reasonable and perfectly viable skills, no extravagance. You don't give to the sun about more self-government, or about angry fictions that don't lead anywhere, or about mimicking us with other communities, but a concrete and detailed relationship, a concrete and defined package of progress and stimulus of our self-government. Because we're on the line of efficient federalism that doesn't understand it aprioritically that things are better than the state or do them to our autonomous community, but that you understand that there is a need to analyze what the state can do better and that it can do better Galicia. Because thinking of federal key -- as Professor Maiz said at a recent meeting of my party -- is the way to overcome territorial tensions by promoting cooperation and dialogue in the face of confrontation and taxation, promoting positive and inclusive emotions against those who promote negative and exclusive because, if they did not realize, independence was replaced by interdependence in the 21st century. I am crowned, Welsh, Spanish, European and citizen of the world; that is, my identity is multiple; and I belong to the republic of letters as belonging to the kingdom of nature and belong to my Greek land as belonging to my crowned peninsula, as I belong to that other land which is a small blue planet that some call Gaia, which revolves around a star. And we're all -- you and you too -- dust of living stars and tiny particles in an infinity cosmic tissue that doesn't end up in the Anchors or run out in Madrid. Nothing else and we'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Tabares Pérez-Pineiro speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u77	I'm star dust! [[Laughter]] Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The first is to make a little incision, in view of what Mr. President said. I was one of the Members and Members of this House who went to see, inspect what they left me -- very limited -- of the residence records. As a result, we asked and asked the Galician Board to forward the files to the Prosecutor's office; I don't know if they've done so yet, but that could give us an idea of what we saw and what we saw. [[Applause]] Also in that line of explanation, I would like you to tell us why in 2010 public participation was sold, 45% of public participation, in Sogassso. And then why, sold to the boxes for 45 million, around 5 years allowed a 5 million euros ball for DomusVi. Privatize public resources for private ballasts. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And then, well, now that Mrs. Marta has entered, not anymore, but along with Noa, let me start with that, I am a Member for Ourense and a citizen of Ourense; I think that until Mrs. Marta came in, she was the only one. And that's why I want to appeal to the People's Party, because they talk so much about Ourense, even though they don't care enough. We ask them to facilitate, allow the motion of censure. That they allow the motion of censure, that they end with this government of what you are responsible for and that you are having terrible consequences for the citizenship of Ourense; I know they don't care much, we do because we are suffering a lot. And they're responsible because you've been feeding for years -- with public resources, by the way -- Mr. Gonzalo Pérez Jacome. Then, knowing it was lethal, they made mayor. Then they took part in the government and abandoned the government, and at the moment citizenship doesn't know if the People's Party is or not in the Government of Ourense. What we do know is that we have a paralysed city, where to care for people in situations of social emergency -- to care for people, not their needs -- it takes six months. There's no cultural activity in the county and the cultural sector is fading. We have no budgets or plans for urbanism. Keep worrying about the change of seat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u78	Mr. Tabares, on the matter, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u79	No, that's the point. I'm talking about transfers, transfers of rights and transfers of dignity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u80	To the point. Mr. Tabares, second call to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u81	Well, about the initiative. We advance our favourable vote. We have tabled the amendment. And initially our moderate satisfaction because, after the previous plenary session, where this closed defense of Javier de Burgos' work, which is going to be 200 years old, that provincial division, even the denial of the ability to decide citizenship even within the Constitution, because this initiative seemed to us a little fresh air or at least hopeful. And we supported it and supported it in the sense of that intention to increase self-government, that the Socialist Party -- the PSdG, if there exists -- considers that Galicia's ability to manage public resources and the needs and interests is not a nationalist theme, but that it is good for the Greeks and for the Greeks and for this country. And in that sense we support her by understanding that she's not excessively ambitious, and even has a little mistake. It's not excessively ambitious because it's just a reproduction of another previous legislation, but it's much more childish than it's already agreed by this Parliament, also by the PSdeG in 2008, even in 2019. And now we're asking for less competence. And by the way, in some of my personal confusion, I don't understand how the judicial demarcation is requested and the judicial plant isn't required. I advise you to look at that project, I'm sure it has already done that project that approved the Government of the State, of the Law of Organizational Efficiency of the Public Service, where it seems that, instead of decentralizing or even deconcentrating, what is being done is with centralizing trends and leading to Madrid our own needs, only our own. And then I think that, except for one mistake on my part -- I don't think -- but at least one competition is already transferred. It is obviously transferred at the time of the bipartisan, because I agree that since 2009 there has been no transfer to Galicia. 78 competences were transferred to different communities, to virtually all communities except Murcia and Galicia. Even Rajoy's Government has transmitted and transferred EUR millions of competences to communities like Canarias, Madrid, Castela-León, Castela-A Mancha, Rioxa, millions of euros... to Galicia none. Although the People's Party in 2009, in the midst of a crisis, that is, the People's Party can transfer skills and manage at the same time -- we understand that even in a crisis situation it would be a good thing -- they announced a commitment to claim 70 competitive spaces. None. In 2010 Mr. Rueda announced the transfer, the claim to the State of 17 competences: labour inspection, management of maritime-terrestrial domain, coastal management, transit, watershed, etc. Nothing. In 2012 they promised the same; in 2016 they promised the same. Nothing, ads, ads, unmet ads, in that they are constant. They were already doing this in 2009 and still doing it in 2021, ads, ads, ads without practical effectiveness for the Greek people, with no effect whatsoever. But what's the point of the problem? For in essence they are more comfortable in opposition; in opposition to the state, in opposition to the councils, in opposition to that excess of paroxysm, in opposition to themselves, the People's Party itself opposes the People's Party. But I intend to solve the problems, to manage, none. I'm putting two examples. One, the Welsh police. They have the capacity, because it is already formally created, to develop the national body of the Welsh police. Nothing, they're more comfortable asking officers for the Assistant Police Unit, as it's already Place, be it for Ourense, be it for Vigo and indefinitely. The same with the Spanish National Police, more agents. They even protest by the organization, by the centralization of 091 Ourenses and Lugo in the Coruña, when it is an agreed measure, executed in this case by the Socialist Party, but agreed by Mr. Cosidó. Don't I know if you remember Mr. Cosidó? --famous for icalapps --. Well, when he was Chief Executive Officer, those centralizations agreed with him, and they're opposing themselves. And now with your EVI claim amendment, we actually support that claim of 200 million EVI settlement 2017. But what are we going to do? In 2017 we claim this, in 2018 again, in 2021, 2022 or 2023 we do the same again. Wouldn't it be better...? It wouldn't be better... there's... what they call it... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, man, no, that contagion, that always talks to the president. [[Murmurs.]] Well... that's right, so be careful with that. Well, in the end, instead of claiming this 2017 liquidation to repeat this in subsequent years, wouldn't it be better to change the financing system and the settlement system so that it was us who liquidated and were in solidarity with the Spanish State, even with Madrid, which is what it corresponds to? But what's going on? That instead of solving the problem at once, we're much better at doing opposition on a point-of-the-art basis, on a casual or conjunctural basis to the Spanish State. We need to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks and not just simply to oppose the opposition, the People's Party, the corresponding. No, that's not our job or what we're paid for or what we're asked of the people's representatives. And finally, explain the reason for our amendment, which is a double reason. On the one hand and in the current status quo and in the future of the unsatisfactory regulatory framework we have, what we want is to increase our self-government by equate it with other nations of the state or even equate it with other regions of the state. To be no less than anyone else, not to lose our status of historical nationality, because our status of historical nationality is not due to an objective fact that was to plebiscite the Statute in 1932. What do you owe it to?; to a subjective fact, to which the Greek people in 1932, in 1846 and in the 21st century have a desire for sovereignty, and that is what determined the condition invented in the Constitution of historical nationality. There was no legal term of nationality. And finally, our amendment is to check its degree of involution, because it is simply a reproduction of a parliamentary agreement of January 23, 2019. A Parliamentary Agreement of the Commission 1st -- yes, Mr Puy -- a Parliamentary Agreement of the Commission 1st, with a transaction of the People's Party agreed unanimously. So it's not just increasing our self-government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u83	...but it's depicting your process of involution. And even if they have the majority parliamentary, not the majority social...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u84	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u85	...this process...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u86	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u87	...it's a matter, I'm a letter, but it's a mathematical matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Tabaretes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u89	And that they can impose their involuntarily reversive positions and positions... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u90	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u91	...will not end with the areas of progress...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u93	...of the Greek people and of the sovereignty of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u94	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u95	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by replying again to Mr. Arangüena Smith, Vox's spokesman in this Parliament, who, after offering profusely fleshy gifts from his organization, gave us another performance with this of fascism and I want to add myself. I want to add myself to the defense of a socialist who was forced to leave a list after being the most voted, Mr. Orozco, to which you fired because BNG and En Marea demanded it. And I ask: Was Mr. Orozco less socialist than Mr. Villarino? Was BNG and En Marea more fascist than PP? Or did the Galician Socialist Party just become a perfect joke? You're a joke, you don't trivialize fascism, which is a very serious thing for you to come and say here the cries they said today, and I say so forcefully, crying. Defend the most voted list. [[Applause]] Tell the truth! We defend respect for the most voted list when it comes to the PSOE. And when you offer the People's Party a pact to respect that in all the municipalities, what did they say? No, that's what I'm asking you and I'm worried about you Ourense. What they were worried about was to throw Mr. Baltar, which bothers them is that he's been winning the elections since they were invented, that's what bothers them. But I want to start talking about this already, thanking the opposition groups who join in this defense of Galician self-government because I really believe that the PPdeG had been taking too long alone defending the interests of the country and all help is welcome, all help is welcome. [[Murmurs.]] I only put two conditions: let the help be sincere and consistent. Because the experience you'll understand makes us suspicious. This group wants to believe, but they already know what the heated cat runs away from the cold water. We couldn't count on his help on such decisive issues as the defense of the intensive industry, months of lies to approve an absolutely insufficient status. Not even in the defense of the bridge workers, those who have left absolutely thrown away. Nor in the claim of fair treatment in Spain's budgets; they told us that we had to be happy because the pensions were paid, which must be that the previous governments were not paid. Nor do we count on your help in paying for the debts of the Greeks, including the VAT, that debt with us of taxes and taxes. Right? We don't count on you either in the defence of German civil law, attacked by the Central Government. We don't even count on you to defend the House's legislative capacity. We were asked here yesterday to bring down the flag of the protection of the health of the Greeks. Without bilateral, without trying to reach an agreement, without waiting for the resolution of the pending appeal. And yet they said it, it's been 14 months and we don't have a walk. Actually, that's the drama. It's been 14 months of pandemic and we don't have anything because there's a government that's the dog of the vegetable, which doesn't leave legislate or legislate. And what do we ask? I ask for the same thing as President González Laxe the other day: instruments of loyalty between the Government of the State and autonomy. And that's why we called for a conference of presidents, we called for dialogue and we called for real co-governance, which you've been denying for months, ladies and gentlemen, months. But we're willing to hold our hand again. Now, whenever this vague proposal made today by self-government is accompanied by real commitments. Because we can't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that in order to put you Mr. Sánchez in Moncloa, the groups that today occupy the opposition did not hesitate to commit a fraud, a fraud, that fraud called the PSOE and BNG pact, with which they wanted to deceive the Greeks first, and then go over the institutions of Galicia. In this wet paper pact, in which, by the way, there was nothing, so interesting, Mr Tabares, that you have not a word, you have dared to convene the Joint Transfer Commission in the first quarter of 2020. First they usurp the functions of institutions, what legitimacy do you and your party have to convene a transfer commission? Well, we just understood, as you haven't understood yet that 42 sums more than all you add together, of course, they question democracy. But how will democracy be understood if you don't know basic mathematics? That's just your problem, gentlemen. [[Applause]] But they did. And then they signed a pact. They are very proud of the covenant. The Atlas Rego which fell on its backs the weight of whole Galicia. They promised the AP-9 fee bonus by 2020. What did we have? Rate rises in 2020, rates rises in 2021. And yesterday... by the way, the elimination of the payroll that's engaged to 2018 we're still waiting, they told us to see if it's summer. But we still heard yesterday that the rise of peas was imputed to Ana Pastor. Official State Gazette. "Investment compensation system and the highest cost of maintaining the AP-9 motorway. As an investment compensation system carried out, as well as the other obligations that Audasa assumes under this Convention, i.e. all the investments necessary for the execution of the works and their subsequent conservation and exploitation, an extraordinary increase of tariffs is established on the routes with direct payment of the users of the AP-9 motorway in all its 1% cumulative annual tranches for 20 years". Signature, November 18, 2011, Minister of Development, José Blanco López. [[Murmurs.]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that you've gone from using the lie as an excuse to turn the lie into your political strategy, lie by custom, lie by conviction and lie by no means. It's a shame. They promised 50% of the Dependency Act already, for this legislation. She's been dismissed by the government. We've been told they're not going to do it. They promised the exemption of labour reform, and today they boast of a ERA who wanted to derogate and to those who today hold on as if the labor escape stone were in Spain. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, they promised until the reform is repealed... they promised us heaven and brought us to nothing, or, worse, they brought us the oldest government in the history of democracy. Look, the PSdeG's PNL presents a transfer gap where, if you're allowed to do so, it's the absences: neither an AP-9 word, nor a single reference to debt. For its part, the BNG submits a amendment intentionally manipulating a Parliament agreement. Galicia does not want the same powers as other autonomous communities, Your Honor, what we want is to decide which are the competences that we are interested in. Don't confuse citizenship, because I ask them for coherence, it's another thing that asked them for sincerity and coherence. Home! You will understand that the consistency is that the priorities of the German self-governance do not decide them the Basque lehendakari, do not decide them the honourable one, the most honorable president of the Generalitat, or that they decide the opposition of Galicia. The reasonable thing, the consistent thing will be that the president, legitimately elected by the Greeks, is called Alberto Núñez Feijóo, ladies and gentlemen, coherence! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] We've been promised the transfer of AP-9, but they don't talk about anything in their proposal. Hey! They promised an AP-9 free of fees and, at the same time they promised us, they promised Europe that they would extend the fees to all Spanish buses. From the economic debt to Galicia, they must not be interested in meeting the needs of the Greeks. That's right, they come here in every plenary session, and I demand that we water Galicia with money, but the billen seal it. They asked us, and they offer us so vaguely on the list, the maritime-terrestrial domain. Hey! But we want the powers to the maritime-terrestrial domain to protect the industry that exists there; you want a marine-terrestrial domain managed once it's uprooted, uprooted, which is what you want. For the PPdeG, I think it's reasonable, it must be the Greeks who decide the self-government of Galicia, without any limit, by the truth, that the constitutional framework that the Greeks and the whole of the Spaniards gave us. We asked for an equal treatment. You can criticize Rajoy because it's restrictive, it's critical, but it's fairly restrictive. They now negotiate transfers, not thinking about the state, but based on the partisan interests of the gentleman who is presiding over the Government. And he says Rajoy didn't give Galicia anything, but if he gave us the tax incentives for compliance he took away the PSOE! But how come I don't give Galicia anything? Look, yesterday I heard Mr Bará say that the difference between the PP and the BNG was that the PP had the Statute as a roof and the BNG had the Statute as a soil, it's not true. We have the Statute as a soil, what we have as a roof is the Constitution, because it covers us all, protects us all and protects us all. You guys, what you'd prefer is to leave the Galicians without a roof, at the level, without more coverage than their demagogy, that sickening vision in which there is only democracy if you preside over it. Look, let's be serious, let's be strict, let's start doing things right and let's try to learn from past mistakes. Of these barbarians of the past we all have, we should have all at least met and taken into account the problem they brought us, when all were congratulations and embraces with nationalism, the same one that just criticized Mr. Aranguena now, it's an amazing thing, that nationalism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u97	...with which you ruled a statute that later became constitutional. I want to remember that premonition of Mr. Zapatero: " Within ten years, Spain will be stronger, Catalonia will be better integrated and you and I will live it." God wants President Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u99	...has a better vision of the future than the socialists have so far shown in Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Arangéna Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Tabares for his favourable vote, just as it was yesterday for his initiative. And he says that this initiative is not excessively ambitious, it seems to him that it is not excessively ambitious. Well, it won't be excessively ambitious, but it includes the transfer you put on the table yesterday and 29 more; therefore, we believe it's ambitious enough even if it doesn't look like you. And then he speaks of a consideration that I have to try to counteract, that is to be no less than no one. I spoke to him before federalism as a way of thinking about democracy and territorial articulation in a positive way. In a positive way, with positive emotions, including cooperation and dialogue. No less than no one is a positive emotion and it also leads to the amendment that you proposed, that we will not accept, with all due respect, because they aim mimetically that any competition that has another community has Galicia. And I don't know, I don't want to reduce this to absurd, but if tomorrow the Basque Country asks for the transfer of the Basque ball, I don't think Galicia has to ask for the transfer of the issues related to the Basque ball. As far as Mr Pazos is concerned, let us talk about the organic issues of the PSdeG and compare them with cacicism and the anti-democratic fact that is taking place in Ourense, when it comes to expeling the most voted candidate and silencing the most voted candidate by Jacobaltarism. Don't compare yourself, and I don't get involved in the organizational issues of the People's Party, I get into their [Cacicism, Nepotism and corruption], and that's what worries me, not their organic problems. [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by order of the President and the author of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell us not to banish fascism. Well, yesterday Mr. Paz called me Orange Smith; today he repeats and calls me Orange Smith. Actually, I didn't pick up the joke yesterday until I gave it to you -- you're a very nice and funny guy, but I didn't catch the joke -- until, by turning it back on someone we came to the conclusion that it was a comparison with Ortega Smith; actually, it doesn't offend me particularly, but I have to tell you that it's unfortunate. Because, look, I'm a grandson of a doctor who was officially filed, laborically reprisaled in 1936 for simply sympathizing with the Azña Party. And I'm the son of a father who was on the list of people debugging -- debugging in general -- in the 1981 coup d'état for being the Socialist Party. So I don't come from the same tradition as you and Mr Smith. And you belong to a party founded by Mr. Puy's uncle who in the 1960s took pictures, Mr. Puy's uncle, with his fist on high and his phalanx uniform. Besides you are the ones who rule with Vox in different institutions in this country, for example in the governments of Murcia or Andalusia. And, going to matter, the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño had twelve transfers, competences, in four years. At that time Mr. Rueda seemed very few; in fact, he said they were transpasins. But then in twelve years, no transfer, no transfer, no transfer, no transfer, nothing, nothing. And in an interview at the TVG on December 15, 2017, Mr. Rueda acknowledged that the PP government said that no more transfers could be made, that's all. Rajoy's government said no, pum!, that's when the self-government ends. I mean, the explanation for not moving forward in self-government was simply that Rajoy didn't like it, but he did make transfers to the Basque Country and others, and you shut up, which is what they usually do in these situations. Incredibly, in the same interview Mr. Rueda said that more self-government means more ability to intervene in things that improve the day-to-day of the Greeks, without getting colored, because Mr. Rueda lives in lie and propaganda in such a blatant way that he never gets colored when he releases the bigger trolls. And, in fact, given the case of Mr. Conde, it seems that this nature in the lie is a sine qua non condition to become vice president with Mr. Feijóo. And certainly, in the matter of lies it is difficult to overcome, because the PP promised in 2020 the same transfers of competences as in 2009 after not achieving any in eleven years. And so, in each election, a pack of lies, and Mr. Feijóo's government now shows itself, it seems, in support of asking for transfers to Madrid, when in Rajoy's seven years his disinterest on the subject was total and absolute as I said. Because you -- and I'm done -- are not interested in self-government, but in confrontation, as shown by the amendment that I'm not going to qualify because it's an unqualifying pastiche and obviously we're not going to accept it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u102	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Yes, Mr. Puy, why do you ask for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u103	Yes, in Article 76.3. Mr. Arunguena, with whom I personally sympathize with the suffering of his family in the dictatorship, since he has us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u104	Excuse me a moment. It seems like a lie that you don't know the regulation, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling you... he asked... Excuse me a moment! He asked for the article, asked for the word on the basis of Article 76.3. He asked for it, Mr. Puy, which you understand is that when the dignity of a group may be at an injured moment, and that's why I just granted it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] No, I'm sorry, that's what there is. Mr. Puy, you are on your shift according to article 76.3
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u105	I begin again, once again, by solidarity in the name of the People's Group with Mr. Arangüena and his family because of the suffering caused by the Frankish repression that affected his father and his grandfather, and we certainly deplore that fact. Having said this, in his speech he pronounced qualifications of our party that we cannot admit under any concept. And so I'd ask him to withdraw the qualifications he said the People's Party is a corrupt party, an indecent party and all that he said of a patch and a sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u106	Mr. Orange. Give a voice to Mr. Aranguena's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u107	First of all, Mr Puy began to speak without quoting the article of the Rules of Procedure that enabled him to do so. And secondly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u108	Excuse me, please! I've already told Mr. Orange that you mentioned the article. Maybe you didn't hear it, but we're all human, Mrs. Paula Prado, and we can all be wrong. Maybe you didn't listen, but I'm telling you what you said. It's already clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u109	He didn't explain why he was asking for it, the article quoted him, of course, but he didn't explain why. Because, if I may, Mr President, I did not disqualify the People's Parliamentary Group, I have made a series of considerations here about certain trajectories and have made a series of considerations on certain issues which I consider to be lies or have made a consideration of a fascist crop stock, but I have not accused you of being fascist or anything like it. And, therefore, I will not withdraw any of my words. By the way, I must also say, since I thank Mr. Puy's words about my family. My family did not suffer especially in franchise, they suffered much more than many other families. I simply say that I come from a certain tradition and as Mr. Pazos calls me Orange Smith because I am obliged to tell him that I do not seem right in an polite and reasonable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u110	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena, for your words. But he made a specific request to withdraw something that could bother a group. You take that off? Don't take it off. Put me in a weaver of having to call him in order. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It could be... a moment, sorry! Put me in that weaver, I have to see how I solve it. Forgive yourselves, let them think, let us think a little. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Rodil, please, you have a shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u111	I'm asking, on the basis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u112	Based on what article?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u113	... on the basis of the article that authorizes us, allows and guarantees compliance with the regulation at any time and to ask which article is collected that a request for allusions, or article 76.3 derives from a replica and opens a debate, because on many occasions our group has also been given disqualifications, references that make in addition, or question the dignity of our group and our organization, and it does not open here, as we have just seen, a debate. We are asking for compliance with the Rules of Procedure to be fair and also fair when distributing the words on the basis of the various articles referred to in the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u114	We have a little common sense. Let's see, Article 76.3, I'll read, I'll read the regulation. "When the allusion affects the decor and dignity of the parliamentary group, the president may grant to one of them the use of the word, at the same time and the conditions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2." It's a time equivalent to three minutes. I gave the floor to the spokesperson for the parliamentary group, and he, on the basis of that word I gave him, makes a request to you, and that's why I am sending that request to you. I am at all times observing the regulation. What I ask you, please, is that we have a little common sense about how we use vocabularies that can hurt a group. Otherwise, in any case they will always put the Presidency under stress, which, well, sometimes is interesting, but I don't think it's the fundamental reason why we're in this plenary, which is to cause tension to the President. If you think that's the fundamental goal, that's good. [[Laughter]] So... no, we're not going to turn off, and because nothing's turned on here. [[Murmurs.]] Then we'll leave the thing quietly, and we'll... [[Shut up and let's go.]] Yes, Mr. Puy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u115	Since Mr. Arangüena has not responded to our request, I ask the Presidency, without the intention of causing further tensions, to examine the statement made by Mr. Arangüena and to judge is affecting the decorum of the group and, therefore, of the House, and therefore it is appropriate to withdraw it from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u116	Well, sorry. Well, I do, let's see Sorry, but please. Well, I've already said the other day that I could observe at any time. [[Protests.]] Please, Mr. Orange, sit down for now, because not yet... but wait. At all times I have the ability to review what is said, I just haven't been in the whole debate, so I have to be consistent, let's review. Let's review exactly what's said there and let me, before you make a decision, check it out. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, what's turned out here, let's see, because this group feels that it has been paying attention to its dignity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's go check it out. [[Protests.]] Well, we're going to vote. I am closing this debate. No, I'm closing this debate. I am closing this debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Aranguena, that's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's go check on what I've read. [[Murmurs.]] Please. Let's vote. The debate is over. Let's vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals We start by voting the non-law proposition... I understand it, this is also in charge, so we have to take this quietly, and I seek to take it calmly, and therefore I ask everyone to have the respect they should have in all groups. But we're going to be quiet and quiet, which is good for us all, eh!, for the sake of democracy too. We voted for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, on the initiative of Don Teresa Egerique. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, on the initiative of Ms Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on the increase of fishing resources at sea. There's a transaction that was not accepted apparently. We vote. -- These think it's so easy to solve, but matters have to be scrapped. - Easy, easy, easy, easy, easy. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u117	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández. We do not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members, on the design of a research career by the German Government The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u118	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera. I might as well have jumped one. It's possible. Then I have to go back to 3. We then voted to the 3rd Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Voting of the Proposal in the Law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the beaches of the autonomous motorways AG-55, The Coruña-Carballo, and AG-57, Puxeiros-Val Minor The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u119	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera. That transaction is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the Proposal in the law of G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Ms. María Corina Porro Martínez and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government regarding the pending projects with the city of Vigo, as well as on the legal texts and the measures that prejudice it The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 31. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u120	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonzo. The amendment of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonzo and two other Members, on the impulse by the Government of Greece of the actions necessary to achieve that Repsol renounces the application of the announced ERA The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u121	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo Arangéna Fernández. I wasn't in the debate, I don't know if you accepted the amendments. No, no, no, no. We therefore vote. Vote of the Proposal in the Law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Fr. Pablo Arangüena Fernández, and Ms. Paloma Castro Rey, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the assumption of new competences by the Autonomous Community of Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u122	I'm going to read you an institutional statement that brings the groups to me, and that says, "The Galician Parliament, in the face of the difficult humanitarian situation in the refugee camps of Sahara, wishes to express its support and solidarity to the people of Sahara and their legitimate representative, the Police Front, in accordance with the principles set out in the Charter of the United Nations, and in the resolution adopted by the General Assembly and the United Nations Security Council. In the face of the current situation of armed conflict, we appeal to the responsibility of the parties to accelerate the negotiating process and find a peaceful solution to the conflict that respects the rights and freedoms of the Saharan people. We consider it essential that the United Nations, through its Secretary-General, appoint a special envoy or representative for Western Sahara, with full democratic guarantees and with regard to the human rights of the Saharan population. We remind the Spanish Government that it must take care of its obligations, as a administering power, defending the international agreements and human rights of the people of Saharan, demanding, in the midst of international forums and organizations, compliance with international agreements and the release of Saharan activists who remain illegally in Moroccan prisons. We call for the adoption of the political and diplomatic actions necessary by the Spanish Government and the European Union, to require the Kingdom of Morocco to respect the human and democratic rights of the Saharan people, fulfilling the commitments made to the United Nations mission for the referendum in Western Sahara MINURSO. We urge the International Committee of the Red Cross to assume its responsibilities to the events taking place in Western Sahara, as both parties in conflict are signatories to the Geneva Convention. And, finally, we urge the German and Spanish Government to intensify humanitarian aid and cooperation with the Saharan population, which resists in subhuman conditions in refugee camps, thus helping to alleviate the extreme living conditions of its inhabitants and to meet their food, education and housing needs. In a very special way, we would like to request that all necessary actions be carried out to provide vaccines against the Saharan people, as an essential element to prevent uncontrolled expansion of the disease, of unpredictable consequences in the context of the health precariousness existing in refugee camps." [[It is approved by consent.]] That's what the institutional statement says, and thank you very much for everything. [[Applause]] Agenda Development Changer And now we're still on the agenda. There are a few changes in the agenda, which I think you know. Question by Mercedes Queixas Zas, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assumption by the Greek Government of the commitment to dialogue with society with a view to initiating and fulfilling the actions required by the Council of Europe to comply with the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages before 1 August 2023.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u123	Whenever you want, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u124	Congratulations, Mr. President. In December 2019, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe issued the new periodic report warning of the failure to comply with the agreement signed by the Spanish State with the European Charter of Regional and Minorized Languages. In that report, the shortcomings in the language and educational policy of the Galician Union were reiterated, which were seriously compromising the progressive progress of the normalization of Greek and consequently the fulfilment of the Law on Linguistic Standardization. In that report, the Committee of Ministers warned -- once again, we insist -- on the worrying decrease of spokespersons, the breakdown of intergenerational transmission of the Greek, as well as its "insufficient" presence in teaching, for its reversal, it proposes to eliminate limitations to teaching in Greek that regulates the current decree of plurilingualism. Recently, the Government of the State has made public its response to the Council of Europe requirements in a report in which it denies limitations on teaching in Greek in Galicia -- as has been verified by the Committee of Ministers -- and affirms the success of the Greek multilingual model, supporting -- it says -- in the assessments of the Greek Government. In the BNG repeatedly sued to the Government to make public the results of the reports, of the annual assessments to which the additional provision of the amended decree requires, but the People's Party has never come up with any own assessment, so we continue to ignore what assessments were given by the Government of the United States to the Spanish Government. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has now published a new mid-term assessment report, which once again indicates the shortcomings already regretted and calls for reporting on actions taken to comply with the international treaty before 1 August 2023. At the same time, since the socio-educational community in Galicia, a new, dialogueal and consensus-based proposal for the normalization of education in Galicia is being offered to the groups of this House in the past election campaign. At the BNG we are asking the Bureau of the Committee on Education and Culture for the presence of a representative of these pleral groups who sign the above proposal, to explain it, to account for it in this Parliament as the House of Representatives of the Greek people. The only response at the BNG we achieved by the People's Party up to five times was its continued veto. For all this, we put in this plenary the following question to the Government: Is the Government of the Union included in dialogue with the Greek society with the aim of meeting the requirements reiterated by the Council of Europe to change educational linguistic policy and comply with the international treaty before 1 August 2023? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, we are talking about political training and government. I have to say yes, we talk to Galicia every day. They really understand us because they support us. I think there's constant dialogue and that's because we live in a Galician that is a tolerant Galician, that is a multilingual Galician, that is an inclusive Galician, that we all have a great appreciation for Greek. But, well, you ask for dialogue but it gives the feeling that it's a little called dialogue, according to your vision, because you talk about dialogue but you start by talking about that you have to override a decree to get started. Well, listen, putting on a series of lines that certainly make it a call dialogue. Just like when you say you have just presented a proposal for the normalization of teaching in Galicia and put it as a line that is consensual, supported around the world, when it's not true, there are many educational unions that have not supported it, and I would say it's more partial. Because even what you say and what you think to some extent would break one of the great consensus we had in terms of linguistics in Galicia, which is the very law of linguistic normalization. I think that's a very curious way to ask for dialogue. In any case, you made a reference to the Central Government, to a report that sent the Central Government, which, by the way, as you know -- because you support it -- is the Socialist Party. What does this report tell us about the English language model? For the truth is that the proposals that move you to Europe because I believe that they are positive. The Government of the State, of the Socialist Party, says that in Galicia there is a completely bilingual education system, we defend it; we also see that it is defended in this case by the Socialist Party -- its partners -- always in all institutions where they can. And it also says this report that there are no limitations on the teaching of Greek in Galicia, being the pursuit of a bilingual education system. I think that's what we're doing here, we have -- as you know -- a model of our own, a model based on the balance of languages, which is based on the elaboration within each center of a language plan. And I think this ultimately gives us full skills in English and gives us full competences between the Greek and the Spanish. In Galicia language is not a problem, it is an example of coexistence. And actually, the results are what they tell us, that the English language continues, has and continues to have the highest competition rates in all autonomous communities with co-official languages. That data is an official data, it's a data that is hardly questionable. And of course, it also tells us that we have the best levels of knowledge and skills -- understanding, speaking, reading and writing -- compared in both languages to the rest of the bilingual autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u127	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u128	...with which I believe that dialogue, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u129	Thank you. You've finished your shift. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. He's got another shift later. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica. Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u130	To mention the word consensus in conjunction with the current decree of multilingualism is absolutely incompatible, Counsellor, because the only consensus they have achieved was that of the whole society against its unilateral decision to approve and implement it. [[Applause]] With lies you can get too far, Counselor, but the truth is you can't go back. The way of the People's Party on linguistic policy, unfortunately to the Galician society, was born of a denialist lie twelve years ago; lies have turned around and lies are without return. Please abandon once and for all indifference to the so dangerous decline of our language. We continue to ignore what these reports have been sent to the State by the Council of Europe to respond to the orders of the Council of Europe. I myself have asked for them under Article 9 of the Rules of this House, and you -- the Government -- have not facilitated them, as I have not been given any of the documentation that I have requested. A new challenge to that invisible transparency that you practice. [[Applause]] They move and move here now with their words, Mr. Counselor, from the Greek people about what is their spine, which is the language. They deny their statutory possibilities, they violate the agreements of an international treaty. And here we also have to say that it seems that the consent of the Socialist Government, which, as you can see, does not contradict reports and evaluations, those supposedly sent by the United Nations. They abandon the negationism to which they have been subjected since they rule, respect international agreements, listen -- yes -- the Greek society, dialogue with it because they have an alternative of the future that they are willing to speak, sharing for the future of Greek. They comply with Article 5 of the Statute of Autonomy, which is now celebrating on its 40th anniversary, which makes them responsible as unique agents to promote the use of Greek in all life plans and provide the means necessary to facilitate their knowledge. Yeah, that knowledge that's not guaranteed and that's now that it's finally evaluated in the copy we've just met, in the result of the evaluation study...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u132	...of bilingual competition in the English and Spanish languages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u133	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u134	...to finish the student.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u135	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Queixas Zas utters words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Complaints, it's over... No, your time is up. [[Mrs. Queixas Zas utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Queixas Zas utters words that are not perceived.]] No, no, please, your time is up. [[Applause]] Close the question. Councilman of Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u136	Madam President, neither this government nor this party deny what we are, we are Germans and we have two languages: one of our own and two officers. It's in the Statute that you didn't vote. But we are Greeks and we never give up what we are or what we identify ourselves, but we never try to play with the marked cards on the other hand. Because you're talking about consensus, talking about dialogue and talking about the whole of society, but at the end they're talking about only one part of that society, which coincides with you from the ideological perspective. That seems right to us, but don't try to confuse a part with everything. And, of course, you plant us that we talk about data and I want to talk about data. Data that, by the way, often denies BNG, talking about negationism. Let's put comparative data on other territories and evolutionary over time, I think it's important. Look, we know very little about the data in the PISA Report -- you won't deny the PISA Report --. What does the PISA report tell us? What is Galician community where the student speaks the two languages more easily? Tell me about the PISA report. We are also told by the PISA report that 96% of the students say they speak well or quite well, and that they can talk perfectly with other people; by the way, the autonomous community of Spain where we have the greatest ability to do so, far above other communities with their own language; that is why I say it is good to compare. This report also tells us, by the way, that young Greeks are the most tolerant of Spain; and much more tolerant than other bilingual autonomous communities, which, by the way, are in the last places. And I think that's very important: coexistence, tolerance and respect. Well, you're always a negationist, too. The data from the 2019 IGE, which give us a vision -- I've spatially spoken now temporarily -- what do these data tell us? That in the year 2019 the number of spokespersons increased. What do you tell us? It reinforces itself as a majority language. We're also told these reports from the IGE across Galicia -- not only from a specific part of Galicia -- that the Greek language has the highest competition rates in all autonomous communities with co-official languages. I think that's a given to be healthyly proud, because we also achieve it without any kind of confrontation, and without any kind of persecution to either of the two languages we have in Galicia. And what does this report tell us? That there was a reticence about the previous year when the survey was made, which was in 2015, a reputation from the perspective that they are talking about today -- at that time in 2019 -- more people in our autonomous community five years ago, especially in the areas of the family and among the younger ones. And I think that's fundamental data. And I'm talking about all Galicia, not from a specific part of Galicia, and with an official methodology, Mrs. Complaints. Anyway, look, Galicia has its own model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u137	It's over, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u138	...of the use of our languages that results...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u139	Thank you. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] We turn to point 5, interpelerations. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Ana Pontón Mondelo's appeal and eighteen other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the transfer of pending powers to Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u140	To formulate the plea, Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u141	Good morning, Mr. Rueda. I'm going to start my speech with a quote: "Because of the biparty, Galicia has no autonomic police or traffic skills. Galicia does not have its own police powers, the difference between what happens in Catalonia, Basque Country and even Navarre." Do you know who said this in the spring of 2009? Alfonso Rueda said it, which I think is you, didn't he? You said this -- I don't know if you're someone else -- in 2009. And he also said, "The bipartisan has only got 14 transfers of minor matters." The bipartite got 14 transfers in four years and you, zero transfers in 12 years. That's the difference, Mr. Rueda, there's the balance. [[Applause]] They should fall in shame, but they don't care, so they don't care. But let's go around because this subject has a lot of history, it has a lot of background. The first can be placed at the Board of Boards on October 8, 2009, in which he made that solemn statement Mr. Fexóo -- who spoke earlier to his companion Peace of his guessing skills; of course, here he didn't -- said, "We'll start the greater self-government phase of Galicia." In that board of directors, you presented a report requesting the transfer of 17 competencies, and they agreed -- I have here the press release -- urgently requesting the call of the Bilateral Transfer Commission. And at that time you asked for 7 transfers to be negotiated that were previously negotiated from the previous Government, specifically: museums, archives, libraries, scholarships to study, labour inspection, traffic and road safety; and 10 new ones that you added, which were: highways, AP-9 and AP-53, watersheds, coastal management, meteorology, marine research agencies, shipping of nautical-fishing titrations, fishing surveillance and ship security. Well, it's been 12 years since you declared urgent at that time, and we're all the same, we're not moving forward. And I told you yesterday that we didn't move forward, that we got worse, that we're worse, that we're left behind because other communities did take steps forward and we couldn't do it. And this is the responsibility of the Government of the Union, chaired by Mr. Fexóo and for you who have the powers of Vice-Presidentship, and therefore is responsible for negotiating those transfers. And the first question we want to ask you is that they have made these 12 years, why they have betrayed the agreements of this Parliament that there have been several agreements on this, and why they have also betrayed the agreements of the Board of Trustees. Do you guys feel proud of this bad balance? May Galicia be with Murcia, along with Murcia, the only community that hasn't gotten any transfer these 12 years? Are you proud of this balance, Mr. Rueda? But of course, you want to go through for a long time for what you're not, but they ended up taking off the mask and finally telling a truth. After lying many times they ended up telling a truth. It was in the generals' campaign of 2019 when in their government program they put on: We will approve a moratorium that will paralyze the transfer of competences to autonomous communities. This is April 2019. But the truth was late, because that moratorium had already been declared by Mr. Nuñez Fexóo in 2009, when he decided to veto, to trap the entire process of transfers that was under way. And it was clear to you, Mr. Married. Spain cannot transfer any more competences to the autonomous communities, this no longer lasts. The nation must be strengthened. And Mr. Fexóo who is a perfect replicator, said: Spain is not to make transfers to autonomous communities. This is the real ideological face of the People's Party, the most recalcitrant centralism. We thank him for his sincerity, for once saying a clear truth as they left written on the program and in these statements. And so we come to the famous agreement of January 23, 2019, which I have here written, which is clear. It was interpreted by the press all over the press in one direction: that we were asking for Galicia's match with Euskadi and Catalonia, because that's perfectly deduced from the agreement taken. But the first aspect that was proposed there was that the Government of the United States demanded the call from the Transfer Commission. What did you guys do to make that deal? To request a call from the Transfer Commission? To sue for the competences that were already demanded or in processing or agreed? To ask others that they have already obtained other autonomous communities, the ones they had the most? Because I suppose we'll want to match those who have the most, not those who have the least. Not Murcia. Your competitive model is Murcia's? Suppose we don't, we'll have to match those who have the most. And then came the investment agreement between the BNG and the January 2020 PSOE, which also speaks clearly: to move forward in strengthening the capacity of decision-making of the German self-government through the proposal to convene the Joint Committee on Transfers of the United States, first quarter of 2020, to schedule during this legislation, to schedule during this legislation -- take note -- the activation of the transfer of all the outstanding competences collected in the Statute, as well as of the competences which were the subject of consensus in the Greek Parliament. Are you going to execute, to ensure compliance with this agreement as well as the January 23, 2021 agreement? And here we are in a paradox, it turns out that the BNG since the opposition has to do government, it has to defend the interests of the country, it has to defend the transfer of competences because you certainly don't. You are characterized by incapacity, incompetence in this defense and incompetence. And the reality is that we did the job, put it in the tray we told him yesterday. What have you done to activate these proposals, to convene this joint commission? What is your schedule for this legislation? What are the priorities of the Government of the United Nations, the People's Party? What are their forecasts? What calendar? We already know at this point that they perfectly dominate the epistoll genre. Then they would also send a letter to the Vice President of the Central Government, we don't know what happened, but well, they sent a letter to Mr. Iceta, who has already answered, who will convene a meeting; but we want to know what they want to propose, what is the road map. Is this the agreement of the German Parliament on January 23, 2019? Is that the 2006 agreement on the 70 transfers? Is that the 2009 Meeting Agreement? What is your roadmap, Mr. Rueda? There are many issues open right now, many transfers that are already agreed upon in addition to recently in this Parliament. And we said we didn't move, we stayed behind. And the reality is, we're not playing in the first division, the division of historical nationalities. And I'm not going to tell you all the transfers that are currently negotiating e.g. Euskadi or Nafarroa. We want to know what your transfer schedule is. And do you not believe that this agenda should be negotiated in this Parliament? We'll make a proposal in that sense in the motion arising from this interpellation. You on this subject act with absolute lust, with galbana, with mistrust, and you know why? Because you don't believe in self-government. They don't want any more skills. You get to be a kind of expanded MP, you want a country or a bonsai region, in miniature. And if you take on these demands, it's because since nationalism this pressure is made, if you do this demand, if you do this work. And we'll still be demanding, we'll still be a baton hammer to beat, so that this moratorium decreed by the People's Party will end in the end. But we also want to make one thing clear to you, Mr. Rueda, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you know we don't deal with it. BNG wants to get over this boat, he wants a new political status for Galicia, a nation status. We want to build not Galicia now that they left us after franchise in 1981, but Galicia in 2050, Galicia in the future. The future is not written, in any case, the future has to write with the letters of science, research, innovation, digitization, artificial intelligence, ecology, feminism. That's Galicia that's already here, Galicia that comes, Galicia that we have to build, and BNG will certainly work everywhere to get it. Because we as BNG, as nationalists want more than we have, we want everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Bará, you started with a series of appointments, I know from other interventions your appointments [...], from then on to 14 transfers and I agree that, at last, what many of them did were competences, of course, not what they told us, and many of them the same effort to give more, but I didn't give 14 in any case, with which I 14 couldn't tell because you're telling a story that wasn't even so. They didn't get 14 transfers or much less. I'll talk about it. But look, what I'm going to tell you is that I'm going to try to transmit in this interpellation, because that's what we really feel, is that we take the topic of Galicia's self-government very seriously, with a different perspective. You're all about being a nation, the other is equal, and we want to be respected and have a strong self-government, with skills that can be exercised. That means they're funded and respect us in their exercise. This is the fundamental difference and that should be clear to all groups of this House. Yesterday when we talked about traffic competition, we saw a fight, one more between the Socialist Group and the BNG Group, demanding each other. And seeing the championship of one who is ruling in Madrid and the other who here wants us to be one nation, one or the other to see who is the most champion of self-government. And, Mr. Arunguena, today he returned again, I had the opportunity to see him at the end. He got nervous as he often does, and I got to the part of the insults, I don't know exactly what he said before, but I suppose he'd talk about that huge amount of competition that they're asking for and that then of course, if the Central Government is not willing or beginning to talk about it. And that's what I'm going to try to talk about between this first and the second. You've been arguing for a long time as we speak of Galician self-government and speak of Galician self-government is to talk about a real financing system that gives us just what we need, the return of the IVE -- we've seen what's happening now -- about the transfer of traffic yesterday. Well, they argue a lot between you, to see who's smarter in the auto-government photo of struggle, to see who's the most champion of self-government and who we're growing up in competitions. Of course, that's right, then it's time to prove it, and you actually sign a paper. You took out yesterday the topic of the role they signed, which they sold to us in a humiliating way -- I'm sorry to say -- because it was, what they said and what they wrote, and what they conveyed to us was that agreement which was said to be the Joint Transfer Commission, indeed, the Galician State-Junta for activation and programming in the legislation of the transfer of all the pending competences collected in the Galician Autonomy Statute, as well as those competences that have been the object of consensus in the Greek Parliament, that would change Galician history. You've been getting what the People's Party had not achieved in half an hour in so many years of government in this historic community. And all that they told us, all that they proclaimed, they left, yes, the part of the AP-9 transfer, had its own section, because it was so important that it was no longer in the first 3 months, it was in the first half hour. That's all they said, and that's all they told us, and that's all we have to talk about when we talk about self-government. After all, yesterday he explained to us that he didn't activate because there was a pandemic. Then, of course, they began to justify the unjustifiable. You have to explain why a year and a half later that commission was going to be activated in 3 months and that you managed to bend the government's hand in exchange for a support that was decisive or so said the two parties that signed that agreement, because it was almost a year and a half later and there was nothing. So, of course, you start saying, of course, that there was a pandemic, that nothing could be done. And that we focused on the ball and you just had to push it. A porter who had no gain, no desire, we're already seeing him, that he let himself be put on that goal and that at the end he soon took your hair and tried to take it also to Galician Union and through Galician Union to all the Greeks and Greeks, Mr Bará. You say that this joint transfer commission didn't meet, because there was a pandemic. And of course, there was the very busy central government, that central government that held with the Galician board more than 300 video conferences on all kinds of matters. With 20, 25, 30, especially when we were in the middle of the first phase, when Mr. Sánchez told us that we had won the virus and, therefore, we no longer had to worry, we had to talk about other things, when we went back to the second wave, to the third... we were never called for anything that had to do with this Transfer Commission. Never anything and you're sorry, and you're all right. And that's understandable, so there's no need to criticize him. How are you going to worry about these things? How do you want us to take it seriously when we heard everyone say yesterday that it's logical not to talk about transfers? It's logical that the government didn't have a minute to talk about all this. You have to take Galician self-government seriously, Mr Bará, I really tell you, you have to take it seriously. This is not a matter of proclamations, propaganda, racking, 30, 40, 70, to the extent of the Statute. You're always with numbers and then with nothing else. Look, it's not something to wear without anything behind it. You've had a lot of work already. I was in 2009 and I was in the years of opposition when you ruled in the Bipartite. You were also part of the government. How many things we've been told. I came here, that story you told us yesterday, which you told us today, already told us Mr. Quintana with the same. He was the champion of self-government, the champion of transfers. He'd be back to Galicia's story, as he did, he was bending his hand in exchange for his support -- the support was true, Mr. Zapatero -- they were bending his arm, and they were getting Galicia to grow into great competitions. Well, I'm sorry to tell you most of the skills were minor competences. And most of those who told us they were closed, then we arrived, we claimed them, because I remind you that we all claimed them 10 more, and they told us that they said nothing about it, they started making excuses. There was nothing closed about everything they told us. All that story, all that story you told us as part of that government, which told us, then came the truth: that there was nothing, that there was no will of the Government of Mr. Zapatero. Nor was it later, and we said it as the Council of Galicia, that there were powers to be transferred and, of course, the Government of Mr. Zapatero, which, as you said, left everything closed, nor then the Government of Mr. Rajoy, nor, of course, the Government of Mr. Sánchez, were neither for the work. Hey! Of course, we are talking in this Parliament about competences. Of course, we approved a Galician trail with a lot of skills before the general election of the 19th so that those who had won it would have taken care of immediately. We didn't know anything at all, you went to the formal because there's nothing else left; no, you have to ask for it formally, is that when you send a letter there's a magic effect, and that the problem is that you, as you don't send the letter, so, look, we just sent it, specifically, Mr. Iceta, more than a month ago; yes, you objected to saying yes, and what?, as you were told, good faces, no bad word or good deed. Hey! Not those three months, you who measure the time so concrete and so short-term, because it is already consumed from Mr. Iceta's letter the third part of that term that you had and we know absolutely nothing. What did we know in the middle? A lot of things: that we go through a health law without talking to us first; that now we start to see that we were right Galicia and other autonomous communities when they said that they stole an important part of our funding... all these things that is also the respect and self-government of which you always run away, because it's all about a ranking to try to put on empty medals, because at the end there are no competences, there's nothing, Mr Bará. I mean, you didn't almost get anything in the bipartite, you did a lot of propaganda, because of course, you didn't expect to lose the election and you didn't expect us to see that all this was true. We call on the Commission to continue the transfer of powers. You know what we found, Mr. Bará, you know what we found? What I was saying before, many excuses, and, yes, an appeal, to the Cash Act, was transformed into the Joint Transfer Commission. Mr. Keys and Mr. Zarrías, who now have them very hidden in the Socialist Party for obvious reasons, and I understand that. But that's what we found, and so they had a lot of time; and when we said, "Hey! And the transfer of powers, all that they told us it was closed, all that we're claiming the 10 that we're asking for? No, no, there's nothing to say about that. There's nothing to say about that. And this is reality, this is the truth of all that work that you do so well and that becomes absolutely nothing. This is the reality of a year and a half after that Joint Transfer Commission that would open at three months and change Galicia's future. So, do it, really, really a favor, let's all do Galicia a favor, of course you too. We are going to demand, because that is self-government, respect, effectiveness and loyalty, because competences need to know what it is asked for, who is asked for and how it is asked for; and we have to know that the important thing is to get things, and not to make statistics, we demand respect and demand achievements, we do not demand statistics. You really like numbers, transfers, comparisons. I certainly don't want, as a member of the Government of Galicia, to compare myself with Catalonia, and much less. I know it's his model, but what they care about is the rankings, the empty rankings that don't lead to anything. Let's hear from the press that they present us with an appeal, learn from the press that today, for example, here is the Secretary of State of Security to talk about the security of Xacobeo without warning the Council of Galicia at all. We'll find out four months from Xacobeo without knowing what support the Central Government is going to give us. Know that we're forced to go to the courts to give us what's ours. All of this is disrespect and all of this is lack of respect for self-government, and in that we're going to work; then there's quite another sort of thing, but, if I may, they're not so important. We are going to ask, we only ask, to expect them to listen to us and to activate the transfer of competences. We prioritize what we think is important, we'll see what happens to us. Look, while there's an absolutely submissive Socialist Party here, it's the perfect storm...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u145	...the central government -- I'm finished Mr. President -- you know perfectly well that here the Socialist Party will never put anything in his face and, if you see that you're still engaged in empty rankings, propaganda and in apologizing the inexcusable and that nothing happens, then, of course, all those who don't want Galicia's self-government to grow up. We want self-government to grow and we want it to grow from respect and we're going to go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u146	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica round, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u147	Mr. Rueda, you said you were really defending self-government, are you serious? Are you serious? You who have been unable in 12 years to convene, to request the call of the Joint Transfer Commission. Is this serious? You guys who in twelve years haven't achieved a single competition for Galicia, is that serious, is that your defence would be self-government? This is a real fiasco, Mr. Rueda, it's a real disaster, a disaster, that's pure incompetence, pure incompetence what you've done these 12 years. [[Applause]] And you're talking about traffic and road safety, that you had it in that top priority statement of the year 2009 that you took. And what have they done these years? If you here vote in yellow, you vote abstention, because you don't really believe in this competition, you don't believe; nor do you believe in the Welsh police, we've seen it over the years. There's a German police law and you didn't want to develop it. We'll have to be us since the opposition forced them to develop it and create it as well, to assume the transfer of traffic and road safety. And I'm glad you're talking about the investment agreement, because that's what it shows in the end is that you can't help it, it's because if you look at the leagues, it's uncomfortable. Indeed, that point 1 says that we have to call the Joint Commission, but it is not the BNG who has to call it, you can call it the Central Government, or you may ask the Government of the Union, have you asked for it since January 2020? or do we also have to do the work of calling for the Joint Transfer Commission. And, of course, I'm glad you told me about AP-9. In fact, BNG has put a specific point in that agreement on AP-9, because it's a matter of maximum transcendence for this country, it's a matter of maximum outrage for this country, and we have to end this harassment, so we put a specific point, where we were talking about the transfer of competition, too, and the lowering of fees. And thanks to that, at that point, at that agreement, at that demand, of an investment agreement, which was not a legislative agreement, I remind you that it was an agreement also to prevent Gürtell's party from continuing to rule at that time, because thanks to that agreement, we are talking today about reductions in the rates of AP-9, and we want them to be applied as soon as possible. This is what we're talking about, Mr. Rueda, is about the balance of the People's Party, what did you get? What balance do you guys present? You talk about excuses, oh!, excuses, words, words... You're the ones that bring you here: they didn't listen to us at the PSOE, when they were in Madrid ruling, Mr. Zarrías and Mr. Chaves came from us. But then they came and took them as serene chicken, Mr. Rajoy's government, they've been ruling for six years. [[Applause]] It's just that it's humiliating. What you said here is absolutely humiliating, because in those years there were 16 transfers to seven communities, while you treated them as a falpudo their own party in Madrid. How can you come here to say that, Mr. Rueda? You didn't defend Galicia's interests, Galicia's competences, you didn't claim anything, you acted like a Government in this matter, we can talk about many more, completely useless and incapable. And, look, you say we're in the middle of a pandemic, it can actually make a lot of things difficult, but in recent years, negotiations are under way, already for years, since Mr. Rajoy was in charge, and progress in transfers with Euskadi, I'm not going to remind you here of what happened with A-68, a highway that has been transferred; with Nafarroa, which is currently negotiating traffic transfer and road safety; with Andalusia, which has already achieved the transfer of Coasts long ago, which we don't have, being so important to us the coast and the coast; with Canaryes, who is now also negotiating the transfers of Coasts... and we are remaining behind, Mr. Rueda, and that is the responsibility of the People's Party, the People's Party, the People's Party's Government of the People's Party that they don't claim. [[Applause]] Excuse me, excuse me, that's what you brought us here. So, finally, you want a small country, a protected country, a nice country or, even worse, a eucalyptus country. And we want a big country, a strong country, a full country, a oak country. And that's why we're going to fight to get all the pending transfers to get to the maximum competitive ceiling, but we want to go further. Because, as we said,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u149	...we want to trace the future of Galicia in the 21st century, Galicia in the 2050s. And that future has to be written today's generations, it can't be a future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u150	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u151	...traced, written by generations and norms, by corsets inherited from franchiseism in 1981. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u152	Mr. Rueda Valenzuela, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Bará, you started your reply by saying, of course, that as I dare to say that the Government of Galician Union, the People's Party, I suppose you would also be thinking about it, that we speak of self-government seriously. That's the big problem, is that you, among many other absolute truths, believe in the only possession, that's one of them. So, here in self-government you can only speak, and therefore, if you do something, you do it and if we do it ourselves and you can't, the fault is always ours, it's not the other way, which is the one you have to give in to skills that we ask for, because, of course, as we can't really talk about these things, if there is no result, it's also our fault. And so we're on that wheel that ultimately leads to no solution. I see that you were unable to make any reply to something which is a truth like a house, they didn't get anything at the time of the bipartite, they didn't get anything. That must be seen, if we go to the hemerotheque, sometimes that Mr. Quintana came and, I insist, that you were in that Government, saying that this was the end, that we were emptying the State of competences and that it was a historic legislation for the self-government of Galicia. Nothing at all; minor competences in its vast majority, labored to seem more and nothing advanced with regard to others. And this is what there was, and it wouldn't be, like you can say we didn't ask in twelve years, ever? We ask a lot of times, you in Parliament say to us, "Hey! that everything is done, ahead; we went there, we asked for 10 more and we were told that nothing, many times, in this Parliament, in writing, publicly, nothing at all. Man, so let's just say that we didn't ask for anything and that the whole story goes back when you make that historic deal of what, look, you're right, we're talking about you, the problem is that you don't talk about anyone else, what they told us was going to be the bomb and that you were going to change the story of Galicia and what you had to see was what they got. Of course, neither does the Socialist Party ever speak here, nor does it surprise me, because to see how a government washes its face that absolutely passes from this, nor does it speak to anyone else. And so, maybe that means, honestly, I know it bothers you very much to tell him, but every day that happens and every month it proves to be true, time gives us the reason, never said better about this, is that they took their hair, absolutely. And, look, Mr. Iceta, I don't know, I hope you know, I have my doubts, I don't even know that there's this agreement signed with votes, to move forward in three months that everything had been convened and that everything had been planned and that we had that fantastic level of self-government that you said you had achieved. And of course they made a special paragraph for AP-9. First I'm going to tell you something that really bothers you, is that Mr. Feijóo got a lot more in the morning than you said they were getting in that historic agreement. And that's the way it is, and that's the way it is. [[Applause]] And I can tell you that nothing of what Mr. Feijóo managed by speaking faithfully, as we want to speak to the central government, has anything to do with what he was signed with you, and there was no reference. It's just that I doubt they really take it into account and keep it in their thoughts. There they show a lack of loyalty and a lack of realization and, if you mean, falsehood sometimes when signing agreements that are not intended to be fulfilled. And that's what they did to you, absolutely. And, therefore, we already know what's on us, which is to fight to grow in self-government. And I'm telling you again, self-government is to be respected, it's to give us the funding we need to be able to exercise our powers, those we aspire to, but also those we have. And I suppose, Mr Bará, that you will agree, that before we ask for new competences, that we will certainly ask for them, what we will have to ask for is funding for those we already have. It's not normal for us to be stolen money from the central government to give it to other autonomous communities that clearly move faster, but that's what Mr. Sánchez's Government is all about, giving more to those who support it in the government, is their only goal. And, therefore, to give more to one, you'll have to take more from others. Who's he paying for? Galicia, with its complicity, says it's our fault, not who had to give us things and is not giving them. It is that it is impossible, Mr Bará, so it is impossible, with that complicity, with that statu quo who knows the central government that has in Galicia, with a party that is satisfied with a role he has signed, wet paper is not worth nothing, and that it matters to put medals in rankings without contents, and with a Socialist Party branch here, that will legitimate anything and that will look elsewhere when they are every day making real outrages to the Government of Galicia, through the Government of the United States of Galicia, to the Galician, so we will go. So, I don't see much future for this, we're definitely going to try. Look, I was wondering what competition agenda we're going to consider, which way we're going to go. In the letter to Mr. Iceta we already told him. First, let us agree on the Health Law which we have resorted to without notice and, of course, showing an absolutely unequal treatment with other autonomous communities, I suppose that it will also agree that it is to grow in self-government with regard to the own competences given us by the Statute of Autonomy of Galicia. And second and fundamental, we've already prioritized AP-9 and public maritime-terrestrial domain. You, in addition, have done something embarrassing there, they want to save some things. We want to save everything, all the economic activity that is in the public domain in Galicia we want to save it. Not a part, as you want to do, condemning the rest, and not just the Ence, but many others. We want to save all economic activity. So we're going to ask for that, and I hope you have your support, and I hope all this anger that gives you to say that we don't do anything, as soon as the negotiations of everything we're doing start, you support it, and you don't go back with your partners, here in so many things looking elsewhere, because so Galicia doesn't grow up and of course it doesn't defend Galicia, and we certainly don't want to defend it like this. That's probably why we've been 12 years with the majority support of the Greeks and you're still trying to put on medals that really don't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the impact of Covid-19 on hospitals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u155	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u156	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, what can happen in a society, or more specifically in a political sector, when we normalize certain issues that we have already raised years ago, how to question the democratic system? A lot of people wonder why Vox didn't enter Galicia, and the answer was given to President Feijóo and Baltar, asking for Rafael Rodríguez Villarino's head, democratically elected to the polls by citizenship in Ourense. It's a serious mistake, ladies of the People's Party, to rectify, it's never too late to take the right course. Look at the world of sport, good sportsmen are humble in victory and defeat. Accept those who won the elections in Ourense, be humble, and do not insist on deleting it from the map, because who decides is citizenship. I want to start by remembering the 2,384 people killed by Covid, of whom 790 died in senior homes, and of course their families. But we also remember those people who suffered another type of disease without diagnosis or treatment in time and form, becoming secondary victims of Covid. Also remember the older people in residences that didn't or didn't get infected, but they're left with a wound in the soul for living a nightmare that will remain in the memory of their retinas forever. The empowered silent generation, or those of the postwar children, those people who were born between about 1930 and 1948, that generation that raised the country, with an education based on the culture of effort, humility and sacrifice that they needed to overcome very hard moments, without any other option or possibility of protest. This generation looked into the eyes of war, face to face, with the eyes of children. This generation could perfectly explain to us what those Spanish children and children of their generation lived, who had to flee the war on a railway alone, without a father, no mother, no family to become in other countries into unaccompanied minors, or what is the same MENA, about which you, lords of the People's Party, have put in institutions, to cast hatred. And all our condemnation, of course, to cast hatred upon the minors; they are children who are defenseless and those we have to help. Solidarity. The virus has broken with the older ones, with this generation that brought the country out, that generation that helped their parents, who created their children to help them raise their grandchildren. A humble, hardworking and strong generation to face what was set before them. Today, immersed in the vaccination process, we are aware that the arrival of vaccines was really what managed to curb the decay of the virus, which came late with respect to other autonomous communities, but still nearly 800 people died in homes of older people because of Covid. The Socialist Group's proposal from the outset was clear: we call for a protocol for the evacuation of all positive people in the homes of older people. Why? Because, in line with what specialists asked for in the subject matter, such as the Galician Society of Jericho, and based on a number of studies, it was demonstrated that the impact of contaminations and abrupts as they did in Galicia was significantly reduced by immediate evacuation of all positives in time to an intermediate hospital or residence, which for that were. They did not accept this proposal, totally logical and evaluative, and the contagions multiplied as the quality of life of the negatives worsened significantly to the detriment of their cognitive, physical and mental health after the harsh restrictions derived from living with positive ones. We know Covid-19 today, but what happens if another virus occurs in the immediate future or not? We have to prepare for prevention, because it is a matter of public health. Therefore, from the Socialist Group we consider it necessary to develop a preventive and rigorous protocol to infectious-communicable diseases in residential care centres for older people. Let us advance and prepare ourselves; for this, it is necessary to prepare a rigorous and transparent report previously by the Government of Galicia that investigates the situation during the pandemic in residential care centres in Galicia. On 13 March 2020, the President of Spain, Pedro Sánchez, announced the state of alarm and after that declared the health emergency in Galicia. But the oldest residences in Galicia had already dragged numerous irregularities already known by the current government that is currently in Galicia at the early stage. Years before, the collective of residents themselves communicated through numerous writings these facts, as well as the famous report of the 2018 Board of Auditors, which highlighted how, for example, they increased the number of private residential squares, while the number of inspections decreased. But we also wonder, because if you talk a lot about private residences, but you ask yourself, why don't you cover the total number of squares in the Greek public residences?, with the waiting list we have, Counsellor. What is the percentage of occupation in public residential centers? Of all this, he is aware of the highest responsibility for social policy in Galicia -- who was already counsellor in the previous legislation, and also previously held the position of CEO of Majors --. Why have no action been taken will have to explain it to you, Counselor? What is clear is that there is a key to the supervision of residences through inspection, and we have already requested it from the Socialist Party on numerous occasions; it is necessary to increase the number of inspection technicians from the Social Policy Council. Why? Because we are the second autonomous community with fewer inspectors from all over Spain, in particular only 7 inspectors for the supervision of -- pay attention! -- 264 residences throughout Galicia, as journalist Manuel Rico pointed out in his book on residency research. It's urgent to significantly increase the inspection staff, because the inspection technical team, made up of professionals, is swallowing a brown that doesn't belong to them, resulting from the lack of political decisions by a German government that leads to overwhelming labor and emotional pressure in many cases. The president of Galicia, Feijóo, dares himself to come here to this House today to demagogy in low silence, on questioning the professionals themselves, who claimed in addition to 300 inspections in full pandemic, when in 2011 no pandemic was made 418. How is that possible? So, with data on the table, who's valuing professionals and who's not? We understand that, with the data on the table, who is really questioning, because the words are words but the facts are what mark the predisposition to value the professionals themselves, who is questioning the professionals is the German Government itself. Rectify and assume decision-making that is at the expense of the quality of the professionals themselves. Counsellor, the citizenship I have the honour to represent is as worthy as you represent. Why, after requesting Covid's data in residences of the largest centre to centre, by all possible mechanisms, in writing, in plenary, in the Commission, by Article 9, are not provided? The senior residences were religiously contributing the data to the Government of Greece daily because that's what the Government of Greece had to do, so the data is in their possession. Why don't you hand them over? Why are they hiding them? Why do they have in their power that data and they don't deliver it when it's their duty? They are failing to comply with the democratic obligation that must feed on the information requested to exercise duly the supervision that the Greek citizenship has entrusted to us in the role of opposition. Since last year we've been asking for information, to which we have a right, and which they're censoring by a German government that we don't understand why we don't give this information and, of course, they don't understand it by the Greek citizenship either. And so they reflected it even by the media themselves, which reported how the Union and the PP denied that Parliament knows how many people died for Covid in each residence. We want this information so we can do our job, Counselor. [[Applause]] As for the new model of residences, why so much secrecy, Counsellor? why haven't you come forward yet? why in other autonomous communities have already regulated a model in their own regulations towards the new construction of residences and not here yet, when we're talking about the construction of new residences? We must already have a serious and strict model to be able to carry out these new residences on the basis of that new regulation that we need so much. The dignity of older people remains at stake when children are made decisions on their own. It can't be that they didn't have the right to leave or enter their center, as the president of the Galician Society of Jericho himself reported, when all the older people were already immunized in the residence. Therefore, it is urgent, Counsellor, to develop a preventive protocol, specific for infectious-communicable diseases in the residential context, primacy of evacuation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u157	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u158	...from all positive to intermediate and hospital centers, according to the clinical criteria. I'm done, Mr. President. To develop a study that investigates the situation during the Covid pandemic in the residential context; to provide urgently the data and figures that we request and that we have the right to them as representatives of citizenship, of deaths by Covid broken down by residential center; and, of course, transparency and information regarding the new residential model. Let us work, Counselor. We need to significantly increase inspection teams. Listen, let us contribute to improve people's lives in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u159	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. You have another shift later. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ortega, very good days. Madam, the truth is that I thought we came here today to talk about residences, and I see that you prefer today to talk about Mr Villarino, about sport, about Vox and not know how many other things, but the truth is that, with regard to this House and with regard to the Greeks, I am going to focus on residences. I can't deny you either today that I've felt a certain wonder when I read the interpellation you're uttering to me. First question: if Junta is going to draft a protocol for the evacuation of all positive Covid-19 of the Greek residences. Answer: Since 1 month ago, the senior residences in Galicia have no positive cases of Covid-19. Zero positive Covid cases between users and zero positive cases between workers. [[Applause]] Second question of your interpellation: if Junta is going to come up with the data of Covid-19's contagions and deaths in the Welsh residences. Answer, Mrs Ortega, we've been over a year giving all this data daily to the public. Yes, Mrs Ortega, as you say, center the center, all the data was given to the public and that they are also published in every and every one of Galicia's media. [[Mrs. Ortega Otero speaks words that are not perceived.]] I think that's the answer to the 100 percent of the issues that you are bringing me today in your inquiry. But, however, as I think I still have some time left, I'd like to tell them some more. They hurt us all and each of the families who lost a loved one in the homes of older people in Galicia, but this pain does not prevent us from seeing reality. Galicia is the peninsula community where the oldest residences have better resisted the pandemic and this data is very clear. Deaths in residences account for 39% of the total; in Galicia 6 points less, 33%. In the Spanish ensemble, they unfortunately died about 10 percent of the people living in residences in Galicia less than half. Much less than in countries such as France, Austria, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Sweden, the United States or the Netherlands. And Galicia is also the peninsula community with lower mortality in residences, according to the data prepared by the Higher Council of Scientific Research, not suspected of bias or of being under the influence of the Galician Union. This extraordinary resistance is not the result of chance, but it is mainly due to the effort, commitment and strict compliance of the protocols and contingency plans by the residents workers, by the users, and also this compliance by all the family members, to whom I want to transfer once again our deep gratitude. The workers in the most difficult year of their lives gave the best of themselves, without but, without mitigating, to safeguard at all times the life and well-being of older people and people with disabilities. That's why they deserve all the recognition we can give them. It's true that Galicia -- like all of Spain, like all of Europe, like everyone else -- faced an unprecedented pandemic before the homes of older people were prepared to 100 percent, neither here nor anywhere else nor institution. And to help the contagion residences, the Galician Union was a pioneer in the set-up of integrated residences, where the most positive people with coronavirus received specialized attention. This pioneering decision was then reproduced by communities in which its Socialist Party has responsibilities of government; communities such as the Valencian, Cantabria and Basque Country, so we deduced that they would not work so badly. The conditions of derivation to these integrated residences, Madam, have always been those of doctors, strictly clinical criteria. Each case was analyzed individually. And I think the experts who came to the Reactivation Commission have already explained all these measures and these protocols and these procedures far better than I do. For health indication and also throughout the pandemic, some 600 people passed through the integrated residences of Galicia. For the residence of Baths of Molgas, Road Door, Cegadi or Good Day in Vigo. In these integrated residences heroism had its own names, such as that of Ana Belén, that of Raquel, that of Nestor, that of Tino, that of Nacho, that of Miguel, that of Chema, that of Xendi. Great health and socio-sanitary professionals who never hesitated to come where most needed were, at a time when the incognites exceeded the certainty. His dedication, like that of the whole sector -- and I speak of everything, of the public, of the private, of the social initiative -- all these workers well deserve today a unanimous applause from this whole House. [[Applause]] The truth is that I have just seen how the Members and the Members of the Socialist Party and how the Members and the Members of the Galician Nationalist Block do not applaud him by thanking him for the work of all these professions of Galician residences. The truth is that I feel sad and really disappointed, as these workers were standing by the cannon during this health pandemic, as these workers were up to Galicia, but I see that many Members and Members of this House are not up to the Greeks today. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u161	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u162	About the residence data, I think there's little to say that it wasn't said anymore. There's nothing but searching Google to find the data that the Galician Union has provided every day for more than a year to all the media. And the data is there, they're there in anyone's sight. They are in sight of any citizen of any part of the world who would like to consult them. But not all autonomic governments can say the same today. And once, Mrs. Ortega, who are already answered and also very extensively your questions, I think we can agree that now is also the time to look forward. It plays, of course, to learn from all the living, and it also does not contribute to spreading the shadow of doubt over a sector that honestly does not deserve it. We Greeks spend many sleepless nights thinking about residents, but for a month or so, fortunately, we haven't had any new contagions in senior homes. But both older and younger we can be a little calmer at the moment. Last December 27th began the vaccination campaign in residences and in just two months it was practically complete this vaccination and everyone had received the pinchazo, except for some new income or people who at first declined to vaccinate and then fortunately changed their mind. Today in Galicia 94.3% of residents are already vaccinated, 3 points above the national average. Today in Galicia residences we are talking about the future of this new model that we are working on and that we are moving forward with the collaboration of experts and that we are also looking forward to the collaboration of the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block. Today in Galicia, thanks to the success of vaccination in residences, these are the safest places. Today in Galicia the older people who live in residences are progressively recovering this placidity and their everyday life. And with them and their families I'm very glad and I want to convey to them that the Galician Union, as always, will be there at the foot of the cannon as since all this began. And it will always, always, always be with the most vulnerable people in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u163	Thank you very much, Counselor. On the replica round, you have the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u164	Thank you, President. Counselor, it seems like a lie that falls into such a demagogy. I beg you to apologize, not only to this House, to all Members and Members, but to apologize to professionals in the sector for repeatedly using them with cheap demagogy and for charging against the opposition in this sense when they do not receive professionals from the sector or their families, who this week have asked for their resignation, Mrs Fabiola García, for lying repeatedly; that is what the family members said. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u165	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u166	Counsellor, prepotence and coldness are not good advisers to run the Social Policy department in a community like Galicia. Why didn't the people who went through integrated residences, the total number of positives? Why? He didn't answer me, because they didn't move the total positive to integrated residences and hospitals. Why didn't you do it? Why didn't they cover all the squares of the integrated residences, Counselor? With all the experience you've had after years leading as advisor or CEO of Majors -- who has already passed various positions and always in the same sector -- at least it's compelling that we bring proposals to the House from the Socialist Party that vote against them and then take headlines with the so-called proposal as it is -- because the most normal thing, if you like the idea, is that you vote in favour, that you don't practice your own inconsistency and then you have to pass a blow like this week, that makes the Greek Plan for Undesired Soy -- the proposal, of course, of this House, of the Socialist Party's proposal -- and that in the photo they declare it to be a Soy Plan in accordance with the councils, of the Greek municipalities. And I ask you, Counsellor, what municipalities, what municipalities, the Cuenca? Because the Galician Municipal Federation knows nothing, has no idea what they presented two days ago, it's not familiar with the matter. Do you recognize that they didn't comment on Fegamp? Didn't they tell him? Well they have to talk to the municipalities; if not, we understand that it's just a scene and that what they're selling is pure marketing and that they're not worried about it. Finally, if they like a proposal, even if it's from the Socialist Party, they have humility and say yes, and let themselves be helped, because the times are not to sell smoke or marketing but to row all together and together for the good of the Greeks, Counsellor. [[Applause]] We're still waiting for the data required by our group. The Board called for every residence in Galicia a daily report of the Covid data, and we, the condition of the citizens' representatives and under the protection of the rules governing a democracy, of course, require that we be transferred from that data. That you respond and send us back to data from the Galician Union, which, as you know, is not data broken down downtown. Don't be silly, Counselor, because they're not trying to fool me, they're trying to fool the citizenship we represent. And it's not fair and it's your duty, that you're not an advisor to a private company, but an adviser to an autonomous public administration, your duty is to present the data when required. So do it right away. And, of course, he does not deny that the data are provided, because the media themselves have already said it: the Union and the People's Party refuse to let Parliament know how many people died for Covid in the central residences. Make them look because this can't be, it can't go on like this, and I think they're doing nothing and making use of the inappropriate and antidemocratic majority for not providing the data that requires the opposition itself. And, as the ultimate responsibility for social policies in Galicia with the competences in the area of senior residences before, during and after Covid, it is urgent to draw up a research report on what happened in the residences of the largest centre and centre, so that we can have the information, we can do our work as legitimate citizens and Members and Representatives. They don't censor any more information. On Monday the media published the following news, a delay in public residences in Vigo, in particular 550 days and alerted deviations from the place of origin of 150 kilometers. This is an example of what is happening in Vigo and the rest of Galician provinces and municipalities, Counselor. We're not to assume, we're to solve the deficiencies that's been dragging the residential model in Galicia for many years and that you're responsible as a advisor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u168	...as CEO and he didn't do anything. Why do they have public residences without covering the total number of squares and the lack it does at the moment have empty squares without covering in the administration's own residences? Why, Counselor? Now he'll come here and take advantage of it that I have no reply to blame the central government, which you have the powers, but surely that's what he does.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u170	Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u171	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u172	The Administration -- finished, president --...the Administration is aware of the situation we've been living since 2012. That's what the workers in the sector say, to those who don't talk, by the way. They speak, dialogue with the workers and all parts of the sector, empathize with reality to manage efficiently and stop using the workers to charge against the opposition politically, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the floor for the reply to Mrs. García Martínez, Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President and Madam. You were now talking to me about the Welsh Strategy against unwanted loneliness. By the way, the first autonomous community at the national level that will count on a serious strategy, dialogue and consensus with the third sector. A strategy that the Galician Union drew from the hands of the Galician social institutions. You say no? Have you been to the meetings? [[Murmurs.]] A strategy that the Galician Union has developed with the third sector, with the social entities, which are the ones that are there every day of the year at the foot of the cannon, attending and pampering the older people. These general lines of this strategy have been transferred to the Fegamp and then, once this strategy is presented, we will meet with the municipalities of Galicia to evaluate all the measures that are necessary to always care for and care for older people, either in a residential center, or in their own home, which is where most older people want to continue living. As for Mrs Ortega, to the transfers of older people who were positive in coronavirus, whether they were transfers to an integrated residence, whether they were transfers to a hospital, Mrs Ortega, the politicians don't decide, I don't decide, the health adviser, who is here today. The transfers of the most positive people in coronavirus tell us doctors, strict clinical criteria, strict medical criteria. They're the ones who decide whether an older person where he's best gonna be careful if he's in the residence, whether he's in an integrated residence or he's in a hospital. Mrs. Ortega, I'm going to say, public opinion knows more than anyone else and each of the infections of older people living in residences in Galicia. If not, explain to me why you got up every morning, read the paper and see where there were contagions. The media weren't going to call the door to all the residences to ask you, are there any positives today? And because the Galician Union is transparent and gives an unprecedented example to the Central Government, giving an example to the rest of the autonomous communities, it has always been transparent with each and every one of the people infected in the homes of older people in Galicia. I from the central government, Mrs. Ortega, had no intention of speaking today, and less can't speak of the central government with regard to the homes of older people, because the central government did not strike, the central government was disappeared throughout the entire health pandemic. Former President Pablo Iglesias neglected the homes of older people, we were the autonomous communities that we were there at the canon, taking care of the workers, caring for the older ones and supporting their families. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was Galicia that was there at the foot of the cannon, not its socialist government, nor the government of former president Pablo Iglesias. [[Applause]] Too bad he's gone. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we've all worked very hard all these months and we'll keep doing it all the time. And we work very hard with a single goal, which is the well-being of older people and the well-being of people with disabilities in Galicia. And we're working right now to improve everything that can be improved and we're working to perfect everything that already works. But the truth is we're not going to admit in any case lessons from parties that gave a clear example of what can't be done and what shouldn't be done. A government that has hidden data, a government that even falls into internal struggles to clarify something as basic as who coordinated the disinfection equipment. The truth is that Galicia, since the stability that always represents us, has at all times focused on curbing this pandemic. And we did it with four fundamental tools that were: prevention, anticipation, protocol endowment, as well as agility and strength in the reaction. And now that older residences are fortunately immunized, they learn to live with this new situation. Next, always providing us with the highest level of protection, and also giving all that security to older people and their families. Experience has shown us that Galicia is a responsible community, experience has shown us that Galicia is a struggling community and that it has faced this pandemic with all the tools that were at all times within its reach. Now we're also about looking forward and planning the better future. And in that we're working, I don't doubt you, Mrs Ortega, without rest. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u175	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the last of the interpelerations. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the improvement of primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u176	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u177	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. There's a general feeling that primary care is moving towards unstoppable deterioration. Feeling in the population, in the professionals and the evidence of progressive decapitalization are multiple and obvious. Before the outbreak of the pandemic, there were many difficulties, as explained here in this Parliament by the professionals, by the population. It was one of the most damaged areas for years of policy cuts carried out by the People's Party, 11 years of progressive cutting. The per capita investment in Galicia in primary care is lower than the average state. In the State it is EUR 206.73 and in Galicia it is 182.3. And Covid came to make the most of primary care, directing an already limited part of existing resources towards pandemic care. He had to respond to the pandemic at the expense of the tremendous efforts of the professionals, taking into account the ordinary demand, the chronics, the acutes, following up the people passing through and passing through Covid at home -- I keep telling him that the largest hospital is still being what is being dealt with from primary care --, crows, vaccines... without further reinforcements. And if any lesson has left us to Covid, Counselor, it is important to have strong, well-equipped primary care to protect the population. If your reinforcement, the model change, was an emergency before the pandemic, it is now more than necessary to make that model change. This observation of the importance of having a strong health system where primary care plays a key role, made it think that the Galician Union, the People's Party and you, as a maximum representative and responsible for the health of our country, would take note and correct this 11-year policy of constant deterioration of primary care, 11 years of harassment and fall, and made the hope that one would proceed with an impulse and improve that primary care. That after that tremendous effort made by the professionals and the professionals, it would be to put in place measures to end that chronic care overload, to end the precariousness. But the reality is that, quite the contrary, the People's Party is taking advantage of the pandemic to accelerate its policy of harassment and overthrow, and that's why it keeps primary care collapsed, with lack of professionals and sinking into a well that every day is deeper and deeper, Counselor. In the middle of the biggest pandemic we've known, the normal thing would be that in budgets significant amounts were allocated to meet those challenges that were before primary care. But the People's Party did not, the budget of 2021, 45 million euros less in primary care than in 2009. In absolute terms, that if we were to see life-enhancing comparisons and so on, we would be on a tremendously higher data. The deficit in primary care professionals is more than obvious. In the 2021 budget, only 85 are expected, even if you make lots of announcements on land, sea and air. And we regret to see that the People's Party actually sinks into the disengagement of public services instead of taking advantage of them to bring them closer to the population. And there are measures that, taken at the beginning of the pandemic, could be justified, but today, at the end of April 2021, they have no justification. And they have no justification, Counselor, that a year, more than a year after the pandemic has begun, if it continues to hinder access to health facilities. And it's producing a manifest inequality; according to the health area and the health center that corresponds to each person, the situation is different. And that's not what we say. It's not that we suffer every day because of the Greek and the Greek, but because, for example, the Ministry of Health of Santiago in writing challenged a person who made a complaint precisely because of that difficulty, that impossibility of accessing the health center. And the Management said that every health centre has its own organisational and protection measures. I mean, every health center does what it considers, there's no unified protocol for coordination, follow-up by Sergas. And that's why the first thing I have to ask you today, Counsellor, is why there are no clear and unified protocols for application in all primary care for access to health centres? Why does every center act according to what it considers? In one can, in another can't. It has to do with that inequality. It's no justification that a year later the difficulties of requesting an appointment are enormous. It is not allowed to apply for presence appointments either through the web, via the telephone, or at the health centres themselves. You have to pass the filter of a phone call first so that your doctor, the doctor, value if you need presence care or not. And I'm putting a practical example made yesterday in my own person. You go into the web and the first thing you're jumping on is this poster, Counselor, the first thing you're jumping on is this poster that says, "Because of the situation generated by Covid-19, all appointments registered from the Internet will be of telephone attention. If you need a presence appointment, contact your center directly." And then what you miss is that a date asked for yesterday the first one is for within two weeks. 12, two weeks. [[Applause]] I bring this here so you don't tell me they're timely cases. This is a reality that thousands of Greeks and Greeks face every day. And if it happens to someone, well, I'm going to try it over the phone, what you jumps into is an automated robot that tells you exactly the same thing. The appointment can only be telephoned within two weeks. And if you come to the health center to say that you need a presence appointment, what I'm telling you is that you have to have a phone call first so that the doctor has value if it's necessary to present it or not. Of course, Counselor, I wonder if you really think that the Greeks and the Greeks are not able to know if you need a doctor to see them or not. If you think you need to reach this level of population infantilization so you can't determine if you have a disease that needs to be seen at present and that you can't count on the phone. I'd like you to answer that question, if you think the Greeks and the Greeks don't have the ability to discern if they need to be seen by a doctor or a doctor or not. Because you want to turn health care into a voice mail, into a robotized phone, which, if it hurts here, hit one; if it hurts there, knock two; and that's not medicine, Counsellor. That's not medicine. [[Applause]] Because the fundamental element of primary care is face-to-face, direct contact between professionals and patients. And I have the second question I want to ask you, Counsellor, is, really, why can't people go to your doctor with all the measures, with the cleaning system that is necessary, and why are these images possible in hospital waiting rooms? why do hospitals, these are the usual ones in hospital waiting rooms, hospital consultations, and in primary care? Is the risk of infection not the same in primary care as in hospital, Counsellor? Why is primary care closed to which and how difficult is access? I'd also like you to answer that question. And it is also not to be welcomed that the lack of continuity in attendance continues to be maintained, that, for not covering professionals, for not covering vacancies, if they have to face professionals to see patients they do not know, which slows their attention, or patients who have to count one day to another, another day what is happening to them and that there is no quality in the assistance they receive, Counsellor. Contact and the professional-patient relationship is one of the cornerstones of primary care, a piar that the People's Party has been dynamite, has blown through the air by transforming a very important part of demand into non-presenceal consultations and telephone consultation. Telephone consultations, telematics, Counsellor, must be an instrument of support, complement, but health care cannot be exercised at a distance and less in primary care, direct contact is essential. Physical evaluation, see in front of the patient, that the patient and the professional can look into the eyes to see how it goes, and the presence care, the presence consultation must be the norm and not the exception, and you're trying to turn this situation around. And while this happens, Counselor, private health is growing, people are growing every day to private health, but not for taste, but because they have no response in public health, and that's the roadmap that seems to be implementing the People's Party. And they also raise professionals who march directly outside, go to private health, ask for suspension of calls, because they're getting better conditions in private or elsewhere that you're not offering them here. The lack of professionals, resources, they don't solve with APP, with telemedicine, or telephone calls, counsellor, but with more resources, more planning and putting on long lights of what reality is, the needs of our country's public health. And so the other question I want to ask you in this first intervention is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u179	... what is the planning you have to solve these serious problems with primary care? What is the path sheet you have so that primary care does not reach a non-return path, which is already about to be in it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u181	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs. Prado, we speak in this primary care plenary; of course, go ahead with our appreciation and appreciation for the work of primary care professionals, doctors, nurses, PSXs and all the staff that are part of the primary care teams, fundamental role before the pandemic and during the pandemic, and unfortunately for you, Mrs. Prado, after the pandemic will also be fundamental. He said we were talking about primary care, and I have to correct him some things about his interrogation. I generally like the conciliatory tone that we usually have in the field of health, but today I think it won't be the case, because you, as you usually do in the block these past few months, make an absolute partisan politicization of primary care. Concepts such as decapitalization, harassment and decline, dynamiteization, are concepts that we are already accustomed to in the carplands that ride in front of health centers, in the media, that's the usual thing. But, as I said, carps that we certainly didn't ride in front of the health centers, that some block council has a special desire to put carps in front of the health centers. He said he's got a couple of things that let me fix him, first it's not eleven years old, it's sweet, the People's Party has been taking the rent of public health for twelve years and not eleven, and basically it's not twelve years of what you say, but it's twelve years of growth. Growing up when the economic situation was the most complicated in recent decades, I'm talking about the year 2009, and now in a situation that we won't live in the last century, in a pandemic, that came to modify all the forecasts and the organization throughout the healthcare field. However, Galicia has this year a budget with an investment level in primary care that it has never had before, an increase in the last two of 11.2 % and which accounts for 31.2 % of the overall budget of the board. Therefore, it is false that there have been cuts in this area, although as they say, "you insist that something remains." You're proposing to go back to 2009, but we want to keep moving. Another step back, which you posed in your question, although today you haven't, but I want to take advantage of to comment, because you or someone else from your party will be returning to primary care agencies, which is a model that is already out of date. It is curious that in this case the Block looks at Madrid, for example, as a reference to a health service that still has primary care agencies, and does not look, for example, at the Basque Country, which is a health service that has already chosen, like Galicia, by integrated care agencies, which is a model, by the way, to which all health systems tend. We want to move forward and for that Galicia has had a Primary Care Plan since 2019, Mrs. Prado, 2019-2021, which in her day was in line with the professionals, since the objectives were agreed with them. This plan responds to the needs of modifying the forms of work of the organization, the increase in unique pathologies, which you collected very well, the fruit of this aging of our population, makes it necessary to optimize resources, resources on the other hand scarce especially in the field of family medicine or primary care pediatrics. We need to reform those resources, as I said, to meet that demand that has changed in recent times, while at the same time making the profile of our population. Thus, 10 working groups were formed with 123 professionals, besides also counting on professional schools and scientific societies, especially those of primary care, of course. They've done, on seven strategic lines and 52 targets, 200 priority actions; I'm not talking to you about 2009, I'm talking to you about 2019. In these priority actions, 100% of short-term actions are initiated and 96% are completed; and, of medium-term actions, 88% are initiated and 32% are already completed. All this considering that for many months the pandemic has made it very difficult to move forward in certain matters. In addition, we have achieved the coverage of 100% of the 45 new squares that were created in 2019, of which you, of course, did not speak. We have covered 80% of the 102 squares created by 2020, and we are in the process of covering 161 new squares created by 2021; in total there are 306 new squares in primary care. In addition, the plan provides for an investment of 8.6 million euros that is executed: 2.5 million in special clinical furniture but also furniture in general and the rest, 6.1 million in clinical equipment, for example: 1.95 million euros in electrocardiographs, 475; 641,000 euros in 239 pounds of blood pressure; 261 defibrillators; or 27 ultrasounds or 26 retinographs. For follow-up to the plan, you're told by a primary care technical council, an independent group of experts who are verifying that the steps taken by the working groups are being taken, and that this year they've served on two occasions. In addition, the fifteen sectoral commissions created to advance the implementation of the plan come marking what will be the next goals we will have to work on. The last ones they served were the masters, the nurses and the physiotherapists, who presented conclusions aligned with the plan of the German strategy. These in particular have made an effort to define the organization of staff and to determine which services should be provided by each category. The forecast is to have all the working documents approved by the Technical Council before the beginning of summer to pass later to the evaluation, implementation and conclusion phase. At the same time, we also developed the targets set through a document called By a primary vertebrate health system, developed by 16 independent primary care experts. The document advocates greater autonomy of the centers, which seems to bother you as to the organization of the Covid circuits. It also bets on innovating and managing human resources locally, as well as allowing new assignment of functions among professionals. Also improve demand management for better monitoring in order to optimize resources. In addition, it proposes the empowerment of the figures of the heads of service and the service coordinators, elected through the contests where a local health plan project is worth with a community medicine approach, of which you, of course, said nothing. Both the plan and the vertebrate document have as their common objective the strengthening of primary care. By the way, the President's purpose is also set on several occasions. Within the framework of both the plan and the vertebrate document, Sergas is now analysing with the different health areas a basic document for future local health plans, the ones he spoke about before and will approve each primary service in compliance with the new model. Local health plans should have a specific project tailored to the needs of each territory where medium-term targets are collected, including reducing the saturation of agendas, addressing demand management or the primary-hospital relationship, socio-sanitary services and the community itself. They are also defining leadership training courses for future heads and service coordinators. To continue to improve the presence of attention, we had set the target of 40% at the end of last year's objective, which was certainly met; and for this year we have set the target of 60% at the end of the year, in all integrated agencies, and is part of their management agreement. The centers only count on space limitation when hosting the allowed forum to be able to quote in person. From the Health Council -- and I'm going to say it very clearly -- no instruction has been given to promote telephone attention. I'm going to repeat that, since the Health Council, no instruction has been given to promote telephone attention. You know that this is the case, that there's still less attention in the presence than there should be, and I want to think that you're not questioning the work of professionals, because it's them who decide what patients look like in the presence and on the phone. It was like this before the pandemic, the telephone care tool -- I suppose they know -- is underway since 2013, and when a patient was receiving telephone care, the professional decided whether he was answering the phone or attending it in the presence. This was the case, Mrs. Prado, before the pandemic. The patient asked for telephone attention, when the patient asked for an appointment before the pandemic, he was given the appointment he was going out for his optional, for his nurse and, after finishing, asked the patient if he thought that attention could be telephone or presence. Well, it was like that before. The arrival of the pandemic established the convenience, fruit of the situation we live in, that all demands were seen by the optional ones and it was the optional and it is the optional that decides whether it has to be seen in the presence or on the telephone. As I say, we bet on presence care, as it cannot be otherwise, but we also bet on non presence, and we believe that it must again be, as it was before, an agreement between the doctor and the patient. We must not forget that we are talking about primary care, where mostly the optionals know their coupon perfectly and know their patients and their needs; this is not the case of specialized or hospital care. As I said, this was the planting and this is still being. We're at a time when it's very safe to go to health centers, because at the first moment all primary care professionals are vaccinated, exactly like those in the ICU or plant shelter units; and also right now, much of the users, those who by their age are more frequenting the health center, are also in an important immunization process. Mrs. Prado, there are already clear unified protocols in access to attention. In fact, in May 2020, we developed the Primary Care Reactivation Plan in relation to coronovirus infection, with the collaboration of scientific societies, schools and a multidisciplinary group of primary professionals to protocol care at each of the health centres. This document details the timing of the recovery of each of the tasks that are carried out in the health centres, was drawn up in May, as I said, and has been in force since then. Even though we spend a second, a third and even some can say a fourth wave, at no time we make decisions to restrict activities to primary care. The same level of activity is maintained in centers as in summer, exactly the same. We will continue to work towards that goal of achieving a high percentage of presence, of course, with the optional ones and so on, even though we continue to bet, as I said, for compatibility of presence and non-presenceal attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u183	...unthinkable to resolve certain recurring issues that need patients to do without going to the health center. Besides, also, within this bet on non-presenceal attention, we want to put more tools, and in fact in the Sergas Mobile app, I feel you don't like technology, Mrs. Prado, but we like to make it compatible with the presenceal, we've incorporated a tool so that this non-presenceal consultation can be also called videotape. And we also strengthen, as you know, the PSX system, and the call system with a computer system that allows us to detect calls that make the patient in the health center, that cannot be answered at a given time and that are then answered remotely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u184	Thank you very much, Counselor, after another turn. On the replica round, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u185	Look at one thing, Counselor: it's very nice to come here and come out here saying that you recognize the work of the professionals, but the best recognition that can do to the professionals are decent professional conditions, to finish with agendas of 50, 60 and 70 daily appointments, to end the prolongations of the day. [[Applause]] That's the recognition you have to do to the professionals, to recognize your work with decent working conditions. And, look, I just don't know very well where to start answering questions that you put here today at the table. Look, to me what bothers me is the neglect in which the Greeks and the Greeks are, that's what bothers me. That's what really bothers me. Like I'm not against technology, what I'm against is that you intend to replace professionals with technology, instead of being a complement. What bothers me, not only me, but the Greeks and the Greeks, who see that they have no quality health care, and that you want to see that via the telephone can normalize a attention that in many cases needs to be present. [[Applause]] And look at one question: I haven't seen here disqualifying anything that's not really there, and I'm going to read to you what the report of the Galician Bioethics Council says you know perfectly well, and that report says there's deterioration and loss of quality, deterioration and loss of quality by restriction and non-presenceal consultation. God or the Bioethics Council, says that telephone care endangers the quality of care. Presenceal attention must be the rule of gold. All of this doesn't say BNG, doesn't say this to me, said the Galician Bioethics Council, counsellor of your advice to which you seem to have absolutely no case. That's the reality. [[Applause]] You can't come here, at most responsible for the country's public health, saying you're going to try to see if it's possible to increase the presence of attention. You have to be clear what the presence attention should be, what cases should be presence care and which are left for telephone attention. And telephone attention can be to bureaucratic issues, to give a result, to make a follow-up, but not to a diagnosis; and that's what's happening here today. Because you say it must be an agreement between the Greeks, it must be an agreement between the professional and the sick. But what kind of agreement when the patient can't decide? An agreement is a negotiation between the parties, but if I say I want attention in person and the doctor says no, the question is not, and you cannot treat the Greeks and the Greeks as if they were children of a year. They have the ability to decide if they're in a bad situation and they need to see a doctor, not wait two weeks for a phone call, so then, after that conversation, the doctor decides if it's necessary or not necessary, because in that medium, what does people do? That's what you want, and it's the destination where you want it to stop. [[Applause]] And you, the exhausted staff, with prolongations of the day, the unattended population. That's the reality behind your primary care improvement plan. You actually put in place what they called "For primary vertebrate health care," and in that plan it says by active and passive that primary care should be the vertebrate axis of the system. How can you be the spinal axis of the system with less budget? That you dare here, by the way, saying that you have more primary attention today than 12 years ago... we can convene a monographic session to put the numbers on the table. Of course, budgets do not reflect that, budgets reflect that they still have 45 million euros less, so if we were to accumulate, they stopped investing nearly 2,500 million euros in primary care over these 12 years, with which vertebrator, with what resources?, with what professionals?, and with what roadmap, Counsellor? Look, what is evidence is that the health of the future that the People's Party was saying and propagating is this, replacing professionals with telephone consultations, eliminating the greatest value of primary care, which is proximity and accessibility, and of course we don't agree at BNG, just like thousands of Greeks and Greeks disagree, and many thousands of professionals. It is urgent to implement a strategy that allows for normalizing primary care, which is not the same as returning to the previous situation before the pandemic, or much less, a previous situation of interminable agendas and massification, but to put in place a new model that eliminates that situation from primary care, guarantees resources, guarantees professionals and guarantees quality health care, which is not being given today in our country. And I'll make you a number of proposals, Counselor. First, that it guarantees the presence of all the Greeks and Greeks who consider that they need it, and that it guarantees it already, not that it is an objective by the end of the year, because we are still in April, Counsellor, that it already guarantees it. That establishes unified protocols so that a person who needs the presence care may have it, not depending on which health center touches him, but rather having it when he needs it. That this plan of improvement of primary care is put in place without further delay, with the progressive increase of budgets up to 25%, facilitating resolution capacity, direct access to diagnostic tests from primary care, accompanied by a human resources management plan, where it is clearly identified that people are missing and that these squares are called. And that, in the face of the excuse that they don't have doctors to hire, once and for all put in place these multidisciplinary teams, with the incorporation of specialties where there are enough professionals, such as clinical psychology and how it's occupational therapy, such as physiotherapy, to take those schedules off and to allow better care quality. And the end, Mr President; what is not to be received is that in the situation in which you are persisting in working precariousness, which, being finished in a few days now, the fourth-year MIRs, of family doctors, continue to offer them 15-day contracts because they do not know which health center when they are so needed. And what's going to do an important part of those MIRs that finish? Go private or go outside, because you here don't offer them the lowest working conditions for them to stay. And that's your road map, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u187	Thank you very much, president and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, well, I used to start my intervention because I recognized and valued and thanked the primary care effort. You, besides decapitalizing, harassment and falling, dynamizing, etc., talk, I think with good atino, these 50-60 daily quotes. Well, I also want to add to that recognition for that activity that you're doing, contrary to what you say, that it looks like we're getting stuck and sending people to private. Well, I want to recognize those 50-60 dates you're making every day, many of them thanks precisely to the phone format. And I want to remember that, and you also said, in the follow-up to Covid's diagnosed patients, of 115,000 or 120,000, adding those we have now diagnosed in Galicia, an important part of their follow-up was by primary care professionals, and logically I suppose it will tell me yes, and it can't be any other way but not present. I suppose you won't want positive patients to go to health centers. He made this reference to that enormous effort that the primary care professionals are doing, I want to keep insisting on the philosophy he had previously defended. I actually believe in presence, but I also believe in new technologies, and nothing further, can listen to this counselor or anyone in our consulting, in which technology replaces no professional. Look, Galicia has been in the vanguard of technology for many years, especially in primary care; it's still today of the few autonomous communities that have integrated the electronic clinical history, precisely so that the primary care doctor has all the tools possible. For example, he has the interconsultation, a tool that allows the primary care doctor to do a non-presental interconsultation with his hospital colleague and to avoid a patient displacement to the hospital and the health center. Tools that are there and could put multiple examples. So don't go through that line. We want technology to help patients, help professionals, and ultimately help the system to put the medical acts where it brings value. We're working on unburocratizing primary care, we're working, as you know, on which disease assumes additional roles. For example, by working on the prescription, in the prescription program that allows the nurse to maintain a prescription, adjust it or even suspend it, so that the optional doesn't have to do that job. We're working with administrative staff so administrative demands can be channeled from that level. And, of course, to put in the tools for the doctor to do acts that bring value to him and to the patient. And, of course, we believe in that mutual agreement that I was commenting on at first, of what has to be present and what doesn't have to be present, and, as I say, that's where we want to go. True, because it seems that the pandemic was in March last year, in January this year we had a wave, curiously the highest of all we had. And in that context right now we can understand that primary care optionals now opt for working in that non-presental way. As I said before, she's not a director of the Health Council who can't access health centres. The health centers -- we did the same specific campaign with primary care -- are open and safe health centers. We keep it up, and I insist again, that we're not in favour of the tents installed in front of the health centers so people can wait outside. That's not our philosophy, maybe some municipality does, but it's not ours. And we continue to work with primary care professionals so that progressively, as we go out of this situation, the percentage of presence increases. But we continue to argue also that the criterion of what is seen in presence and what is seen in non presence is exclusively to today's optional, and hence it will not make us change. And, speaking of the current situation, well, I'm going to tell you percentages of presence of some optional of the Galician Health Service: 97%, 70%, 74% and 96%. These are arbitrary examples of the presence of certain optionals or many optionals of our primary care. As I said, we ended the year with 40% of the presence, and we will continue to work with them, with their hands, with protocols and in a proper way for that percentage to increase. I also have to say, you were going on that line, that the primary care activity not only decreases, not only decapitalizes, has not a harassment and a fall, but increases, Mrs Prado. We have been more active in these first months than in 2019 and in 2020 in the first three months of the year. Therefore, primary care is doing an exceptional job in the follow-up of patients and is using the tools that are in their hands and always ensuring their good care outcome. The investments -- which you always talk about on this topic -- look, if we compare the year 2021 with the last budgets of the year 2009 -- I take that glove to make that comparison monograph -- in chapter I there are 94 million more euros, in chapter II 4.5 million more and in chapter VI 35 million more. And you'll say, well, where's he going? So I'm going to tell you where it goes: we spend 134 million euros less on pharmaceutical recipe, because since 2009 we've been using a new concept, which is the generics. That's where the lowest primary care expense is. But I repeat, 94 million more in Chapter I, 4.5 in Chapter II, and 35 million in Chapter VI. You speak of precariousness; well, I guess you didn't know about the continuity contract we offered to primary care doctors a short time ago. A contract of 3 years, 3 years!, which may end up in an OPE square, with an annual gross salary of 62,000 euros, including two guards a month. If this seems precarious to you, we can talk about it in that monographic too. Finally -- I repeat -- I think we have to keep working; of course, we have to thank -- I repeat -- that work for primary care. We have a concrete plan, concrete measures, that you, as always, only ask for budget and more staff; it would be good if next time you brought here your organizational formula, improved service, something that is not going back to the old inheritances that have already passed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u189	In all areas, also in health care, you're betting on the multidisciplinary approach to health care, and we see it with the implantation of poscovid units, for example. And in order to be able to coordinate all the issues that we have formulated and implement the conclusions of the committees within the plan, as well as further develop the objectives of these two plans that I commented on the primary care plan and the vertebrate document, and as I have brought forward to you in previous meetings, tomorrow the Board of Governors will approve the establishment of the General Directorate for Health Planning and Reform...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u191	...that should work on the application of that future health care after the pandemic, and especially in the area of primary care, which should be the central care level of the entire Greek health system. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u192	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the last item on the agenda, from questions to questions to the Government. Question by Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the elaboration and implementation, before the summer of 2021, of a rescue plan specific to the services of the employers' parties
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u193	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u194	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Vice President first. Democracy already in Ourense! [[Applause]] I greet the Galician Party Services Association, who are seeing us right now. Galicia, as we all know, is the country of the thousands of parties; gastronomics, historical, religious... There's no village, town or city that doesn't have their party. Well, better said, there wasn't. In the current pandemic, the party service sector is one of the most hit economic sectors, since almost all of these companies or self-employed people in the field of verbena are few or none since the declaration of the state of alarm caused by Covid-19. At the end of the activity, thanks to state and autonomous legislation, there is also the fear of municipalities and party committees programming verbenas in each municipality, which has the party sector in a very worrying situation as the recruitment horizon for this summer is expected to be similar to that of the previous one; they need a specific protocol for them. In view of this tragic situation, companies in the party service sector have been holding several meetings with the Italian Government since July with a view to opening a line of direct aid to facilitate the maintenance of these companies. But once the autonomous elections were passed, they had only one meeting in August; since that month they were no longer received by the Galician Union, claiming a meeting with the German Government. This sector is mostly subject to a labour-intensive temporality that usually goes from April to October and that's why it's necessary to meet its particularities. The service needs compensation for all unworked months; party services have not been able to develop their activity since the end of the season, i.e., since October 2019, which brought about a radical paralysis of the activity that is already over the year and a half. The reasons why this collective couldn't accommodate the economic aid of the Galician Union were that only part of these companies were in a high state when the state of alarm was declared, since it was a clearly seasonal sector. And in the second line of self-help with workers in ERTE, published by the Galician Board, they couldn't accommodate her for the same reason, so they didn't have hired workers whose activity was closed at that time. The Galician Union has to draw a line of direct help for companies or individuals in this sector. It must be borne in mind that much of this staff could not access other benefits precisely because of the timeliness of their contracts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, well, the truth is, by reading the text of her question, she gives the impression, that I have to say that later on in her speech -- and I'm glad -- she didn't confirm, that when reading the essay, it seemed that these groups, on the other hand, are very sui generals, and I say it because for the purposes of meetings are not joint meetings. You seem to put them all in the same package, they're not, they require, and they deserve separate treatment. And it seems that they are subject to these restrictions by some kind of whim or arbitraryness directed especially at disturbing certain collectives. I hope that we agree that this is not the case and that everything is motivated by decisions taken by the Clinical Committee and that affect many sectors of activity that logically afterwards must help, but not only the Galician Union -- because it's very good to ask the Galician Council for an account, it's my duty to give them -- but they can also help a lot of the municipalities, and even what you belong to, that you haven't dedicated a single euro of direct help to these groups who are going through it and can therefore be helped by the whole world as they are being for us. Because, in fact, we've had meetings with them, several, in addition; and useful meetings and to reach agreements, not only economics -- that too, and now I'm going to talk about them -- but also so that they can -- that's what all the groups want especially damaged in their activity by the pandemic -- to be able to work. And we agreed on some protocols already last summer, I think if we weren't the first, we were the second autonomous community to close a protocol of action so they could work within logical restraints last summer when the president of the government and his party leader at the national level said that the pandemic was already over and, therefore, we didn't have to worry about anything. It's only bad that we're worried and we've done a protocol, that it's true that we had a lot of restrictions and that it was then not accompanied, in many cases by the logical fear or ignorance, by many commissions and even by many municipalities that are the traditional contractors of these collectives, especially orchestras, that didn't do it as much as a normal year. What did we do? Well, give us some help. First, it helps through the Galician Tourism Agency, 1.1 million euros for orchestrating events, which, due to the pandemic, most of these money has been passed this year and remain fully vigilant. And we also helped through nighttime leisure -- but here there's also a lot of musicians involved -- and for concert programming as soon as we can do, 800,000 euros of help there too. And, of course, these are the two rescue plans of the Galician Union, of which I'll give you details. By the way, you have some bad data, it's not true -- or I understand the writing of your question -- that you are limited to affected workers when creating the alarm state. By believing a minimum of four months and a maximum of nine during the years 2018 and 2019, they can already, like through time autonomy -- I say because I understand your writing that they can't -- they can already benefit. But in the second part, I'll give you data to see that we're actually working. I hope that some municipalities and I hope above all that the state in the third rescue plan will be encouraged to do so, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u197	Thank you very much, Vice President first. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u198	Thank you, President. Mr President, more than 4,000 families live in this sector. In this sector there are dusters, canteens, pyrotechnics, electricians, carp, etc. It's a lot, a lot of families who are going through it very badly, and Mr. Feijóo's government has to take care of them, you have to listen to them, and you have to help them because the skills are yours. They're yours! [[Applause]] Not from the councils or the deputies, it's your powers. [[Applause]] Oh, no, they're not yours, okay. [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Before the autonomous elections they met with them, promising help; after that meeting and after many calls they held a single meeting in which nothing new was said, what was said was a summary of the previous pre-election meeting. This sector is outraged because after multiple requests for meetings with the Galician Union they did not get an answer. You don't understand why Mr. Feijóo's government doesn't want to meet with such an important sector in Galicia as verbena. They don't know what's the reason not to meet. Today's demonstration is because they can't anymore, they're at the limit of their economic resources and they see how the Welsh Government doesn't listen to them. They're desperate. They're afraid they won't survive this pandemic economically. This sector calls for a meeting with the Galician Council, direct assistance, and offers to collaborate with the Autonomic Administration to develop a protocol so that it can assess the beginning of its activity. They're the first ones who want safe parties, they moved at all our meetings we had with them: they want safe parties, like? But they want to start their activity because summer is there. If Mr. Feijóo's government doesn't do his job, it'll be the end of this sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u199	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. For the Government's reply, the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Mr Rueda Valenzuela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u200	Mrs. Gallego, I urge you, the truth is, if you treat them as one sector, you notice that you don't have a lot of meetings with them; and if you have a lot, you don't pay much attention to them. And another thing, I can assure you, if you stay calm thinking that they also stay when they tell them -- as they actually tell them -- that they can't help them because this is a matter of competition and you don't have any competition in those laws provided for many years ago, that they say that in case of a pandemic a Member must be profiled. If you think they're quiet, you don't stay quiet at all, leave us absolutely thrown away, we all have to help and we're the first ones. [[Murmurs.]] And it's indecent that you support that you can't do anything because it's a competitive issue, this is a competition that reaches us all, helping this sector goes on duty and, if you want, in the consciousness of all public officials, so we're going to do it. [[Applause]] We'll do it! [[Applause]] And you'll never hear the Galician Union meet with a collective and tell your face, you have to have a lot of faces to tell them: we can't do anything because I don't know about a competitive subject. [[Applause]] That's absolutely false. So I'm going to tell you that we're fulfilling our obligation, contrary to what others do. 1.1 million last year spent this year in practice all; 0.8 for hiring musical performances through nighttime leisure; more than 3 million euros, Mrs. Gallego, in the two rescue plans. You're talking about industry, so you can see it's various sectors. And by grouping CNAE, several of them -- because it could still make more different and more numerous groups -- : orchestras and similar, requests from the first rescue plan, 356; requests from the second rescue plan -- we will meet most --, 681; fairground attractions, several CNAE, 457 paid in the first rescue plan, 923 received and we hope to meet its vast majority in the second rescue plan; street sales, 695 paid in the first rescue plan, 909 requested in the second rescue plan; pyrotechnics, 24 requests in the first rescue plan, and pyrotechnic companies, 29 paid all, 29, requested and expected to attend to the second rescue plan. More than 3 million euros specifically, Mrs Gallego. But how can you say they haven't received any help? But how can they say we're not fulfilling our obligation? Look, we just pulled out, in addition, a few days ago, a specific order for people in the show sector who for a number of state regulations were left out of any open aid and so the Galician Union will also help them. That adds to everything else. So don't say, of course, if the comfort is to cross your arms and say that it's a competitive theme, for, yes, this is our competition, just like yours; the difference is that the Galician Union is responding to it and you get profiled and passed on from everything. We'll see now on the third rescue plan to see if the money comes at once and at the same time if we get out of the way to attend CNAE, not to attend CNAE, which is very much the central government's own to do nothing. Here it's a loss of education for not being able to work, it's going to have no income and it's going to help people with no excessive bureaucracy, no readings and no profiling. I hope the Galician Union can do this on the third rescue plan too, and I hope that the central government, in view of its collaboration, will not make any obstacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u201	Thank you very much, Vice President. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question from Da María do Carme González Iglesias and 3 other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to ensure the continuity of construction, ship repair and employment at San Enrique shipyard (former Vulcano), Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u202	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u203	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The Vulcan shipyard, the sign of identity of the Teis working district, in the city of Vigo, with a 100-year course building ships, was one of the main productive units in the vicar sector. With a remarkable relevance in terms of socio-economic impact, both in direct and indirect jobs and in the mobilization of the auxiliary industry. Vulcan came to have 1,000 highly qualified workers and has magnificent facilities to build ships. In 2019 the yard applied for voluntary liquidation and last year Vulcan passed by the hands of a new owner who already has work proposals for the future and is working. Throughout the competitive proceedings of the company, the port authority -- by which then chaired by Enrique López Veiga -- opened an administrative and judicial offensive with the objective of preventing the transfer of the concessionary rights from Vulcan to South Marina, the current owner, and resolving Vulcan's concession in order to end the shipbuilding and repair activity, and for other uses, specifically those referred to in containment logistics. The recent judgment of the Court of Jurisdictional Conflict brings to the hands of the Port of Vigo the decision on the completion of the port concession of the Teis yard, which runs until 2027. But the Harbour Authority seems to be in a hurry to extinguish this concession to re-issue it. The resolution of the current concession will require an express agreement of the Board of Directors of the Port, in which the Galician Union, the Vigo Council and other public administrations are represented. And that's where you come in, Counselor, what is the position of the Galician Union with regard to the granting of the lands of the ancient Vulcan? Do you wager the German Government for the continuation of the naval construction on the harbour land of Teis? What measures does your Government intend to take to ensure the continuity of shipbuilding and employment at San Enrique de Vigo yard? In the BNG we have it clear, this plot has to be dedicated to repairing and building ships, and any other option would be a hard blow to the Vigilian naval industry and auxiliary companies. Trade union, business and civil society organisations in Vigo have already shown their refusal to use anything other than naval activity. They make the right decision not to terminate the concession, so that the shipbuilding will continue in Teis and that the workers who are at home without charge will recover their jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs. González. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs González, except in the tone that you have used in your intervention, which I don't know why you want to move a disagreement with the Galician Union, I think we can actually find points of agreement, because we are sure that we agree with the importance of the naval sector in the Vigo River and in the Galician ensemble as a strategic sector, and we are sure that we agree that Vigo cannot lose capacity installed in the naval sector. And so if we're at that point we'll be on a scene of agreement. Just as we agree that, indeed, the decision on the future of the concession will not be either the President of the Harbour Authority of Vigo or the Galician Union. You have transferred it, which is actually going to be a decision that you have to make the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority and, therefore, both the Central Government and the Councils of Vigo and Roundola, the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Entrepreneurs of Pontevedra, the IGC itself and the Arvi Fishermen's Cooperative, we will all have to defend industrial activity on these lands, we will have to defend jobs and, therefore, we will have to defend a future for the entire workforce. And we will do so in the context, Mrs González, of dialogue and always looking for solutions. Solutions for the shipbuilding sector, employment solutions. And what you'll probably agree with me is that this project will have to be a project that has all the guarantees. You will have to have all guarantees, firstly legal, and therefore you will have to evaluate the content and resolution of the Court of Appeals, and you will have to have all guarantees from the point of view of the industrial project, so investment, hence the burden of work, so the guarantees of employment generation. And I believe that at that point, Mrs González, we will also agree and, therefore, we will act with full responsibility, seeking that future of jobs, also seeking dialogue, consensus with all parties and, above all, giving absolute priority to the continuity of industrial activity on those lands and, of course, we will also give priority as a whole to Vigo maintaining his capabilities in the shipbuilding sector, because that is our priority from the point of view of a strategic sector as is the shipbuilding sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u206	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs González Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u207	You're right, Counselor. I have already told you that the decision to be taken by the Board of Directors of the Port of Vigo Harbour Authority, in which both you and the People's Party, and the Socialist Party have representation; they rule in the state and rule in Galicia. It's in their hands, they have the majority of the votes to refuse Friday when the initiative is raised to grant Vulcan, they have the votes so that it will not take place and so Vulcan can continue to make ships on Teis' lands. Don't cheat on citizenship, counselor, saying it's not a political decision when it is. It's a political decision that you have to make and Friday is the time to do so. [[Applause]] You always tell us that the PP, that the People's Party that is ruling in the Galician Union, bets on the naval sector in Vigo, but with viable projects, blah, blah. Vulcan, the shipyard San Enrique now has a company with a workload and a future, with workers waiting for them to be called to work. Two contracts have already been lost. Friday they won't be allowed to be rescinded from the land and will continue to work, and San Enrique, Estaleiros San Enrique will have a future. Vigo is an industrial city, Counselor, we have already lost 5,400 industrial jobs in the city since you govern and some responsibilities will have. You have industry competences in the autonomous community. They guarantee Vulcan and Teis land...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs. González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u209	...follow the sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u210	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u211	All right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. González, as always, the Galician Nationalist Block urging this Government not to comply with the law, as always. I mean, you're telling me that we, not in this case, but the Harbour Authority of Vigo doesn't have to withdraw its concession. [[Murmurs.]] The Court of Judicial Conflicts has said so very clearly, Your Honor. What urged voluntary liquidation and therefore urged that liquidation and the loss of concession was the yard itself, and therefore I think that you should not divert the focus of the problem and, therefore, that you once again intend to deceive citizenship, and so of course, Mrs. González, will not find a future Vulcan. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We, like Junta de Galicia, have always kept our position clear with regard to Vulcan, and therefore we always defend that it would have to be a solid project from the point of view of workload, investment, generation of employment. And if not, we logically don't defend that project. You seem to have made it clear what this future project is, we in this case do not have it, but in any case it will have to be the Governing Council itself which will have to take account of that project and if it really has that possibility of the future. Of course, the only way to defend Vulcan's project is with all legal guarantees and with all the requirements from the point of view of the project, and that's where the Galician Union has always been and where it will continue to be logically located to guarantee the future and, above all, the maintenance of industrial activity and jobs. What's surprising is that the Galego Nationalist Block comes once again to talk about industrial policy, when you're at no time about defending industrial employment, your interest is null, it's just a partisan interest. You're permanently on the no, you're on the no to ensure the viability of the naval industry. Curiously they want to defend Vulcan jobs and they don't want to defend the jobs of the auxiliary Ferrolterra industry, which depends on the shipbuilding and that you are withdrawing their support. Just as they withdraw their support from employees and the auxiliary industry of the Bridge Central, they withdraw their support from any wind project or sustainable mining project, although they meet all the criteria and all the legality and, of course, withdraw any kind of support from the employees of Ence. So, Mrs. González, I think the Galician Nationalist Block has nothing to move here from an industrial point of view. They have ideological prejudices and those ideological prejudices against the workers, and we'll be here precisely to defend what you don't defend, which is industrial work in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u212	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the lines of action committed by the Galician Union to the entrepreneurship affected by the fire of the industrial polygon of Ceao in Lugo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u213	To put the question, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, as you know on Sunday, April 11, 17 days ago, a fire was unleashed in the CEAO Polygon in Lugo which affected several ships where different materials were stored, some of which, once burned, greatly hampered the extinction tasks by their characteristics, as was the case of paintings and the different components used in their manufacture, or the rubber of tyres. That day, about six and a half o'clock in the morning, Lugo firefighters received a call because there was a fire alarm in Castro Parga, and when, in fact, the firefighters approached, they found that there was a fire but the temperature within the ship was very high and almost stopped them from working. Even so, they prevented the fire from reaching the solvent store, but they could not prevent the flames from still devouring the rest of the company full of exhibitors with paint cans and other flammable products, in addition to parks, rubbers, wood, etc., and other decorative materials. If that wasn't complex enough, the wind conditions made it difficult, because of their change of direction, the extinction of the fire, which came to blow with some force and caused the flames to leap from that ship to the sidelines, full of tires from Frain's company. Once hundreds of blankets were inflamed, the fire became absolutely uncontrollable and completely devoured the two plants of the company, affecting also the adjacent ones and consuming also one of automotive spare parts, Volante replacements. Obviously, within these stores we are talking about materials that are necessary to store, since they are part of the distribution chains of everyday consumer goods: paintings, replacements for automotive, etc. The fact is that the exemplary performance of the firefighters of the Town Hall of Lugo, supported by the Vilalba, which belongs to the Provincial Consortium of Lugo for the provision of the fire and rescue service; several firefighters of the forest fire personnel of Monterroso, Becerreá and Chantada; as well as the Logistics Support Group of the Galician Emergency Agency, which facilitated a nodride truck, along with the actions of members of Civil Protection, Local Police and National Police; and also the activation of the Galician Emergency Plan, have undoubtedly contributed to minimizing the consequences of a fire of enormous complexity. And for that reason they all deserve recognition and gratitude. Estimates speak of millionaire losses; of course, it's an obscenity to speak of between 10 and 20 million euros, because it's a huge difference in money, but at the moment they're not, as far as I know, quantified. And it's important to note that the president came the next day and committed lines of action to help these entrepreneurs. And, therefore, you wonder what avenues of action have been compromised?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Álvarez, first of all, I would like to thank you for bringing to this Parliament the situation that has arisen in the fire of the Skyline because, indeed, it is a fire that has a huge impact on industrial activity, not only by companies, but by the whole that is generated from the economic and business point of view. And I logically join in thanking the work done by all the troops who participated in the extinction device. His professionalism and rapid performance, as you have just moved in his intervention, contributed to the fact that if he could actually control the fire, but at the same time that it was avoided that fire was more serious and that we didn't have to lament personal victims or any greater impact within the polygon. At the same time, I think it's important, and I also join in their intervention, our solidarity with the employers, with the workers and with the families affected, because not only the employers, but also the workers themselves and the families, at the moment, have a goal that we can reconstitute the companies and that at the same time they can return to their jobs as soon as possible and return to normal from the point of view of their performance. We have indeed been collaborating from the very first moment and, as it has also moved, the President of the Board has moved to the area the very next day precisely to know by first hand the damage recorded and, above all, to confirm by the President of the Council of Galicia that the Government is next to the employers, alongside the workers, in order to facilitate recovery and that one can return to the activity as soon as possible. And he has given the president himself what those aids are. First of all, we have to wait for the job that the insurers have to develop, because logically we have to evaluate and quantify what are the damages and coverage that can be covered by the insurers; but from the very first moment, from now on, businessmen know that they are at their disposal circulating and loans while not running their own insurance policies, which is a first necessity if they need to take care of it. And at the same time, we also transferred to the entrepreneurs our willingness to collaborate in the planning for the reconstruction of the ships, and surely most relevant, the funding once we know the projects so that we can promote the development and recovery of the activity, a accompanying work that logically we will work together between the entrepreneurs themselves and the Union of Galicia. And here I'm just sending a message of unity and collaboration, which is what we're developing on the part of all the administrations and on the part also by our own...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u217	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u218	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your reply, for I am also fully convinced that both the Galician Union and all the administrations, first of all the Lugo Town Hall, are doing their best to minimize the economic impact this fire had. It is true that in these affected companies, in the most seriously affected ones, because obviously the ships have been destroyed, they work around a hundred people and that, in addition, the Secretary-General of the Lugo Confederation of Entrepreneurs has stated that it was necessary for insurance companies to be able to cope with the circumstances, because there is obviously a very complex process, taking into account the implications of the economic amount of what we are talking about. It's true that a number of aids are generally established for this kind of contingencies, but you have spoken, and I think it's good, of circulating, that is, to put money immediately at the disposal of entrepreneurs, of loans, of financing for the reconstruction of ships, but since the institutional loyalty that I think it requires to deal with a situation like this that affects a very important activity for the city of Lugo, it's also true that more things can be done. It is not a matter of establishing similarities, but in 2017 there was a fire of similar characteristics in an industrial polygon in Valencia, specifically in Paterna. But it's also true that at that time Generalitat de Valencia has taken additional measures that I think you should also value. It's not only to make it available to entrepreneurs, loans on an immediate basis, but also to provide help so that the interest generated by these loans is also assumed by the Administration, as was done in the case of this fire in the autonomous community of Valencia. So, Counselor, I ask you: besides these tips you've spoken about, do you plan to generate some kind of additional mechanism to reduce or eliminate the impact? Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u219	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, the second vice president, the Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Councilman, Mr. Conde López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u220	Thank you very much, President. Mr Álvarez, in fact, I believe that the most relevant and the lesson learned at this event is that collaboration between administrations is the way to address situations of this enormous difficulty. So both the Galician Union and the county itself have been working hand in hand and we are sure that in the reconstruction process we will do exactly the same work. And the priority objective is that the activity can be recovered as soon as possible. I'll transfer the measures that we already have, and I think in this context we have to somehow recover, you talked about a fire in Valencia, I wouldn't go so far, I would go to Vigo's laugh and, remember, in 2016 there was a fire in Fandicosta that broke down with the facilities, and that spirit of the businessman, of the workers and of the collaboration that he kept with the Galician Union allowed us, in the end, to have a project that is already alive, that they were able to recover all the jobs. I believe that Fandicosta spirit we have to bring it to Heaven and, therefore, with that same spirit working together between the Administration and the entrepreneurs themselves. And we will do what, once we know, first the reach of the results of the insurers and, therefore, what is the real situation to be faced; and, secondly, to know the projects that entrepreneurs want to develop and, therefore, the needs that they may have, first from the point of view of funding and, secondly, also from the point of view of other types of aid to investments that they might need. And I think at that moment, and so we moved it, we'll sit with the entrepreneurs to be able to evaluate the aid and how the Administration can accompany this process of reconstruction. I think that's the way, the Galician Union is working directly on the dynamization of the Lugo Town Hall, is working together with the Town Hall itself, and we are developing that collaboration with the Town Hall we will move it on time and in concrete terms to the entrepreneurs themselves affected by this sky fire. And, as I said, I think today more than ever, what we have to move that message is to continue to work together with the administrations themselves, with the workers, to reverse this situation, and I am convinced that with that spirit of Heaven we will be able to rebuild the activity and therefore, as soon as workers can recover their jobs and their activity. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by Maria Guadalupe Murillo Solís and seven other Members of the People's G.P. of Galicia, about the situation in which the cleansing works of the Pontevedra River are currently being carried out by the Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u221	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Santos Costa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. Thank you very much, for being here to be able to respond to such an important topic for all the municipalities in Galicia as sanitation. And I say it's very important for the municipalities because we're all aware that sanitation and purification, as well as water supply, because they're municipal competences. But, as we know, the Galician Union is working in this field, although it is not its competition, it comes collaborating, it comes supporting and helping many Galician municipalities to learn of the difficulties encountered by local entities in providing this service, both because of its technical complexity and because of the lack of resources to make the necessary investments and provide a good service, and to make good management. If in the last plenary session you referred to the investment of more than 33 million euros in sanitation and purification that the Infrastructure and Mobility Council you are directing envisaged for the Vilagaría Town Hall and which has an impact on an improvement in the Arousa River, today we want to be interested in the actions that the board has already done, the actions that are already being carried out, and also those projected for the future in the Pontevedra River. We know that the Government of Greece is working to improve the quality of water in the Pontevedra River, so that this improvement will benefit the tourism, seafood and fishing activity that develops in the area, while complying with European standards in this regard. To achieve this goal, a set of projects have been planned, some recently completed, as is one of the various envisaged in my Marin Town Hall, with the execution of a new general collector of more than 1,200 meters of greater capacity, as well as a new pumping facility and which is also completed with a 1,500 cubic metres of capacity retention tank, so I also take advantage of my intervention in this House to thank the lady advisor for this work that will result in an improvement in the quality of life of the marine neighbours. And planning these projects will make it possible to make substantial progress in the comprehensive sanitation of the Pontevedra-Marin stream, improving both the sanitation network, debugging, also avoiding most pollutants to the sea. These actions are already taking place in the improvement and expansion of the extraction capacity of the Praceres waste water debugger, which will be complemented by the construction of a new submarine emissary. In fact, the Junta, through the waters of Galicia, began last July the works at the EDAR of Pleasures. The work involved several departments of the Government of Greece, the Council of Infrastructures through the waters of Galicia, which is the one that is pushing these actions; and also the Council of the Sea, for the benefits these actions will entail for the fishing and seafood sector, and mainly benefit the municipalities of Pontevedra, Marín, Poio and Vilaboa. We want to know from the People's Party's Parliamentary Group what situations are now in which the work of sanitation in the Pontevedra River is already under way by the Government of Greece.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos. To answer that, you have the floor of Mrs Vázquez Mourelle's Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u224	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything characterizes the Galician Union working on water, it is of course the care of our rivers, and in 2009 we have already set the goal of the comprehensive sanitation of the Galician rivers and decided it for different reasons. First of all, because it's a unique element that identifies us as Galicia; secondly, because we're talking about the fact that rivers have a great environmental value; and basically already for our fishing, for our seafood, for aquaculture, for our tourism, and ultimately quality of life and also for public health. We've made a lot of progress over the past few years, over a hundred performances in the last decade and over 500 million euros on sanitation only in the Welsh rivers. We substantially improve the quality of our water, almost 80 percent of the water masses of our streams in good condition, but there's work ahead. There is still work ahead not only doing works, but also realizing that professional exploitation is necessary; it is essential to maintain the works that are carried out, something essential, and of course a challenge in the Pontevedra River. We're in a sensitive area, in a sensitive zone qualified as such, and therefore the levels of quality that are required in that stream are much more demanding, in the field of nitrogen and phosphorus fundamentally; and what we need is to act with determination, with ambition, with diligence to achieve comprehensive sanitation, and so we're doing it from the Unity of Galicia. But it's a job that, of course, we should all do; the councils first, which are the ones that have direct competences; the Council of Galicia helping, but also the deputies, who have the obligation to assist the councils in their competences when they are overwhelmed, as may be integral sanitation. From the Junta of Galicia we carried out audits, detailed analysis, palm to palm, the entire network of Marín, Pontevedra, Poio. We plan, we draft this comprehensive sanitation plan in Pontevedra, we prioritize actions, 47 million euros of priority actions as necessary and essential. And thanks to that work, there are two fundamental actions being carried out, which is the improvement of the debugger, 16.5 million euros, 40 % running, which will significantly improve the quality of the river and the complementary action, that submarine emissary to start the works now, 12 million euros in which we will move forward. We also have 10 performances on the municipal network, that is, the municipal network has its shortcomings, especially on the Cocheras pump, which we have recently bid on the constructive project, a few days ago, to invest 3.7 million euros in that pump, and thus helping the municipalities exercise their powers. It's also important, as I said, maintenance and, I stress, municipal competition is what we all have to be in, it can't be the Junta just act in the integral sanitation of the Galician rivers. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u225	Thank you very much, Counselor. Stop replicating it. Mr. Santos Costa has the floor. I'm begging you to get the microphone right, because the volume was little before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u226	Thank you very much, Counsellor, for your reply and for your commitment that has been demonstrated so abundantly from the waters of Galicia and from the Council of Infrastructure and Mobility to the actions carried out over the last ten years in improving the management of the water cycle, with countless investments in the municipalities, despite the fact that, as it is clear, it is not a competition from the Autonomic Administration, but from local authorities. What is also demonstrated is the transparency and impartiality with which it acts from its council, knowing the municipalities that will benefit from these investments and the actions planned for the sanitation of the Pontevedra River, taking into account that of the four beneficiary municipalities, Pontevedra, Marín, Poio and Vilaboa, only the Marin Town Hall is governed by the People's Party. So, the important thing is to get the sanitation investments out of your board, which is summed up in more than 100 actions, with an investment of more than 500 million euros. And I say this because it would also be very interesting for other administrations, such as the Pontevedra Parliament, to participate and collaborate with the municipalities in this type of investment. The board did a detailed work for the preparation of this Pontevedra River Sanitation Plan, to analyse the operation of sanitation systems and thus define the priority actions to address the deficiencies of the municipalities of Pontevedra, Marín and Poio, and with a total investment of 47 million euros. In addition to the improvement of the current debugger of Praceres, and of the works of the new submarine emissary, this sanitation plan, because it contemplates two more performances in the Marín Town Hall, two more performances in the Poio Town Hall, and six projects in the city of Pontevedra, one of which you have certainly recently visited, the authorities representing this municipality had problems finding the location of their own pump. So we'd like to know what their assessment is of the involvement and collaboration of the municipalities, and also of the rest of the administrations in connection with the sanitation of Pontevedra's river. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u227	Thank you, Mr. Santos. Close this question, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u228	Thank you. I use today again to insist on two questions. One first question is that sanitation, purification and supply are municipal powers, which often overflow the municipalities, direct responsibility of the municipalities. And secondly, that it is necessary that the administrations are all working so it's something that is as important and as singular as our laughs, and offering better services and therefore working together. The technical and economic support of the Galician Union is unquestionable and is beyond doubt in the sanitation of our rivers, and of course in particular in the Pontevedra River; 47 million euros identified as priorities in which we are working, 32 million euros of works running, that works are not being played by a button, the works must be processed and designed; and 15 million euros in projected actions in what is the municipal network and therefore in the network of competence of the municipalities. So if you collaborate with the municipalities, of course you and there are the Galician Union working together, but you must certainly serve as an example to the rest of the administrations. And I want to focus on Members, because I don't see, of course, involvement or interest in such a crucial and fundamental and capital matter as the healing of the Welsh rivers. The councils, as I said, have the powers, they cannot be disbanded and there are functions that correspond to them; I believe there is a matter of appeal, the debugger of Pontevedra, that they do not tell me that it is extra-municipal, and therefore it is the competence of the board of Galicia, because it is not so, there is the debugger of Bens of course, managed by the council of the Crown, and of course assumes the residual waters of many municipalities. And it's the only city that's certainly worried about the debugger of Pontevedra. There are spills, and of course the fault is not the debugger, there are spills like what we saw in the Cocheras pumping, a municipal competition pump, and of course what the Galician Union has to go out of the rescue of Pontevedra Town Hall itself by drafting this project that we are going to draft and invest 3.7 million euros to give solution to those spills that are affecting Pontevedra's stream in a substantial way. I call attention to the 32 million euros that we are already investing in the sanitation of the Pontevedra River, after intense, technical and of course economic work. The largest beneficiary is the Pontevedra Town Hall, 30 million euros of direct benefit to the direct competitions of the Pontevedra Town Hall and a total of 38 million euros of sanitation and clearance of the Pontevedra municipality. And to me, tell me, with this data, who cares most about the sanitation of the rivers and the river of Pontevedra, those who use a sign and nothing else or those who invest 47 million euros, those who do audits, do projects, solicit works, assist works and perform works? I think that with the work ahead, it's how matters have to be solved, and we have certainly shown in particular in the Pontevedra Town Hall a major work on our part, of many resources, with important administrative processing, and that's why it's also crucial that the Ministry of Ecological Transition axillizes its authorizations. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u229	Thank you, Counselor. Question by da Paula Prado del Río and seven more MPs from G. P. Popular of Galicia on the evaluation by the Employment and Equal Development Council of the VII Strategic Plan of Galicia for equal opportunities between women and men 2017-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u230	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u231	Thank you, President. Counsellor, the principle of transversality is the basic premise in the planning and execution of public policies being carried out by the Government of Greece, and is therefore also one of the guiding principles of the VII Strategic Plan of Galicia for equal opportunities between women and men 2017-2020, which aims at boosting and strengthening the consideration of gender equality as a cross-cutting element in all policies and actions of the Government of Galicia, which is defined as a framework document from which the concrete actions to be carried out to achieve a reality, a real and effective equality between women and men. And we are also faced with the major challenges facing the Autonomous Community of Galicia in recent years, even when we had to face an unimaginable pandemic, such as Covid-19, in order to consolidate a model of intelligent and sustainable socio-economic development, challenges that the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 collects as transversal objectives: the drive of culture and innovation, the promotion of entrepreneurship, industrialization and internationalization, the demographic dynamisation and territorial cohesion and the setting of population in rural areas. Galicia's VII Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men 2017-2020 was set up in three major chapters. The first is the integration of the principle of equality into government policies and action, which brings together a total of 12 priorities for action that represent the commitment of the self-government to consolidate and strengthen the actions already taken to improve governance for gender equality. The second, consisting of five strategic areas for equality, which have been defined and designed as areas of strategic action to continue to work towards the elimination of inequalities between women and men by 2020. These five strategic areas that you know well are: equality in education and values, equality in work and time management, equality in employment and innovation, equality in participation and leadership, and equality in quality of life. And as a third chapter, something fundamental and very important, such as the goals and measures designed for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, which are articulated in two strategic areas. On the one hand, awareness-raising and prevention, on the other, intervention and integration. We are aware, Counselor, of the importance that the fight against gender violence has for the Greek Government, because it makes this plan also address in an independent chapter planning for intervention in this matter. The plan is the result of collaborative work between the different governing bodies and this institutional cooperation and coordination has been developing for the past four years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Time's up. Thank you, thank you. [[Applause]] Reply by the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Ms. Maria Jesús Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u233	Thank you very much, good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Indeed, the commitment of the Galician Union is already shown in these seven strategic plans for equal opportunities between women and men. We are now talking about the seventh plan, the seventh plan with 253 measures and 400 million euros, which is divided, as you well said, in these three specific chapters. The plan, first and generally, gives a good example and thus gives it its execution of the transversality in the execution of this, and above all in the involvement of the whole society, of all the institutions in the whole of the execution of the plan. I will take note of the execution by chapters, beginning with chapter I, the principle of equality in the planning of the Galician Union. This is shown in the regulations in the contractual and subsidised activity of the Union and in the inclusion of gender mainstreaming, in the development and implementation of budgets; it is also shown in the momentum for the balanced participation of women and men in the bodies of consultation and participation of the Union; and in training in equality and prevention and combating gender violence, both within the internal sphere of autonomous administration and for local issues. The principle was also consolidated in the network of information centres for women in all transversal and consultative bodies, such as the Interdepartmental Equality Commission and the Galego Monitoring Centre for Gender Violence or the Women's and Science Unit of the Galician Union. Chapter II, as you well said, is divided into five strategic areas, whose execution is also magnificent. Firstly, equality in education and values. In this chapter, or in this area of the chapter, we have launched the first action plan for equality in the educational centres of Galicia, a plan that led to the development of teaching materials for dissemination actions, actions or educational content on equality, gender perspective in educational curricula. Secondly, equality in the management of jobs and times has also given rise to the elaboration of another plan, the first Greek plan for conciliation and co-responsibility 2018-2021; in the said framework of action, it has worked on actions aimed at time rationalization, promoting the corresponding reconciliation and strengthening of resources that facilitate reconciliation. So, help to reduce the daytime of parents and even single-parent families, help to local entities for time banks and reconciliation resources, and help in the labour market for teleworking and time-flexibility agreements. And at the third point in this chapter, equality in employment and innovation, we work on real and effective equality in employment, with incentives and support for women's recruitment and women's self-employment, and we also, of course, work on women's skills and training. We also work on equal participation in leadership and equality of life and well-being. In the third chapter, prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, we are pioneers in the execution of that state pact against gender-based violence. With which we can well finalise the execution of this plan, which we are already analysing and which we have already analysed 123 actions of the 253 to develop that VIII equality plan in the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u234	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u235	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, thank you. Thank you for your work and for the seriousness of addressing the equality policies of the Government of Galicia. The truth is that it comforts us to be part of the People's Party right now, at this moment when we can contrast how we are working equally at the Galician Union under the command of a People's Party Government and what is being done in Spain with frivolity and with the installation in the Salvation Deluxe of equality policies. Because, look, Your Honor, I'm talking about frivolity because the great contribution of the Ministry of Equality is to say that the rose demonizes women, or not about the ridiculous exaltation of language between children, daughters, children, children, children, and already the sum of ignorance yesterday when we heard a minister talk about raising taxes and taxes. But when we have to take care of the really important, Counselor, they disappear. They disappear when an investigation commission is to be opened for sexual abuse of minors in Valencia, when serious policies have to be addressed to address the wage gap between women and men, and when at this moment and in this context of economic, social and health crisis, women are suffering the greatest problem of unemployment in our country's history; and there the Government of Spain is missing. The truth is, I'm going to collect press articles that say, so look, for example, "Women earn 5,800 euros less and only 1.8% are in high direction." "PSOE and We can slow down wage equality laws." "Covid widens the labor gap." "The Congress passed a royal decree granting a supplement to the mothers of one child, but at the expense of the lowering of the pensions of mothers with two or more children." "The civil servants will not have more motherhood if they retire in advance." "Spain was the country of the European Union in 2020 where unemployment among women grew the most." Thank you, Counselor, for comforting us with your work and with your seriousness in the policies of equality. I don't know if they're planning to make an eighth plan, we'd be grateful if you could answer the enlargement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Close this question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u237	Thank you very much. I would like to take advantage of the reply, first of all, because I think it is no less to speak of these 400 million in the implementation of this plan, to say that they were within the first chapter of equality within the autonomous administration 60 million euros for these policies in these five strategic areas of which we are talking: education, employment reconciliation, employment equality, were more than 300 million euros invested in these policies and more than 23 million euros in the third chapter in the fight against gender violence. By linking a little, Mrs Prado, with what you were commenting on, you have also taken advantage of this intervention so that from here on you will ask for the necessary collaboration with the Government of the State and the necessary collaboration with the Ministry of Equality in certain areas, where competition is a competency of the General Administration of the State of the Government of Spain. We miss this approval of the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Act, where time rationalization is really regulated, and autonomous communities have no direct competence, we can only indirectly influence the rationalization of times through conciliation and co-responsibility measures, as we are doing in the autonomous community. We also miss this approval which rules once and for all wage equality; we do not have direct competence in the autonomous community to do so. We are working on the VIII equality plan in the autonomous community. Of course -- as I told you -- the basis will be the analysis of the conclusions we draw from the results of the execution of that VII Plan, from which we have already analyzed more than half of it. But in any case, the VIII Plan will always have as guiding principles, first of all, employment equality -- of which we have been talking for a long time now --, pointing out that the training of women is really the crucial point for achieving that employment equality and measures of positive discrimination in self-employment and positive discrimination measures in incentives to recruit women. Only with equal work will we achieve economic independence, which is the key to achieving the real equality of women and men in society. And it's the key to preventing and getting out of gender-based violence. And as the second basic pillar of this VIII Plan: education, awareness, awareness of society as a whole and, in particular, of children and children. Finally, we will continue to do our work from the autonomous community with the powers of the autonomous community, but we really urge the Ministry of Equality to take once and for all seriously the powers which the ministry has the legal and constitutional regulation of equality between men and women. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u238	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and 7 other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the number of squares offered by the Instituto de Seguridad e Saúde Laboral de Galicia in work risk prevention courses in the wake of the current annual training plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u239	Question by Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, as you know, today, April 28th, the world commemorates International Labour Health Safety Day, a date when it is important to promote safe and healthy work. On this day of the world we have to insist on a simple message: integrating the culture of security into the day-to-day working days can help prevent and reduce accidents and occupational diseases, as well as all kinds of damage to the working people. Certainly, Counsellor, this is a task for all of us: companies, workers, workers, public administrations and, like, social partners. We are all called on to continue cooperating in common on occupational safety and health. Let me focus today on the public administration and, in particular, on the Galician Union. Also since the German Government, we must ensure that work is safer and companies prosper. We have already had the opportunity to highlight on other occasions in this House the important role played by professionals at the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health -- the ISSGA -- during the pandemic. They were able to anticipate and developed the task of adapting at each time the measures to support productive tissue in the areas of prevention and occupational health. Today we would like to know more about the many other tasks this institute performs in an ordinary way: training. We know that the Employment and Equality Council promotes various training actions in different areas of activities, all of which are aimed at training in the prevention of work risks. We want to know more about the annual training plan promoted by ISSGA; and today, in particular, we want to know how many squares the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, dependent on the Galician Union, offers in risk prevention courses. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u241	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u242	Thank you very much. The breach of Covid-19 posed a real challenge for all public authorities responsible for ensuring safety and health at work, and ISSGA is precisely the autonomous body responsible for this. Within its 21st year business plan, which has the consensus of the entire board of directors of the institute, there is indeed the training plan, which counts in particular with the following proceedings or with the following courses. On the one hand, basic courses on the prevention of occupational risks that are intended for all workers and employers, but especially trade union representatives who have the status of pre-emptive delegate or members of the works committee, as well as employers and entrepreneurs who assume this role in their workplaces. In this sense, 5 courses from 60 hours to 1,100 people; and, given the current context, many of the courses are stopped in online mode through the EGAP platform. And by responding to the request also made by the self-employed, there are 100 specific squares for the workers on their own. On the other hand, there are much more specific courses and workshops in municipalities, workshops already for sectors and for the fallacy of certain dangerous operations in the management of machinery and also to minimize certain risks. We're talking about courses in the field of moto sawmill management, ape and cutting operations on the mountain, high-level jobs and especially for construction, prevention of risks from vertical work and courses for the prevention of risks for workers and dependent workers. Here are 40 workshops, which will benefit 500 people. And we also have to highlight the technical webinars with themes that respond to new regulations, technical novelties and, in particular, those related to the impact of the pandemic. In this sense, the risks related to the pandemic, the safe use of drones and the application of preventive work. It's 15 webinars counting on the assistance of 1,000 people. In this ISSGA formative offer, I would also like to highlight the training offer or the training actions in the prevention of occupational risks directly carried out by social agents at the expense of the Employment Council's help lines. These actions are the task of the occupational safety and health offices of the organizations with which the ISSGA maintains a constant technical relationship and constant counselling. And so I would also like to talk about ISSGA's information actions that complement these formative actions. By sectors, within the plan of 21 forest, land and sea; by risk, works with exposure to asbestos, chemical risk; by determined groups, taking into account the perspective of gender in this case. Finally, in June we are committed to quality employment, quality employment and employment with decent working conditions, and within this is essential the health of both mental and physical workers, hence the importance of all these training actions within the ISSGA Annual Plan for the Year 2021. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u243	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer and for the data you have provided. With that data we can detect that in Galicia there is a sensitive government willing to close its shoulder to collaborate on the goal of doing work in a safer environment. True, I have to admit that the ISSGA is the great stranger to the autonomous administration. Now you've just given the data from a wide catalogue, and I have to admit that ISSGA does a great job, a work that you don't know much, so I think we have an obligation as public representatives to put into value that very important work you do. Because we're talking about most of the cases in different sectors, but above all we're talking about safety at work and that's at least important. Therefore, I would like to ask you a question, Madam Counsellor, and in this sense I would like you to confirm to us whether there are any training measures in the specific field of risks arising from the moment we are living, from the moment of Covid-19. For my part, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u245	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Close the question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u246	Thank you very much. He spoke, Mr. Balsairo, of the World Day of Safety and Health at Work, which we actually commemorated, and the International Labour Organization chose this year as a motto: To anticipate the crisis, prepare and respond, to invest today in resilient safety and health systems at work. There are two issues here, one is resilience and the other is prevention, which are key words precisely in safety and health in the workplace at this particular moment of Covid. The Employment and Equality Council and the ISSGA in the case it occupies us and wants to incorporate this vanguard vision, that vision of the future in occupational safety and health, and therefore takes into account principles such as social dialogue, scientific or technical evidence and the priority of health throughout the population and, in particular, workers in this field. This is where the ISSGA business plan specifically covers the training plan which, as I say, has specifically adapted to Covid's specific risks. But I would also like to point out that ISSGA counts precisely to advise you on the issue of the pandemic with a newly created unit, which is the covid-19 reference unit, through which we are pushing several researches of diseases contracted in the professional environment, as well as the improvement of health areas in the workplace, all of this in relation to both physical and psychosocial risks due to the pandemic in the workplace. Not only for the immediate needs that we now have caused by Covid, but also for the approach of other issues arising from settlement and emerging new work dynamics but which have surely arrived to remain, as can be teleworking, the digitization of business processes or the general depersonalization of labour relations. I would also like to point out, in addition to this reference unit, that this same year we are also working together with social agents in the investigation of labor deficiency and in the design of informational actions aimed at combating the causes and origin of these labor losses. Finally, this year 21 I think the ISSGA has been at the height, the height, of course generally, of the struggle for safety and health at work, but especially at this difficult moment, as is Covid, both in prevention, both in health safety and above all -- so you asked -- for training in these areas, which is vital for the safety and health to remain in the productive fabric of our autonomous community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u247	Thank you, Counselor. Asked by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the evaluation made by the Galician Board of events in the Land Rober program issued by the TVG on April 8, 2021.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u248	Thank you, President. We'll talk later about Save me Deluxe from the Welshman. On 8 April, Counselor, we experienced what was probably one of the most boisterous, most regrettable and most unacceptable moments that at least some of us had the opportunity to live in the public media in our country. In full prime team, at the moment of the highest audience and the hand of one of the channel's star programs, we witnessed thousands of people in this country as the private life of an anonymous person, a person who was sitting in the audience, who had not given his consent at all, as his private life was used as a commodity, violating his privacy. We saw how they used it as bait throughout the program to feed the audience and how they pressed it to the full program crying. We have seen the absolute lack of gender perspective and above all also the absolute lack of the least professional ethics. And as they banalized on prime time, on public television in this country, macho behaviors under the cloak, once again, of that supposed romantic love which is not such. What happened in the Land Rober program, counselor, is very serious. It's in any media, but even more on a public television that we pay all the Galicians and all the Greeks. This country and the people we live and work on, we don't pay more than 100 million euros a year to fund telex. Because invading a person's privacy to create television content is televised, talking about a man's right to recover his girlfriend is machoism; pressing a woman to cry so she can accept to see who refuses to see it is Machism and it's, doing it on television, telex. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The Land Rober program, the producer, the people who participated in its production, but also and above all the Galician Public Radio and Television Corporation have breached the recommendations of the Board of Directors of its own corporation, the equality laws that have been in force for over a decade in our country, the deontological codes of its own profession. And it's not surprising -- it must be said -- when CRTVG has been breaking its own law for more than a decade in an obscene way, with a general manager standing on his fingers denying workers' rights under the Professional Statute and the Information Council, and without a plan of equality, as required by the Law on Equality at Work. Well, like the Galician Union, because you don't have the plan that requires the law for 14 years. [[Applause]] We believe from the BNG that it doesn't come up with apologizing, we demand it, it's good that it has done it, but it doesn't come up with apologizing. This can't happen like anecdote and what it requires is a reflection, today what we want to know is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u250	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. The commitment of the Galician Union to the fight against gender-based violence is absolute, I think there are no doubts and no exceptions. I mean, any kind of masquerade, any one, is damnable proceeding from anywhere. It's undeniable that the program you're referring to has been totally ignored. This is undeniable and I couldn't recognize a supposed case of control over a woman, that's right. I won't be the one who came here to justify the obvious mistake he made. I'm not going into nuances either. Situations like this must not occur under any concept, all public and private media must have self-regulation mechanisms, performance patterns that avoid episodes like what we're talking about. If we value the apology -- I think sincere -- explicit, immediate from both the Space Presenter and the Corporation's own producer, but we demand that all cautions be stretched out because these kinds of facts can never be repeated again. Having said this, it is no longer worth recalling Law 9/2011, of Galician audiovisual media, where it is expressly pointed out that the Radio and Television Corporation enjoys autonomy in its management and acts independently functionally with respect to the Government and the General Administration of the Autonomous Community. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, that's right, it's law, it's law. [[Murmurs.]] Well, it is up to the Director-General to set the programming criteria and, therefore, what happened in the program, as has happened, it is up to the Director-General of the Corporation to offer their explanations, which he will do, and will do so in the control committee that you know is planned in this very Parliament within two days. Ask the German Government. The demonstration of the German Government and the Council of Equality has just given it. The German Government also discussed the subject in the relevant bodies, the General Secretariat of Equality convened a meeting of the Advisory Committee on the Control of Non-Sexist Advertising, which is within the Galego Monitoring Centre for Gender Violence on Friday, 16 April. The complaints made by different organizations were taken into account, the corporate communiqués were read by the producer and, in conclusion, the need to continue to focus on training in the field of awareness-raising and fight against the violence of media professionals and advertising agencies. This is the framework which also marks the State Covenant against Gender Violence, to establish precisely training for professionals. In view of the models that seek to subject certain public or private media to certain elements of control, the Galician Union is not suspicious of that. We defend independence, freedom of the media and develop its activity without censorship and interference. From the council, we are carrying out a high degree of involvement in the training of professionals, so the agreement with the Galician Journalists Association, a new convention that will be signed precisely with the schools of journalists aiming to achieve the training of professionals in the prevention and awareness-raising of society against gender violence. At the moment, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u251	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u252	Thank you, President. That's for some questions. On the independence and objectivity and impartiality of the public media, I've already laughed, I've already laughed. [[Applause]] If you believe it, for it's great, but about the degree of fulfillment of what it puts on and it has that Public Audiovisual Media Act of 2011 also puts a lot of other things that have been going on through the lining, over the course of the triumph over ten years. He says the CEO has to be elected by 2/3 of this House, he's fingered and extended sine die because you've made him a babysitter in a 2016 Budget Accompanying Act. He also says that professionals have the right to have a professional status and a board of informants for ten years now that they've been denied it. Or he also says, among other things, that you, the Galician Union, should create an audiovisual authority that will also be seen by the external control of the corporation. That's what the law says, too, for more than ten years, it's not done and nobody cares. [[Applause]] And then whoever says breaking the law is the Block. No, we'll say it, you practice it directly. And just one more reflection about what happened on April 8 in the Land Rober. It's not neglected, it's not a mistake, it's not an anecdote, it's the symptom that something goes wrong and goes wrong when it becomes social life, intimate life, the personal life of people in merchandise to generate television content, and that's indeed the same thing as the ones mentioned earlier. And that's exactly the drift on which CRTVG is installed. In a process, I'm allowed, of absolute media security of this country's public audiovisual media. That's what happens, a program that was also not live, that was recorded, and that was, as far as we know, edited to prevent the live and live release of the images of how this lord ended up entering the plate after he broke down and made a person cry who didn't even know or give his consent for anything. [[Applause]] We have to keep working, actually, but you've been there for 12 years, there are things that should already be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close this question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u254	The German Government's view of macho violence, I'd say it before, is obvious, but of course, we reject male violence, any discrimination of women and men, any kind of sexism, whoever does it, said it before. And I emphasize this because your party, the party that calls for the resignation of the director of the Galician Radio Television Corporation by the content of a program, the 8th Land Rober, that same party and practically on the same dates, will remind you that the president of the parliament, not your own employee, the president of the parliament himself is addressed to a Member in a despective and machist way, and making a series of comments that I will certainly not repeat here. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, you and no one from your party are not to ask for the resignation of the president of the Lugo Deputy, is that this is not it, is that they continue to support the Government of the Lugo Deputy. This would certainly be consistent, if it were a commitment to equality. It's just that they don't publicly say it -- I'm saying here that the behavior, that the program is inappropriate and that I value the excuses -- is that you continue to support the Government in that deputy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As an advisor, I think there's only one way to address this matter and it's not asking for resignation, it's leaving aside that biased approach that you have. The focus of the fight against gender equality is to continue to raise awareness, to continue to educate, to continue to manifest things, to continue to deepen training and to continue to insist over and over again, as often as necessary. That's why I think the really important thing is the work that we can do among all of us, and the first point is to put aside these partisan interests, is to put aside that short-sightedness, is to put aside the career of seeing who is more feminist than all of us. Then they won't find me there and they won't find the German Government. We have of course that the struggle for equality is a struggle for society and we have to win as a society, we don't have to win one party against another to see who says it's the highest feminist. I'm sure at the bottom you agree with this, that at the bottom your party agrees to this. We don't lose a minute in diverting ourselves from that common goal, we all agree on it, and equality I think it deserves more height of look on the part of all of us. And there they will find this advisor and there they will find the German Government. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u255	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the reasons for the evolution presented by the UCI of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense and the closure of surgeons to convert them into spaces for that purpose instead of establishing a stable reinforcement throughout the pandemic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u256	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, this political organization has high regard always against machismo, so several Members of this Parliament, even the national spokesperson himself, condemned this event that you now want to stretch to the last moment in an absolutely unworthy exercise on the part of those who support a president of parliament, other Members to whom we all hear blackmailing sex for work. [[Applause]] So less lessons in this sense. [[Applause]] And going to the question, which is about our public health, which is also something very important, from the Galego Nationalist Block, Counsellor, you know that we have manifested in this crisis on several occasions our concern about the care capacity of the Ourense Hospital Complex and its evolution during the pandemic, because there were important needs that we understand they were predictable at a given time of the pandemic and that you have spared efforts to assist them, falling once again at the overcost of the staff who are clearly already exhausted at these times and to whom we cannot ask for more. In the second strike, for example, we saw that in October patients were already moving to other hospitals in Galicia, operations were cancelled at the CHUO, and in November surgery was closed to enable more ICU beds, 9 in this case. On the third strike, we saw the same thing happen. In January, patients were transferred to other hospitals, and in February, operations were cancelled again, and surgery was also closed to open more ICU beds. It's really hard to understand, Mr. Comesaña, that in a hospital complex that in both the old and the new building has spaces that are in use, that are empty, that you have to close our surgery every time more UCI beds are needed. That's really, frankly, the only way out. We think that shows a lack of planning, a lack of staff and also a lack of means. So both the BNG and the collective of workers and hospital workers, we've been asking in these months many times for the UCI beds to be expanded in a stable way, as well as staff. So when they announced a few days ago the expansion of this service, a priori seemed a good news for which I should bless the Board, but the problem came when we saw the little letter, when we saw that with the alibi of the works they were going to do was also closing up to 22 hospital beds that were strengthening areas as needed as internal and cardiology. And the question is, do we want 8 more ICU beds? Of course, BNG wants that ICU to be expanded, staff want that ICU to be extended, but not in exchange for closing hospital beds. So the explanation we ask you today is why this is going to develop in this way; and we also ask you for a correction, that you go ahead with the improvement of the ICU, of course, but that doesn't involve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u258	...lost or personal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u259	Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u260	Good afternoon, president and gentlemen. Madam Presas, as you know, the University Hospital of Ourense took on critical patients in the whole area of Ourense, both in the district of Valdeorras and in the district of Verín and in the one of Ourense itself. And, of course, by putting in the devices necessary for this purpose. In fact, the population that serves Ourense's residence is the oldest in our entire autonomous community, where this characteristic of our population pyramid puts us in the second place in Spain, only behind Castela and León. Still, the Greek health system was able to endure three vacancies in an unprecedented pandemic, the third most virulent wave. And also from Ourense, they managed all the resources available to the Health Council to provide the orensans with the best possible health care. With regard specifically to the management of ICU, it should be noted that Galicia was at all times communities with the lowest percentage of occupied ICU beds; even today we are the second autonomous community behind Murcia only in availability, with which this is supposed to affect viruses in the autonomous community and also in available resources. The CHOU specifically has 22 beds of ICU, 14 of REA and 20 of URPA, which in different combinations allowed to assume critical patients in the area while maintaining surgical activity as far as possible. In the first wave of the pandemic, the Contingency Plan established that positive critical patients occupied the URPA in an open-label ICU model by preserving ICU and REA for patients with intensive care needs, both medical and surgical. After that first strike was completed and after listening to the professionals of the union units and organizations, an ICU action was involved, which allowed the number of boxing closed, so that in the following waves patients entered the ICU boxing and from the sixth patient had already passed to REA. According to the evolution of the pandemic, and by principle of prudence besides and to avoid compromising posciurgical beds, the plan of continence was modified and kept shielded the UPRA, and that in the third phase of this contemplated opening of surgeries as a means of expansion. The three enabled surgeons provided three beds per surgery on an independent floor to the rest of the surgical activity and therefore did not affect the surgical activity. This expansion zone was not necessary in the second wave, but in the third wave and allowed us to assume with our own resources the needs generated. In fact, it was not necessary to transfer patients from ICU to other health areas; so much so, it was possible to offer beds to other health areas that were finally not needed. So the situation is too far from what you move about the ICU. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u261	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u262	Well, Counselor, he's not far away because I never said that the patients who had to enter other hospitals were from ICU. But you know as I do that before even expanding ICU beds were already derived from hospitalization patients, some even who ended up in ICU by Covid to other hospitals, that's what we meant. Look, one can understand everything and this is a pandemic that no government was prepared to manage, that's right, but the fact is that learning over a year also showed us a structural weakness, which was that we needed more UCI beds, so you're going to expand the ICU beds. We can share that and we can support it, but the question that is being put here on the table is that the price to expand these ICU beds can never be to give up hospital beds that are also needed and to give up a staff reinforcement between the nurse, assistant and the cellist that we are talking about between 22, 23, 24, 25 people, according to us hospital workers who will no longer be in the service as well. We understand that this is serious, that it is serious in a pandemic situation. And I would ask you today to commit yourself to the adoption of the ostrich strategy and even the guilt of the workers that your successor at the Ourense hospital, Mr. Rubial, is applying these days, because you have a commitment that there will be no reduction in hospital beds while the works are done, and that there will be an extension of ICU, because the workers and the workers of Ourense and the ores and the oresans what they need are the two things, not that to enlarge ICU you will have to give up the other one. And since you're talking about contingency plans, because we've been asking you again in this House, we've been doing it in the last few months in unsuccessful writing, which send us the contingency plans of Ourense hospitals, which we've asked for. Hospitals that Ourense's actually welcomes the ICU patients and patients from all over the province, because there's neither in Verín nor in Barco this ICU service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u264	Therefore, Counselor,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u265	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. Close the question, Health Counsellor. Yes, Mrs. Presas. As I said, in spite of the pandemic and in recent months we have been working on this construction of a new ICU, we are now in that drafting of the functional plan, for what we are counting on the service professionals, not being done without their collaboration, and is also very much appreciated, and is also paralleling the drafting of the preliminary draft and the consequential demands to bid in a single way project and work. So there's a clear bet for making that ICU. That ICU, in addition, from a structural and technological improvement, is going to increase by almost 30% in number of beds, from 22 to 30. And at this point, the spaces are being restructured to free up and relocate those residential devices that will have to be affected by the expansion of this much-needed unit. As you well know, the current ICU is on the fourth floor and the natural growth space of the current ICU, once made the decision on the professional data that the plant is the fourth, it goes on to an area of hospitalization. But don't worry, we have even now 18 hospital beds pending opening on the first floor and 8 on the prison module, which at the most complex moment of the pandemic was not needed to use. Yes, it's 18 more and 8 beds in the prison module that were unused. And besides, in case it was little, we have over 200 beds available at the Infant Mother's Hospital, which are opened as soon as they are necessary. As you see, the situation of the ICU, the steps that must be taken to be able to equip it, are consistent with the professionals, obeys the functional criteria, it makes sense to build this new ICU in the nearby space, near where the current ICU is, there is no danger with the jobs. Obviously, if you need hospital beds, of course, they'll be equipped with the necessary staff, and here's the question of how I'm going to open, how I'm going to remove those beds right where the ICU is to do the new ICU's work, they're going to lose external jobs. Honestly, I'd almost say it's absurd to propose that. What are we going to do? Will the needs of hospital beds disappear to send people to their homes at the same time? It can't be. If you need hospital beds, where will you be? Well, you don't seem to like it, but those 18 first floor beds that have been closed for more than a year by works are there to recover, and, as I say, there are 200 beds in the Infantry. So I insist that the situation of the ICU and the works of the ICU are the ones I just told you about, and I think we need to keep moving forward, we are going to have a proper ICU to adapt, of course, also to the new need derived not only from the pandemic, but from all the efforts we're just making so that the citizens of Ourense don't have to go to other units, for example, to do hemodynamics, that requires more UCI beds, they're going to equip themselves with this new unit and of course the situation, as I say, I think it's reasonable, and there's no problem that jobs or of course UCI posts are lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u266	Thank you, Counselor. We had a question pending, and we have to solve it, because the normal thing is, before the end of the plenary, we solved this. It is in particular about the intervention which has taken place in this House. I'm not going into the first part, the first part, because here the presidents have autonomy, and I'm not going into it. I was at the moment we were making the change, I went in and therefore I was in already, though perhaps I wasn't attentive enough, but if I have the exact transcription of what happened, and I'm going to read it, I'm going to read it, Mr. Orange, and I want you to then make your own valuation to which I'm going to ask you. It says exactly: "I don't get involved in the organizational issues of the People's Party, I get involved in their caciquism, nepotism and corruption." I ask you if this removes him, because he heeds the dignity of a group. Give a voice to Mr. Aranguena's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u267	Mr. President, if you listen to me... yes, I wouldn't have the least problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u268	And I don't hear him well. I don't hear him well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u269	I say I wouldn't have the slightest problem with withdrawing any allusion that could result in any offensive mode for anyone ever and when the same raffle was applied in this House to all groups, because the things that are heard to speak here in the Vox section of the People's Party of Galicia are far above what you just mentioned. For example, I would like to give you an example of what a member of the People's Party said last week that a wooden box was being prepared for a fellow member of my parliamentary group. And, therefore, and that kind of expression is used, and much more dangerous and serious expressions are constantly used.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u270	Well, I ask you, for the sake of this, I will try to avoid anyone... yes, yes, this is not easy sometimes, but that's why I ask for the cooperation of all of you. I will strive not to have this cross that can undermine or harm the dignity of the groups. And now I ask you if you can withdraw this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u271	No, for a matter of equity, of strict fairness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-04-28-DSPG034.u272	Well, then silence! I'll have to be respectful of parliamentary times and regulatory times, I'll never do anything that goes against all that, but, well, I collect your valuable contribution to parliamentary courtesy. All right, get the session up.
