ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u1	Good morning. We resumed the session with questions for the reply of the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the plan of the Galician Union to reactivate the economy by generating employment after data from the First Quarter Active Population Survey Mr. Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. The Greeks and the Greeks are living in a crisis situation of enormous complexity and we can't put on a sale to avoid recognizing the evil that so many families are experiencing in our country. Four headlines these days can be very eloquent. "The third wave of Covid bars 21,000 jobs in Galicia and raises the youth unemployment rate to 37%. The Galician is the community that recorded the greatest increase in unemployment in the first quarter, 11% more. Galicia heads the rise of unemployment in the first quarter. More than 12,000 Galician businesses have closed or fired their entire staff during the pandemic. The pandemic has taken over 2,200 autonomous businesses in Galicia, an average of 25 closures a day." And so we have to recognize the difficulties in which the Greek economy is experiencing, because the strategy of "Save Christmas" has failed, has led to a third wave of the virus with a great deal of gravity that has had its economic effects. And it's true that as we get past that third wave in April and now in May, we're heading back to the worst scenario, but we have to take the necessary steps, we can't be with our arms fallen in the greatest crisis. The vaccine is the main measure also for economic reactivation, and when we move towards 70% of the Galician and yellow people vaccinated this summer, we are also laying the groundwork for that economic reactivation. But in addition to vaccines, it is necessary to take economic measures, to have a plan of measures to reactivate the economy of our country, which is experiencing a very fat economic crisis, a crisis in the service sector, especially in the hostel, in tourism; a crisis in the rural world; an industrial crisis, with problems in Alcoa, with the future of Ence, with Alu Iberica, with the naval sector, with Barreras or Vulcano waiting for you to go, Mr Feijóo, with problems throughout Ferrolterra, where they create a pact of state that is not concrete and that is still a letter to the Magi. Employment problems in so many sectors, in the bank, in H, in Adolfo Domínguez, ERTE in Repsol... also problems in collective bargaining with cleaning workers looking for a solution and an agreement worthy of their living conditions in the province of Coruña. And so action must be taken. Mr. Feijóo, you're out of the game, you're out in economic policy, and we need to take measures to support an economy that is very bad. And don't laugh at the People's Party bench, have empathy for the unemployed, for the women who leave behind, for the young people and take action. It's time to use the funds at your disposal, more than 1,200 million in the budgets of the Union in an extraordinary way, 200 million in direct aid that will be distributed from the Government of Spain. If they don't know what to do with money, put them in the hands of the citizens, the municipalities, the most affected and make economic politics. And I want to tell you, Mr Feijóo, that it is time to take action, it is time to opt for a business reopening plan that they closed during the pandemic, it is time to adopt a plan to support women so that they will not get out of this crisis and a plan to support employment for the young people of Greece, who are still trying to live in this country. And that's why we have to work, which has the hand held to profile priorities for the Next Generation funds, after they've moved from 7 to 104, to 354 projects, projects that need to have a consensus, a balance and a priority, and that have to count on women. And I want to ask you, Mr. Feijóo, to which you are waiting to incorporate women into the board of directors of public-private society that will manage or guide the Next Generation. Aren't there nine women in Galicia, like there are nine men, so they're sitting on that board of directors? [[Applause]] When the funds of Next Generation fight for real equality between men and women, why does the president of the Union and the Government of Galicia despise women and do not count on them to incorporate them into a board of directors, on an equal footing, to give parity, to give equality? Count on women, too, to guide economic reactivation,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u3	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u4	...and get to work. We can't miss out on a historic opportunity and the Galician Union is still holding the fallen arms without orientation. Either we put ourselves all to this, or the fall will be deeper, deeper, and the reactivation, insufficient with so many families that don't reach the end of the month. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u5	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, I don't think this question and its formulation and development should be an example of guidance. I don't know exactly what you're asking, I'm going to try to move it according to what you formally ask. Look, Your Honor, I know you don't accept advice, but whoever proposed to you, you should take care of this proposal. Mr. Caballero, you are currently the most responsible of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in Galicia; indeed, you are the most responsible of that party that closes The Bridges, that closes Meirama and that closes Gamesa. He's the most responsible of that party that doesn't even meet state-owned companies like Navantia, and there's no workload. He's responsible for looking for trouble and not solving any problems. It's the maximum responsibility that 5,000 people are currently having enough difficulty knowing if they keep their jobs, I mean electrointensives and, in a named way, Alcoa. He's responsible for closing Ence, and he comes here saying there's problems in Ence and Navantia and Alcoa. You're just a politician of a generation you still don't know, which is the generation of science-fiction. You belong to a party that creates problems and then throws the problems away from the others. Well, it's very surprising. You're worried about the EPA in the first quarter of the year 2021, but it doesn't speak for anything about the EPA last year or the EPA in the fourth quarter of 2020. You're worried about the EPA in the first quarter, but you don't know that for the last 12 months Galicia is the autonomous community where unemployment has been the worst. It's a very surprising thing. You're talking about a quarter survey, but it's not to mention that in the last 12 months Galicia has dropped unemployment in more than 20,000 people and has created more than 27,000 affiliates, and it's the autonomous community with the highest unemployment rate in Spain in the last year, and you're here talking about a quarter EPA. Well, you keep talking about trimesters. Look, Your Honor, the economy in Galicia, up to the pandemic, is an economy that worked and worked quite intensely. We've been growing in exports for five years, we've been growing in gross domestic product, we've been reducing unemployment for five years and increasing memberships to Social Security. But if you want to take the pandemic year, let's believe again that Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that best resists the pandemic. GDP fell by 2 points less than in the average of Spain, the industrial production index rose by 2.3 points more than the average of Spain, sales of retail trade rose by more than in the average of Spain. It has increased the number of exporting companies, we were once again one of the few autonomous communities with a positive commercial balance between imports and exports. We led the fall in unemployment of the last year. Your Honor, we are creating jobs again, and it turns out that we now have a number of problems in the economy that you seem to be unaware of, that you don't even live in a country called Spain, ruled by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. We are the third community with the lowest GDP debt in all of Spain, we are the community that most invests in its budget and we are the community that best paid throughout the year 2020 during the pandemic in half of the time that, for example, the General Government of the State. Therefore, Mr. Knight, you should be a little more prudent and should be a little more consistent. You come here proposing I don't know how many things, but when you rule in the central government, you're the only goal of creating an industrial crisis in Galicia of 16,000 jobs. That's why, Mr. Knight, I ask you to be a little cautious, a little consistent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u8	...and above all a little realistic. Don't come to do politics-fiction and think that Galicia's problem is to rule what the Greeks wanted to rule. No, Your Honor. We have better economic data, better employment data, better growth data, better export data, better trade balance data, better industrial production data. We have an economy that is resisting the crisis better than in the middle of Spain, and on economic policies, tax policies, fiscal policies and labour policies, please a member of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party cannot give any class in the Galician Parliament. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u10	Mr President, you say that the data from the first quarter of the EPA this year are not representative of the whole trend. The first data this year are devastating to the Galician economy in terms of employment, the worst in any other community. A third wave that hit very seriously, but if you want to see the trend, in 2009 the population occupied in EPA in Galicia, 1,156,000 people. Before the pandemic, before the pandemic came, 1,096,000. That is your balance before the pandemic, and now obviously the occupied population has fallen with this crisis that we are living in. If you want to continue living in the worlds of Yupi, if you want to keep recreating in that fiction in which Galicia says that Galicia is in an optimal situation, if you want to forget about the young and young people who can't make their life; if you want to forget about the women who leave this crisis; if you want to forget about the sectors affected by the pandemic, there you and your responsibility, Mr Feijóo! You tell the Galicians and the Greeks that the situation in Galicia is idyllic, that we are much better than any community doesn't believe it, the Roll of the People's Party can't be climbed into a pedestal, it has to touch the country, the land, it has to be on foot in Galicia to know about so many difficulties. [[Applause]] I would like, Mr. Feijóo, to be the most responsible of what is happening in the Greek economy, but the most responsible is you, because you have legitimacy and most to rule, and where there is an industrial crisis in Galicia, the responsibility is the president of the Greeks and the Greeks; where there is more unemployment the responsibility is the president of the Greeks and the Greeks; where there are problems in the service sector, the responsibility is yours. Don't play an inverting role, because the papers are yours and the responsibility of ruling is yours too. [[Applause]] You, Mr Feijó, as regards economic policy, have no credibility. You don't have credibility because what you're saying is to diagnose a fictional reality, a reality where PP can live, but not where the Greeks and the Greeks live. And today you have to make decisions. Your credibility, Mr. Feijóo, when you talk about Galician economy is the same thing you have when you talk about the state of alarm, which would be devastating, that during these six months would be the worst, and that now you try to pose it as a solution to the country. He has no credibility, Mr. Feijóo, when he talks about the state of alarm, when he talks about economics or when he has his health adviser yesterday recriminalizing the triumphalism of the Spanish Government, while you start talking about what we're going to be in the summer without masks. They agree with the People's Party, but they solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] There are measures to take, there are funds to govern, there is a way to reactivate the economy, and when I see the European projects that you have taken to the Board of Trustees, I see that there is no direction. You have approved 354 projects in a Council of the Union which has no validity, which has the same force as if approved by a community of neighbours...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u12	...in any community of Galician owners, because they don't have that disposition, but especially because they lack guidance. Because they incorporate projects, for example, for 700 million euros to make public hospitals that already have to be made and what needs to be done, and that will count on the responsibility of the PSdEG to build them. But you're saying, we don't know what to do with the European funds in Galicia, we don't know how to reactivate the economy, we don't know how to use the funds to boost employment, and we prefer to devote them to projects that were already under way and committed to try to make cash and not solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, Mr Feijóo [[Applause]] It's time to get to work. You've got the tendon hand of the PSdeG, but you have to activate the economy and get out of the fictitious world to talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u13	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Your time is up. Gentlemen, your time is up, thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[Applause]] Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u14	Thank you, President. I understand that you would like to be the highest political responsibility in Galicia, understanding it perfectly, but for now you are Galicia's minority force. So, Your Honor, when you insist and insist on manipulating reality, speaking of a quarter of the EPA, not knowing everything that goes from year to year on the registered unemployment, or on EPA, or on affiliations to Social Security, or on industrial production, or on exports, you just come here, as it is natural, to see if anyone, by manipulating certain issues, can come to some surprising conclusion. Look, Your Honor, you want to talk about EPA, let's talk about EPA. According to EPA, unemployment in Spain is 16%; Galicia is 13%. If we talk about registered unemployment in Spain in the last 12 months, the unemployment rate has risen by 2%, and Galicia has dropped by 10.9%, it is the autonomous community with the highest unemployment rate in Spain. As you had posed the question before you knew the unemployment data, it turns out you're not even able to redirect the question so as not to make the ridiculous thing as you just did. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling you from maximum cordiality, sometimes it happens; but what you can't come here is that Galicia is the worst autonomous community when Galicia has the best unemployment data from all over Spain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That doesn't make any sense, Your Honor. [[Applause]] The full-time, undefined employees and households with all active and busy members, Galicia has better data than the rest of Spain; 100% active homes, 77% in Spain and 80.8% in Galicia. [[Applause]] You take what you want, you take the indicator you consider appropriate. Look, Your Honor, talk about the Next Generation funds that this is a community of neighbors, but are you really serious? Are you serious about the fact that the work of the committee of experts, the work of the main companies in Greece, the work of one year of the civil society in Galicia is a community of neighbors? Look, Your Honor, a little respect for the work of others and a little humility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u16	...for lack of concretion of his works.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u17	Mr. Orange, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u18	You care about families and people who can't make it to the end of the month. And what's the proposal? Lifting the diesel tax, raising the registration tax? Leave income reductions without effect to people who contribute together? The proposal is to raise the reduced VAT? The proposal is, ladies and gentlemen, to raise all taxes with the highest tax rate to say that you care about middle and lower classes? Can you really get more cynicism than you're thinking here? Can you really propose an economic policy that consists of, at this moment of greater unemployment, of the greatest crisis, is the greatest increase in taxes? And deny it! Double irresponsibility, Your Honor. Europe tells him he's going to be taxed and here they're wrong. Mr. Knight, a little respect for the truth and a little respect for the citizens. Look, a lot of leaders of the Socialist Party are worried about jobs. It gives me the opportunity they're worried about their jobs. He defends Galician jobs, regardless of whether he has to face his party. He defends a proposal of the state pact in Ferrolterra, a concrete and explicit proposal. Defendant, Your Honor, that taxes do not rise to middle and lower classes. He defends that there are no peas everywhere. Galician defense, Mr. Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u20	He will never be able to represent mostly the Greeks with this sort of absolutely contradictory ideas between himself, which is able to say something at first, in the middle of being talking about the opposite and reaching the end without knowing what he was talking about at first or in the middle. But, Mr. Knight, really, what was the question? The question you're asking me is how's work in Galicia going?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u22	I can tell you, look, Galicia's work in a deep economic crisis is better than in the middle of Spain. And from there we could continue to discuss other things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u23	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u24	The Socialist Party holds whom, Mr. Knight?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u25	Time's up, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u26	We've been here for weeks, months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u27	Your time is over, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u28	...in the Reactivation Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u29	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u30	...they weren't able to submit a single proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u31	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u32	We're waiting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u33	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u34	...we want to adopt in the reactivating committee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u36	...with you or without you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u37	Mr. President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u38	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Union of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, about the measures to be taken by the Galician Union in the face of the industrial crisis and the loss of employment that Galicia is experiencing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u39	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u40	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies. Without industry there is no future, it is an undeniable truth that they proclaim thousands of workers in the streets in defense of a bloody industrial sector. Endesa, Meirama, Siemens Gamesa, Poligal, Isobat, Woods Churches, Vulcan, Barreras, Navantia, Alcoa, Alu Iberian, Seal, Tennessee, R, Lonia Textil, Adolfo Domínguez, Candido Hermida, Gabadi... are some of the industries that have closed or have difficulties. An industrial desertification that is prior to the pandemic, and it's enough to balance the last decade to have an objective X-ray. Mr Feijóo, your industrial legacy is dramatic, leaves a sector in the ICU, thousands of jobs lost and thousands of businesses destroyed. Since sitting on the board, Galicia has lost 27,200 jobs in the sector and has shut down 2,947 industries, it's dramatic! 2,947 closed industries and 27,200 lost jobs, that's the service sheet with the industrial sector in this country. [[Applause]] How can we not then have new people emigranting in the face of the lack of opportunities that leaves their government? A disaster without palliatives that is ruining entire regions and which has two main causes, their lack of industrial policy and their inability to defend Galicia's interests before and after. He's been in charge for twelve years and the most prominent of his industry curriculum is Pemex's fiasco, crack menu, Mr. Feijóo! He wasn't able to push any project of scope, nor was he able to save any industry. A good ruler has the ability to anticipate problems and seek solutions, but you're not a good ruler, he's just a good propagandist. Thousands of jobs at risk or lost in Endesa, Meirama, Siemens Gamesa, Vulcan, Barreras, Navantia, Seal, Alu Iberica, Alcoa... and while the president of the board is hand-crossed and doing what's his specialty, because when there's a problem you're not looking for a solution, you're just looking for someone to blame. And we can't go on like this; urgent, Mr. Feijóo, a change of course for Galicia to win industrial pulse. [[Applause]] The pandemic reminded us that a country without industry is more vulnerable not only from an economic point of view, but also from a health point of view. So stop throwing balloons out and putting up the batteries, European recovery funds are an opportunity to put in place a new industrial model for the future within an energy transition that has to be fair. And that's why I ask you, Mr Feijóo, what measures does your Government have to take to curb the industrial sanctuaries that this country lives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, all the companies you just mentioned, I was commenting on the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party spokesperson, each and every one of them in my reply. Looks like you had the question prepared, too. Putting the responsibility of this Government to close The Bridges, Meirama and Gamesa is an act of cynicism that increases more easily every 15 days. The only political force that is against the closure of the Bridges is the People's Party of Galicia. Putting the responsibility on this government that Navantia doesn't have its workload is a very surprising thing on the part of BNG. The BNG that doesn't want to make military ships in Navantia, and we want to make the frigates and a bridge ship. You just come here and try to say that we are like the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u43	Mr. Dry, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u44	Look, to say that here the problem is Alcoa, when we've been defending Alcoa for twelve consecutive years with all the governments of Zapatero, Rajoy and Sánchez, it's a very surprising thing, Your Honor. That's right, to shut up about the closure of Ence, that's of course BNG is a specialist about it. But -- I repeat again, Your Honor -- of course I'm concerned about my country's economic situation, I'm doing nothing but trying to work for it; but I'm not taking responsibility for decisions that are not ours. And I'm not going to accept, Mrs. Pontón, that you -- that you rule with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party -- that you do something in Parliament and not something else. Look, Mrs. Pontón, the leaders of the industrial situation in Galicia that affects 16,500 jobs are the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the BNG -- by this order --. And of course I'm going to keep it and I'm gonna keep it up and I'm gonna keep defending it and I'm gonna keep defending the country's jobs, whether they're from Alcoa, Cence or Bridges. Your Honor, you can't come here to say that there are a number of companies that you just mentioned are about to close, that there is no responsibility! [[Applause]] Check again the companies you just said are about to close or with serious problems some of them, that irresponsibility! Look, Your Honor, Galicia is a specialized economy in industry and its weight is around 16%, almost two points more than the national average. We have examples of success, I know that you don't like the examples of success, because you consider that to be the capital. When industry goes well it's the capital and when it's bad it's Mr. Feijóo's fault. See, by 2020 the value generated by the industry was 1 point less than in the average of Spain, the industrial production index rose by 3.5 and in Spain by 1.2. And so, Your Honor, the industrial employment of what you're talking about, if you want to take the whole pandemic, it turns out that industrial employment in Galicia when the pandemic started was at 143,000 people and now it's at 141,628. This is the data, Mrs. Pontón. That's why we're going to pursue industrial policies by defending industry without apriorisms, without ideologies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u46	...closed. We're going to defend the forest industry, we're going to defend the naval industry -- including that of military construction -- we're going to defend the industry in Ferrolterra. We proposed a proposal, a pact, we still have no response from the BNG. Mrs. Pontón, why do you want to close Ence? Why is every time we bring in a proposal for wind energy there's a platform by county called the BNG? Why every time we want to talk about renewable industry you come here saying that we have to eliminate the fossil industry and we have to go through the renewable industry every time we want to put a wind park... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u48	...is there a platform led by the BNG? Mrs. Pontón, you once defend the country, you place the responsibility where you touch it; and please stop deceiving the Greeks, which we know how to read and write, multiply and divide. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u49	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u50	Mr President, an act of cynicism is to come to this Parliament saying that the most responsible of the Galician Union has nothing to do with the industrial crisis that this country is experiencing. [[Applause]] And, look, if that's what he has to say to the Greeks and the Greeks, the most useful thing he can do for Galicia is to close his office and go home, because this country needs a president who is responsible for his industry and not a president who throws balloons out. [[Applause]] Because indeed, Mr. Feijóo, I don't know if you are aware that these statements are a complete amendment to the work of your Government and, of course, the recognition of your political inability to save industry and give this country a future horizon. We already know that its industrial policy consists of rotational doors and, on the other hand, defends that Ence continues to contaminate Pontevedra's stream. It has a future if you change your location, but stop being responsible for mortgageting the future of a whole territory and work in the direction of that transfer instead of criticizing BNG and telling us that the fault of what's happening in the country is ours, when you're sitting on the board. But what kind of irresponsibility is this, Mr. Feijóo? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, look, you talked about a state pact for Ferrol. I'm the first one I have to tell you is that I'm amazed that a person who was already a member of the United Nations government in 2003 finds out now -- in 2021 -- that Ferrol has an industrial crisis like the top of a pine. It is, of course, to be amazed, Mr. Feijóo. Are you telling us about a state pact for Ferrol? All right, go ahead. And why not a state pact for the Navy? Because the future of this region is waiting for a thread, which is going to be the future depending on what happens to Alcoa. And, look, it's not about defending Alcoa, it's about defending this country's employment, because that's part of the problem, you've been defending the interests of Alcoa a long time, not the interests of the Navy. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I'd like to know, Mr. Feijóo, that you tell us when it was the last time you set foot in the Navy district, for something you're running away from that neighborhood. Perhaps, Mr. Feijóo, he's not doing what he had to do. But can we also propose a state pact for Vigo, or does it seem to you that the industrial sector of this region has no major problems? I don't know if I'm Vulcan, Barreras, or if you've ever heard of relocations in the automotive sector. We can also put in place a state pact for the Crown. I don't know if you know the problems in Xeal, Iberian Alu, Isowat... I don't know if you hear the problems of these companies. And you've already set the ideal would be a state pact for Galicia, for its industrial sector. But, look, maybe instead of press headlines, advertisements and more ads, what we need is that you exercise your powers and, to vary, try to be president of Galicia. And, look, we're proposing: meet the law of the naval sector, defend a Welsh electric tariff like Euskadi has, put in place a law to curb relocations and use European funds to get them to the small and medium-sized company...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u52	...to push... -- finished, Mr. President --...the industry of this country towards a new green, sustainable and innovative model. And I have to tell you what a real shame it is that the future of this country is right now in the hands of Abanca, Naturgy and Reganosa. I don't know when these companies, the managers of these companies, were presented to the elections to make the most important economic decision. I don't know when you voted for these managers -- by the way, all men --. It's certainly a shame that the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u54	...the most important economic decision in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u56	...you leave it in the hands of companies. It's just that we're not talking about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, your time is up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u58	...centralization, what we're talking about is a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u59	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Close this question, President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u60	I think the best part of your intervention and the most clarifier is the last part. Do you believe that industry is created, managed, protected from the public sector? Do you think cars have to be made in a joint venture in Galicia? Do you really believe that hydrogen plants or wind polygons must be property, ownership of the autonomous administration? Do you not believe that private capital is key to the investment and construction of the productive fabric of a Western democratic country? Do you, Your Honor, think Galicia's problem is that companies exist? And while Galicia's problem is that there are companies going bad? Exactly what is your proposal? Does it seem to you that we should make up our clothes and sell it in international markets? Mrs. Pontón, what is your industrial policy? What is the industrial policy of a party that has not yet awakened to the situation of the global economy and to the situation of the competitiveness of the economy? Look, in the naval industry, you're suggesting that Navantia can't make military ships; we think so. The bridge center gives you just as much as you close; we thought you couldn't unplug something that works before you plug something that doesn't work yet. And that's why the price of energy in the country is incompatible with the production of aluminum, the production of steel and the production of other industrial activities. But that doesn't matter to you. It doesn't matter whether the price of energy is incompatible with industrial production, because what you're interested in is just saying what it's about in every place to see if I get a set of support. No, Your Honor. Why are you at this time of industrial crisis, with a company that has a concession granted, it turns out that what you want is to leave that concession without effect and that 80,000 families selling wood stop selling wood, and that 5,000 people working in the forest industry don't have work, and that hundreds of trucks entering and leaving at Ence every day stop having work, and that the port of Marín doesn't have half their activity? Ladies and gentlemen, why should every time we want to make a wind park that passes environmental impact statements we have a platform with the BNG in front? Why, Your Honor, when we bring laws to Parliament, are you always not? Not to the Forest Plan, not to the Milk Sector Plan, not to the Land Leave Law. Your Honor, what is your industrial proposal? We are very interested in what your industrial proposals are. [[Murmurs.]] The 28-page document refers to 3 paragraphs. That's right, they copy some industrial proposals that are in the Next Generation funds. What is your industrial proposal, Your Honor? 65 projects, 9.500 million euros. That's the industrial proposal included in the Next Generation funds that the opposition considers a community of neighbours. Do you really think a textile fiber factory is a community of neighbors? Do you think that making and expanding a factory to produce vaccines is a proposal from a community of neighbors, don't you think that's an industrial policy? An industrial policy is not more than EUR 350 million devoted to industrial policies in the 2021 budget? Mrs. Pontón, look, in the diagnosis we can agree, there are 16,000 jobs at risk of extinction in the industrial field, and you know exactly as I do that the decisions that put at risk the 16,000 jobs are central government decisions, and you know it perfectly well. There's only one problem, you rule with the central government party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u62	And what you can't, Your Honor, is to snort and blow at the same time. Either defend the Galician industry or rule with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, decide. For now, it has always decided the same thing as BNG, which is to rule with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. With a Spanish Socialist Workers Party that is destroying jobs in the country and known by the workers of Meirama and who know it by the workers of the Bridges, and who know it by the workers of Navantia and who are perfectly aware of it by the workers of Alcoa, and who know it by the workers of Ence. Your Honor, I come here to defend the workers regardless of the ideological adscription of each of them, because I defend the Greeks and nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u64	That's what I can say and what I've been doing for 12 years, she likes it or doesn't like it, Mrs. Pontón. I'm here to defend my country, to defend Galicia, not to come here with industrial proposals that don't exist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u65	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u66	...and to say that the problem of industrial problems in companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u68	...it's the Cunta de Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u69	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u70	With all due respect, Mrs. Pontón, you decide at once...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u72	...or blow or sorb. Either be in favour of the workers or continue to rule with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u73	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u74	Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u75	Thank you. We continue with the agenda, which is non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the grants convened for the year 2021 for the creation or improvement of infrastructure in the municipalities of Galicia with a population of less than 20,000 inhabitants There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today I'm sure it might seem to you that I'm here to tell you a story, a story I'm going to title by taking out popular refreshment "what part and sharing remains with the best part." The problem is, what we bring here socialists today, what we demand is not a story, it's a reality. A reality that is given here in Galicia, which has been given in the twelve years of the People's Party's Government in Galicia, a Government elected to manage public resources, i.e. the resources that are of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, but which uses much of these public funds to benefit certain territories in which the only objective criterion of distribution is to have a Government of the People's Party. Look, the PP has been running Galicia for twelve years uninterruptedly and with most absolutes, promising again and again that it would address the financing of the local authorities in Greece. But the reality is that I prefer to continue using the form of caciquil distribution that favors the finger of those who have their own political colour. A Government which in its 2020 electoral programme expresses itself literally committed to reviewing the funding of the municipalities through the local cooperation fund, but which, as this Government always does, does. Show your commitment on paper and then stay on wet paper. Once again, promises of paper. Ladies and gentlemen, you know perfectly well that it is necessary to address a local funding law that regulates the local cooperation fund; a law that is repeatedly being demanded by the Fegamp year after year; a law that responds to the agreement taken within the Fegamp by unanimity of all political groups, also by the People's Party; a law that makes it clear the annual participation of local entities in the incomes of the autonomous community, as well as the criteria for distribution; a law that also integrates part of the annual aid and subsidies that the autonomous community is intended for local authorities. During the twelve years of the Feijóo Government in Galicia, participation in the incomes of the autonomous community through the local cooperation fund did not increase a single euro, still being, as in 2009, almost 113 million euros. While -- and I remind you again -- the Tourin government has increased by three years in almost 28 million euros. You also know that it is absolutely necessary, and also repeatedly agreed and demanded in the bosom of the Fegamp, to agree on the common rules and bases governing the existing calls for grants and aid to the municipalities. But this German Government of the People's Party is not interested either, because it distributes much of the public funds through collaborative agreements in which, as I said before, the only objective criterion of distribution is to have a Government of the People's Party, claim that as I will always support data. Well, look, these are the conventions signed by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council during the years 2019 and 2020. More than 10 million euros of public funds, public funds, of which 99 municipalities have benefited; 9 out of every 10 municipalities benefited, with a Government of the People's Party, and 9.3 out of every 10 were distributed to the Towns of the People's Party. There are 10 million euros that could well have increased the local cooperation fund in order to be able to distribute among all the Greek municipalities on equal terms. [[Applause]] And the last one shows, although probably not the last one, that way of sharing public funds on the part of the Galician Union just produced a few days ago. Well, look, on 8 March, the Environmental Council, which I referred to earlier, published an order by which it establishes grants in a non-competitive competition scheme, i.e. those which, according to the applications, are going to exhaust credit; that is the non-competitive competition; and which are intended to create or improve infrastructure in Galician municipalities with a population of less than 20,000 inhabitants, with a credit of something more than 2 million euros. A grant that in its own explanatory statement the council expresses that the purpose of these aids is to humanize the Galician villages, taking into account the socio-demographic reality of each of them, applying a new vision of our cities focused on in the future and on people, for which the Union believes that action is needed to curb depopulation by enhancing infrastructure and services. Finally, by improving the well-being and quality of life of its population. What happens is that the People's Party must think that not all Welsh villages deserve a treatment that is similar and adapted to their reality, or that the well-being and quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks is not the same depending on the political colour of the municipality where they live. It turns out that this call is published in the DOG on 8 March, the deadline for submission is open on 9 a.m. 00.00.01 and the credits are exhausted on 9 March at 00.09.43. That is, in 9 minutes and 43 seconds, the appropriations for this grant are exhausted. The truth is, at least it might be curious, because to request this approach, you have to present documentation and cover printed on a platform. And, look, I'm going to show you in a very graphical way the different results, when the summons are in competitive competition, that is, all the municipalities can present for a period of time and then a priority is made, or when it's in non-competitive competition, as in this case, for example, that as I said before is in order of entry and even exhausting the assigned credits. Well, look, this is the graph -- as a partner says, the cheeses -- of the non-competitive competition grant in 2018. This year, the credits were also exhausted in 12 minutes and 18 seconds, i.e. it took 3 minutes longer than this 2021 call to exhaust the credits. Well, in this call for 2018, which, by the way, is nearly twice as much as when it is in competitive competition, because more than four million euros for 19 municipalities, 8 out of every ten municipalities are from the People's Party; 8.3 out of every 10 euros are for councils with governments from the People's Party. While when grants are in competitive competition, for example in 2019 -- I don't know if it looks good, but I think it's pretty graphic the difference -- because it turns out that first they're less money, 2.7 million euros for 35 municipalities, they're also more municipalities, and it turns out that five out of every ten municipalities here are the People's Party, and five out of every ten euros are for municipalities with governments of the People's Party. So the difference is quite graphic and, in addition, it adapts more to the political reality of the existing councils governed in Galicia by the different political parties. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in this case I address all Members and Members, be brave and, if they are really municipalists, as you often say in this gallery, vote in favour of this GNP. Among all of us we will end up with this way of sharing the public funds that must serve to improve the lives of all and all of the Greeks. And, look, we're asking for something as simple as that all the grants called by the Autonomous Administration directed to the municipalities are in a competitive competition regime, with clear, objective criteria, and previously consensual to the Fegamp. Let a five-year plan be drawn up in the first half of this year to carry out targeted actions, as it said, in this call for grants to curb depopulation, boosting infrastructure and services and, ultimately, improving the well-being and quality of life of its population, for all the Greeks and for all the Greeks in municipalities with populations of less than 20,000 inhabitants. A plan, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a plan not a finger-sharing of the funds that are all of them. Finally, we are asking Parliament to submit a report of the applications submitted by order of arrival and of the documentation submitted by each of the requesting municipalities. Look, we socialists once again reject the system of distribution to the funds of the Galician Union, a caciquil system that does not respect local autonomy, which is not based on a plan of territorial rebalancing of Galician territory, which does not seek basic coverage of services for the entire citizenship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u78	... irrespective of where they live -- finished already --, that they do not comply with the principles of transparency and objectivity enshrined in the law of transparency and good governance of Galicia, and that they do not respect the law of Galicia grants. I hope you vote in favour. We are even willing, although no amendments have been tabled, to reach an agreement, but the important thing is that they decide whether they agree with municipalism and whether they agree with their autonomy or not, and on your behalf.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Iago Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Allow me an incision. In the past plenary session, virtually all of the people who passed through this rostrum referred to Ourense. For a moment I thought Ourense was worried, nothing to do with it. I mean, today in this Ourense Plenary, it doesn't matter for anything and we continue in the same situation, we still have no budgets, we continue without municipal planning, we continue with all the concessions in precarious, we continue to pursue culture and the cultural sector, but it seems like we've gone through fashion and this doesn't matter. The only thing that mattered to the People's Party were two things: returning the honor to Jacome, I think the Pyroman fireman who made these demonstrations render accounts and clarifications in this House; and the second thing that matters is not freedom, they are liberations, in particular their liberations, exclusive or part-time, but the only thing that matters is not Ourense, but their wages. They dignify the institution, ask forgiveness for citizenship and, above all, correct and allow that motion of censure that the citizenry demands and that the city needs. [[Applause]] In connection with this initiative, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in April, which is more or less identical or similar to what we will be presenting in March, part of the Order of 5 March for infrastructure grants in municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. And since then we also demanded that it be done in a competitive competition regime, discarding as the only criterion that requests, order of submission of applications. On the other hand, because as you can also understand the manifestation of the socialist voicer, a small filtration, a small information traffic would discard that system. But in addition, in any case, that system is highly inefficient, it is obvious. If what we're talking about is a call for grants to humanize villages, to provide improvements in the level of public services, to establish population, to value cultural heritage, what will be the best criterion for adjudicating those public resources, rather than private, that public resources? For the projects that best respond to this quality of life, that better serve the services to the population, that more jobs manage, that are more useful to value and to give an insight into the historical and cultural heritage of our villages, that in many cases is being spoiled by lack of economic resources to be able to address it; and even a principle of positive discrimination could be used in all those towns that have less resources so they can have a system of compensation for access to these public approaches. In a common sense. If that really is the goal we pursue, these must be the criteria that are used in order to be able to adjudicate these subsidies, quite contrary to what the People's Party proposes. Manage, manage and manage scarce resources and select those projects, the best projects to invest in. And none of that, by that system referred to by Mrs Rumbo, that grant grant by order of presentation is in the opposite direction. Why? Because first of all, not all of the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, in particular many of the municipalities in the Austrian countryside do not have a good internet connection, they could not participate in equality conditions, they could not participate in that system of adjudication or grant, and I'm talking to you about councils governed by the People's Party and speaking to you about councils governed by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[Paderne de Allariz]] [[glass]] They don't have the same conditions to participate in that allocation of public resources as any other municipality in this country. And even depending on the staff structure, because here, as you said, the adjudications are from midnight. The municipalities that have little personal, the municipalities that are respectful of the family and work reconciliation of their staff can they compete in these adjudications? Of course not, that this goes against a principle, of course, absolutely ineffective but also with a principle of territorial cohesion. Even if the best projects were to be penalized, the most ambitious projects, the projects that have the most documentation, would have a greater burden to be able to access, in normal computer conditions, to access that call. Also the posts that generate more jobs, the jobs that contribute to integration, the value of the heritage; the posts that have more complexity, even if they require not only public investments, but also private ones, would have the difficulty in being able to present such documentation in just 24 hours. By the way, a clarification, since the spokesperson of the People's Party knows something about this I don't understand is how in 2018 they can take account of the record of applications on the evil day. On Saturday, the problem is that it was presented on Saturday 2016 is infallible and, therefore, they are validating public performances performed in in bad times. But, you know, the saddest of all is that these criteria of adjudicating the work, adjudicing the grant, the first that goes through here, they do it with public resources, but I have to myself that they wouldn't do it for private resources. If what they're talking about is the reform of Genoa's headquarters, they wouldn't give it to the first builder to go through there and say: I do the work. No, they would be taking into account the price, they would be taking into account the materials, or they would be charged in A or B; that is, they would take into account other factors that are not just temporary priority. In any case, and as the socialist voicer spoke, this is one more aspect, but we have to go, as we speak the other day in Commission 1.a, to a permanent and future criterion, a respectful criterion with municipal autonomy and respect for the functions of our councils, an objective, transparent and predictable system. So if everything is reduced, there are cases where subsidies that come from Europe and they are not possible, but in everything that is own funds that is reduced or that finalist subsidies are eliminated. They are not respectful of local autonomy, that each county should make its own planning, have its resources and establish that it should invest in accordance with its criteria and priorities. Shares and transfers must be integrated into a local cooperation fund that distributes among different local entities according to objective and consistent criteria with the Fegamp, and that the municipalities have clarity to know what their income will be, what they will be available and whether they are done with non-arbitrary criteria, with previously established criteria, because, look, when there is discretion, the People's Party incurs, as it has already made itself manifest, incurs in absolute arbitraryness, and discretion and arbitrariness is not the same, even though for the People's Party it is so. Of the 407 million budgeted or planned in the budget of the Union, 72% are completely discretionary, discretionary funds that end up becoming arbitrary. The urbanism and housing conventions, if you type in the transparency web, of the 24 agreements signed in 2020, are the 24 for People's Party councils. If you see in the field of sport, of the 15 conventions that come out in that matter, 14 were devoted to the People's Party, to the councils governed by the People's Party, and this is a stamp typical of the Galician Union and also of the Ourense Provincial Deputy, of all the institutions in which you are ruling. They establish a fair, predictable and respectful system of local autonomy and, above all, that serves to manage effectively and effectively the resources that are public. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u81	Thank you, Mr. Tabares. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a preliminary matter it is necessary to point out, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, because, of course, here they say a lot of things that start to confuse people, but the ordinary procedure for granting grants, as established by the Galician Grants Act 9/2007, is that of competitive competition; that is why the vast majority of the grants called for by the Galician Council are established in this scheme for granting grants. And it is also true that there are some exceptions to this general rule in the supposing also that under that law, because here nobody invents the law or skips the law, when for the object and purpose of the grant it is not necessary to make the comparison of the application, and then it can be opted for by the non-competitive competition procedure -- it's not an invention either of the PP Group or of the Popular Party, because you're there where they govern it too well -- where the selection of beneficiaries meets other objective criteria, such as the date of submission of the application or the competition of other circumstances. By setting an example, in the case of the non-competitive line of the environmental compensation fund, the summons are intended for those municipalities whose municipal term is within the polygonal of the delimitation of an wind park, and also for those affected by the corresponding installation of connection or escape route, as set out in Law 8/2009 of 22 December, which regulates the wind use of Galicia. You, ladies and gentlemen, intend to create confusion through the false identification of the non-competitive competition regime with an unequal or subjective regime, and this assertion is completely false -- and I'm telling the two voices -- -- --, since the law itself defines the assumptions in which it comes, the cases in which competing circumstances in potential beneficiaries are equal, and a priority criterion cannot be established between them, and therefore it is a completely objective and also exceptional system that only occurs in the legally defined assumptions. The data of the grants convened by the Galician Board in 2020, already in attendance last week, the Director General of Local Administration, confirmed this statement: in more than 70% of the aid calls that the municipalities in Galicia have as beneficiaries set up the competitive competition regime. And so you speak of a partisan division, also through agreements, is also provided for in Article 4 of Law 9/2007 of 13 June 2007 of Galicia grants, which provides for the possibility of direct granting of subsidies in the alleged taxe­tively set out in the above-mentioned legal precept. And these grants are actually granted through resolution or collaboration agreement, and they will be those instruments through which the conditions and commitments are laid down. The convention also indicates the unique nature of the grant and the reasons for the public, social, economic or humanitarian interest, and those that justify the difficulty of its public summons. They're not close to this, you're where they govern agreements, and you're when you've ruled, and you, Mrs. Rumbo, who was CEO of the Local Administration, how many agreements have you signed? How many agreements you've signed! Yes, yes, I'll tell you now, I'll tell you now, don't worry. Not dialogue, as Mr. President says. In certain cases, yes, no, but I can also say, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You'll have to respect whoever's in the use of the word, man, is that I didn't interrupt anyone, I didn't interrupt anyone. In certain cases, the municipalities show specific extraordinary, urgent, inaccuracies and survival needs, which are usually accentuated by the confluence of other factors; for example, that there is no competitive call to which such a particular project can be accommodated, or which is expected in the coming dates, or the lack of resources of the small municipalities to be able to implement the actions in a restrictive budgetary framework of austerity and control of public expenditure. But you don't understand that, because they have the greatest government in the history of democratic Spain and also with more advisers in the economic context where we find ourselves, do you, Mrs Rumbo? But, ultimately, it is the impossibility of the local authority to face alone the economic commitments that the indispensable execution of the object actions of the agreement represents for the local farm. These collaborative agreements therefore respond to public and social interest. And, look, you talked about discretion in the agreements, I'll tell you what you were doing when you were ruling. Well, look, the two-party government has arranged agreements in 2008 worth EUR 1.95 million, of which 87.4% have been stopped at the municipalities where the partners of the two-party, alone or accompanied. That is, 8.7 euros out of 10, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, who likes to put the euro in the data, 8.7 out of 10. Almost 90% of the spending for 43% of those 315 municipalities that ruled between PSdeG and BNG. And for the 57% who ruled the PP, 10% of the conventions. That was a fair distribution. But, look, nothing like it had ever been done in Galicia's history, nor is it done now either, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, but without going back to the bipartite, we can talk about Lugo's deputation, the president of the socialist machist, Mr. Tomé Roca, who by course his leadership speaks a lot, but feminism shows itself by walking, less by mouth that this gentleman is a machist and seeing when Mr. Tomé Roca's support is withdrawn so that he ceases to be president of the Lugo O Deputation of feminism is being demonstrated by walking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, look, the Lugo Deputy, you who like Mrs. Rumbo's issues so much, look at this is the breakdown made by the Socialist Party, 67 municipalities in the Lugo province, 32 of the People's Party. It takes only 4%; the rest, 92% of the Congress of Place agreements where you rule is for the governments of their colors. And yet this plan that you come here to criticize so much, the Urbe, look at the distribution, look at the distribution in the Urbe. 40% for PP municipalities, and we rule almost 50%, and 60%, 60%!, for PSOE and BNG. In Urbe, the one you just criticized, non-competitive competition, Mrs. Rumbo. You see the difference between agreements and non-competitive competition, in the same province, in the same province, you come here to say something when you're in opposition and say and do the opposite when you rule. [[Applause]] So, zero lessons, Mrs. Rumbo, zero lessons. And, look, the distribution of aid by political colour in Urbe, of 39 aids, was only 23 for PP municipalities, I don't know. And Mr Tabares, by the way, indeed since the Law of 39/2015, Saturdays have ceased to be skilled, but for the purposes of deadlines. I recommend you check, yes, of course, because for record effects Saturdays work, eh. So, please, classes after law school... don't interrupt me that I didn't interrupt. [[Murmurs.]] After the kind of constitutional law that gave us a day in commission 1.a [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u83	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u84	...now that he comes to give us administrative law lessons, Mr. Tabares, frankly, check out the career law notes, because there are these things. And besides, look, BNG gentlemen, the Greeks expect us to rule for all, and that's what's expected of any administration, of any administration even from the place, except for those of the BNG, who rule for all but first for them, and we have the very clear example of corruption in Pontevedra. We have recently seen how, apart from giving them contracts to their friends, the first occupation license of the mayor's house took 20 years to give it. Talk about Pontevedra, talk about Ourense, but talk about Pontevedra too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] 20 years, and it's all right! That's not corrupt, that's not a cacical system. That's very good. Why? Because Mr. Lores, the super mayor of Pontevedra, does it. Look, no lessons, Mr. Tabares. No lessons. Look, about local funding, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you've been claiming a law and you've been ruling in Spain for three years, I told you the other day. We have repeatedly called upon the Central Government to define a new model of autonomous and local funding, to ensure the resources that each Administration can count on, and to take into account the specificities of the Greek municipalities in its distribution, such as demographic factors and population dispersion. Of course we agree with municipalism and its autonomy, but it's the state that needs to clarify the system of administration financing, autonomous and local. And you know, and besides, there's a deal with the Fegamp to do it, and I don't know, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, why you're obvious to all these things and you're constantly demanding something from the Galician Council that has to come from the state. What happens is that they now rule and it's as if you, besides being pandemic commentators, are all commentators. Government, start ruling Spain, please, and stop claiming to the Galician Board of Appeals that you have where you rule, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Look, indeed, there is uncertainty about the new system of self-financing, we see them every day with the aggravations made by the Government of Spain to Galicia, skipping all sides the autonomic funding, since what we need, but on top of it they invent new percentages to be able to harm Galicia and benefit other communities that come to you better by counting Members at the Congress of Deputies, right, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo? Yeah, look, no. We want certainty for self-financing and from there we will have certainty in local funding. To figure this out is to figure out reality. Look, I'm done. I'm done appealing to seriousness in the propositions, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo; they can't do something where they rule and ask for the opposite when they're in the opposition. And they can't ask the Board to set up a new local funding framework when it has to start with the government of the state, in which they've been three years. And we on this proposal, if we are allowed to vote on points, because we will vote on point 3 separately. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u86	Look, Mrs. Prado del Río, I understand that you here today play a paperboard, have to defend... yes, yes, yes, totally, you touch a paperboard. We have to defend this form of distribution of public funds. I bring you samples, I bring you data and I bring you graphs that collect what the Galician Union does, which is what we've seen here, this is here, and this is the forum where we have to question how we govern the Galician Union. I've already told you the other day in the presence of the Director General of Local Administration that if the representatives of the People's Party have no arguments or can't defend, you prepare him. You prepare the arguments for them to defend themselves there! But, look, I'm here to talk about deputies, but the truth is, it turns out to be curious, because I also have a chart, Mrs. Prado del Río. Look, the Single Plan of Councils 2021 of the deputies, the Coruña allocates 35.01 % of its budget to 93 municipalities, which comes out for a reason -- if we did an average -- of €694,623 for each municipality. The Lugo Parliament has a single plan which refers to 23.24 % of its budget and which corresponds to the 67 municipalities EUR 320,895. The Deputy of Pontevedra adds 25.84% of its budget, and it corresponds to 696.721. Do you know how much the House of Ourense is up to? Well, look, 9.06 % is what is meant for the municipalities, for 92 municipalities and it corresponds to EUR 78,500 for each municipality. Anyway, soon the Board of Auditors must deliver here the report on the Ourense Deputy. We'll have an opportunity to analyze it, Mrs. Prado del Río, go and prepare your questions. We'll have a chance to analyze them. [[Applause]] Look, you're talking about local funding and the Galician board is waiting, what are you waiting for? Because, look, when he ruled the Touriño, in the Touriño government, the conditions were exactly the same, but that didn't stop the local cooperation fund from increasing by 28 million euros, 28 million euros. Just like twelve years ago when you've been ruling, you're ruling, you. And also in the Government Touriño a local pact was signed today, twelve years later, it's still undeveloped and it's the fault of this board of Galicia headed by President Feijóo and what you stand for. [[Murmurs.]] And they talk about municipalism and when you get here they don't defend municipalism on any of its aspects. Look, we're talking, and I told you before, Mr. Peace, if you want and the president leaves you, I have no drawback.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u87	Please don't dialogue, don't dialogue. It's going very well. No, it's going very well, because you heard him say something, that's why. I was interrupting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u88	Look, I remind you again and I teach you again and I have tables one by one of the municipalities. You're the way to rule this Galician Union not in competitive competition, not in non-competitive competition, in agreements, this is a scandal, this is a scandal, Mrs. Prado del Río. The Union... not the Galician Union, yes!, there are many more. I'm just talking about the Environmental Council. In 2 years 10 million euros in that 9 out of 10 municipalities of the People's Party. And 9.3 out of every 10 euros for the People's Party. This is a scandal, a scandal, a scandal. [[Applause]] One moment ago the president of the Galician Union spoke of his rule for all. No, you don't rule the same way for everyone, you rule much better in those municipalities where there's a Government of the People's Party. They're very different and should, you shouldn't, but you should ask the Greek Government to govern exactly the same or much clearer criteria for all municipalities. Because besides these municipalities, people, neighbors and neighbors live there and, therefore, they have no reason to suffer from the shortcomings that this Council of Galicia has manifested to them. But, look, you were talking to me about Plan Hurbe, by the way, you already have a lot more data than I do, you already have a lot more data. Because, look, in the year 2016 of Plan Hurbe this is also the distribution of the Galician board, this Galician board, this councillor. So I don't know very well what we were talking about. And we're here, 9 out of every 10 euros in People's Party councils, and 9.4 out of every 10 municipalities are also in the People's Party. Look, Mrs. Prado del Río, I'm obviously not going to allow them to vote for points. You must manifest yourselves. If they really want to express their municipalism, that of lies, that of what they say but they don't, they vote in favour. What we're asking for is a plan, a plan for all municipalities with a population of less than 20,000 inhabitants on equal terms, taking into account their social reality and their demographic reality. That would be good for depopulation and not how you do it, one thing is what they say and another is very different from what they do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u90	It's actually something they say and then they don't do anything. Like they always do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u91	About the BNG amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u92	On the amendment, I believe that in our operative part, what is the amendment of the BNG is quite well collected and, of course, to the People's Party that vote in favour and, if not, to prove once again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u93	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u94	...that they are not in favor of municipalism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u95	So not both.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u96	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u97	Okay, all right. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Non-law proposal by G. P. Socialist, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and Ms. Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impact on the citizenship of the restructuring and banking concentration process that is taking place in Galicia There are amendments to the People's Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its Spokesman, and at the initiative of Mrs Sandra Vázquez Domínguez, in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 and in agreement with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to that Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal:Replacement amendmentThe text of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to:1st.- To request the Government of Spain to put in place a plan against financial exclusion in rural areas, as well as compliance with the measures taken in the Senate's plenary agreement adopted at the full session of 9 September 2020. In particular, measures will be promoted to recover, guarantee and increase the provision of banking services with face-to-face attention to customers, in particular older persons and certain groups with greater difficulty in digital accessibility.2o.- The autonomous administration, within their competences in the field of consumption, shall continue with its information campaigns programme and the provision of information and advice on financial services to the Greek consumers, as well as the recompiling and transfer of the problems identified in this field to the Government of Spain and the Bank of Spain for the purposes of adopting appropriate measures for its resolution.3o.- Continue to promote the agreement signed between the Galician Union and Fegamp to universalize access to banking and financial services."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal:Replace the resolution with the following text:"The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to develop its exclusive competences in the field of consumption by encouraging, in the wake of the Galician Institute of Consumption and Competition, collective campaigns of bank claims, information to consumers and own studies on the violation of its rights in order to transfer those demands and needs limited by the competence framework.2. To encourage, in collaboration with the central government, local corporations, social organizations and consumer associations, a consensus around measures to reduce the potential financial exclusion of and of the Greeks for the closure of banking offices without in any case an increase in the transfer of public administration economic resources to private financial institutions.3. Develop and submit to the Galician Parliament within 15 days a plan which includes specific measures to ensure the digital accessibility of the people of Greek financial consumers, as well as to launch digital training and training campaigns specifically directed to the inhabitants of municipalities that do not have a bank office and that are in no case protected by the entities themselves to ensure their objectivity.4. Referring to Parliament within 1 month, a report on the impact of the process of financial concentration on the Greek credit and mortgage market, especially with regard to retail consumers and Pemes by continuing the "Report on banking concentration in Galicia from the point of view of competition" prepared by the Galicia Competition Commission (published 2018).5. Address banking institutions operating in Galicia and are closing offices, dismissing workers and workers, and locating services to other communities or countries, as well as disconnecting banking services to telemarketing companies to demand the cessation of such abusive practices.6. To call on the central government to develop the appropriate changes in the area of banking regulation to curb the consequences of increasing banking concentration, failure to comply with competition rules and exacerbate financial exclusion, in particular to respond to the escalation of bank abuse of service restrictions, the timetable for limiting cash services, increased commission and drastic reductions in offices and staff."]] To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u98	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. In fact, today we are taking an initiative that has to do with the impact that the banking concentration process is having in the country, here in Galicia. We are indeed faced with a very complex, very difficult economic situation, as we all know, where the financial sector throughout 2020 has also been affected by its profitability. And that's causing a wave of mergers, a wave of bank concentration that it's going to have, and in fact, it has positive effects for financial entities in the form of profit, as we're seeing these days that the data of the first quarter of the financial institutions are publishing, but it obviously has negative effects in parallel to the whole of the citizenship of this country, for the whole of the Greek citizenship. Concentration process that obviously leads to layoffs, takes staff adjustments, carries office closures, brings less competition in the sector, carries a kind of oligopolization while and when in Galicia already 3-4 financial entities control almost 100% of the business. And it leads to financial exclusion as soon as citizenship is pushed off from banking offices and using electronic banking, when in fact many people lack digital skills. In short, it's causing a lot of people even have no chance of accessing the cash; that is, going to a bank office and withdrawing money for their daily use. It is true that this process is not exclusive of Galicia, which is a process that is taking place at the state level, even at the European level. And even Galicia is not the autonomous community where more offices close in the state as a whole; it is true that Castela-La Mancha has a more complex situation, but it is true that Galicia is having a very important impact on the banking concentration process that undoubtedly affects many of the country's municipalities as soon as they are out of office and therefore is excluding a very important set of the population from access to a basic service such as financial services. And it is true that the economic system needs a robust and strong financial system, but it must not be forgotten that the financial system, part of it, has received important funds in the form of rescue by the state's entire citizenship over the past few years, and it is outrageous to see how in this context, in a pandemic context, in a difficult context, in a context where employment must be preserved, as financial institutions are taking measures of dismissal, of prejudgment, of adjustment of staff when these same banks, their managers keep their wages and good absolutely scandalous and unacceptable. In Galicia in the last 10 years, since 2008 to be more accurate, more than 1,300 bank offices have been closed. An impact on the initial banking concentration and especially on employment, we are now seeing it with Banco Santander, who is starting a job regulation file, staff adjustment file that will affect 370 jobs in Galicia with a closure of about 80 offices; an adjustment in the staff box that will be very intense in Galicia, especially because Banco Santander here, in addition to being owner of the Banco Popular, is in turn the owner of the network that the Banco Pastor formerly had, therefore, very scattered throughout the whole of the country's municipalities and will therefore also have an important impact on the closure of offices and financial exclusion that many neighbors and neighbours of the municipalities where the offices were located, especially the Banco Pastor today disappeared, will have. It's also producing in the CaixaBank entity a job regulation file, most likely in Spain's history after Telephonica, which will also affect after the merger with Bankia here in Galicia, although with less impact, it foresees an allocation of about 90 jobs. We here if we want to draw attention, because this bank, CaixaBank, after the merger with Bankia, has just presented results last week and we see that it has benefited 4,786 million euros. And in this context it is producing a very important adjustment at the state level that will also affect 90 workers in Galicia. And, in parallel, BBVA is also initiating a staff conversion and adjustment process that will also severely affect Galicia in the form of office closures, 59 in the set of the northwest, covering Galicia, Asturias and Castle-Leon, and where 120 employees will also be affected. As for the year 2019, this bank has been set up here in Galicia, liquidated 224 jobs and, of course, we are in a very complex situation, as this bank has offices in some municipalities where they are only offices and they are closing down, as happened in 2020 in some municipalities like Sober, Abadín or Ferreira de Pantón. This process doesn't stay here. Abanca, which is the most important financial entity in this country as a result of the disappearance of savings banks, who has set foot on a bank called New Galicia Bank, nationalized with 9,000 million, which has been sold to the current owner of this entity and is in the process of expansion, an expansion process which in this case leads to the acquisition of the offices of the General Deposit Bank, which is causing 35 offices and 120 jobs of the total 240 that this entity had. Although this entity, Abanca, has also presented positive results in the form of benefits in this last quarter, this is no obstacle to the fact that they do not hesitate to close also banking offices, in this case that of Vilaxoán in Pontevedra province and that of Carril. So an impact on employment is the banking concentration process, but it also has an impact on the physical presence of offices in Galicia. 45 municipalities in this country do not have any bank offices and 118 municipalities in Galicia alone and only have a bank office. It's excluding the population from access to a basic service such as going to a physical office in a bank and removing money for usual uses, everyday uses. In Ourense this problem is much more complex, much more complicated. If 2.4 percent of the population today does not have a bank office, if that data is transferred to the province of Ourense, it turns out that 10% of the population does not have access to a bank office. So it's producing a financial exclusion from a lot of the population, especially those smaller municipalities, than the municipalities where the larger or older population resides. And to all of this, banks are still forcing customers, financial institutions to go to the digital bank, often in an absolutely impossible way for many people, since they have no digital skills and because they have no digital knowledge, and even in some municipalities where they don't even reach the Internet. So there's a technological exclusion that is obviously causing financial exclusion and this is an absolutely serious problem. In 200 municipalities in this country, in Galicia, there are difficulties with access to the Internet, and therefore this is a difficulty added to the process that many municipalities are experiencing and that are living as a result of the neighbours who live in them with access to banking digital services. And, of course, banking concentration, banking monopoly, banking oligopolie, also has an effect on the imposition of abusive commissions on all customers using financial services. There is no competition and therefore financial institutions are imposing absolutely abusive clauses in certain types of contracts such as the contract for the maintenance of a current account, a simple current account. And this is much more serious even in those groups that are most socially excluded in the field of access to the bank as pensioners or people with minimum incomes or lower incomes can be. We are therefore faced with a real social problem that calls for action by the public sector. We need an exact X-ray of the municipalities and of the current situation with regard to the neighbors who don't have a financial entity's physical office in their field. We need to know and we need that since the Galician Union, in the exclusive sphere of its competences in the field of consumption, carry out important campaigns of digital literacy, to give knowledge to the neighbourhood as a whole so that you can access the digital bank. We appreciate, finally, that you can do it through Email pilot experiences, as is happening in some province of Galicia, in Lugo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u100	...even in some Andalusian province, but we understand that the Administration has to take letters on the matter. And in view of this, we are proposing an initiative that essentially goes towards this, that the Galician Union in the field of its competences should take the necessary steps to avoid financial exclusion. Of course, it's not a question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u102	... -- finished already -- that affects only and exclusively the Galician Union, also in the sphere of state. And then in the second intervention, I will make an assessment of the amendments to this initiative, which we believe are absolutely positive in some cases and which we are therefore willing to accept. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u103	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the first reflection I wanted to leave on the table is that what happened in the financial sector as of 2008, but also what is happening right now with the alibi of the Covid-19 pandemic by means of it has only one word to summarize, which is scandalous, is an absolute scandal and is the best word that can sum up what is happening even now in this new crisis, which, although it is not of financial origin, is actually witnessing a new step in banking concentration and in the transformation of the sector. And we deny most of the arguments put forward here a few minutes ago: the question of the movements we are seeing now is not due to a low profitability of banking entities or a moment of transitional difficulty of banking entities, but to a planned, orderly and internationally sponsored roadmap, especially in the European Union, but also through the Spanish State agencies. And it's due, moreover, to something that a union in recent mobilisations illustrated very well: it's not Covid, but it's greed, the greed of these banking entities that the only thing they're looking for is their maximum performance and benefit, even makeup their results to get out of the way, too much easier, you have to say, in making farewells for keeping this labour reform from the People's Party that we keep waiting and following the bank workers waiting for it to be mined from the central government to thus have more negotiating instruments, because surely many of those processes we're living would be less traumatic, too, you have to say it. As I also said, since 2008, we have been living in this process of financial restructuring, which has not stopped restructuring at any time. I want to quote here a report, The Greek economy 2019-2020 of the Idega that is clarifying, and says: "The Spanish financial system intensified during 2019 the uninterrupted adjustment of capacity started at the start of the 2007 crisis with an annual reduction, this I remember for the year 2019-2020, when the gross domestic product grew, all these issues and if we were to believe that we were in a super recovery, with an annual reduction of office network in Galicia! 8.3% and 2.8% in the number of employees, while the managed turnover grew by 1.4%. We insist that since BNG, it is not Covid, it is not this health crisis that has also become an economic crisis, but that it is the greed of this economic system and the banking system, which increases profits and reduces services. And so we're repeating, but with greater acceleration, what we've already experienced in 2008 -- the distortion of our own financial muscle, already of what's left. So we've seen the merger of the banking of the boxes and later sale at balance price; we're seeing again removals of entities and a hidden bank rescue, because there's no longer a bank rescue with name and surnames, but they're in practice, not only for the first injections of funds directly from the European level to banking entities for liquidity issues, but we're also seeing the issue of ICO credits, which is not a hidden rescue to the bank, or we're even seeing that process that not only passes in Galicia, also in the state and also in the European field, that directly here the European funds go to the hands of the big bank; and we have the best example in the last few weeks in our country, where the Galician Board has decided that Mr. Escotet has to manage, push and know more of the European funds than the German Parliament or the Joint Council setting up that company. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So we continue in the same and at the same time as more closed offices when we thought that we couldn't go to more, more job losses, more worse services and more increases in addition to difficulties in access to credit, not only for individuals, but also for pemes. So this is an issue that obviously concerns us. And the socialist spokesman said it wasn't a Greek process, we agree, but we also know the conditions in our country, on this initiative we are asking for a report; a few years later the process of bad selling the Popular-Pastor conglomerate there was a report by the Galicia Competition Commission, precisely this Parliament's initiative, the BNG initiative; and before, without calculating that last merger that is almost the final step of the collapse of our financial muscle, we already said that in Galicia we had a higher level of concentration than that of the Spanish state and above that of the European average. So, obviously, these things that are happening around us, which may seem harmless or light because they have a far greater impact than elsewhere. What's the matter? In the diagnosis, in the dramatic situation that this is, because there seems to be a coincidence in this Parliament, but we obviously differ in the reading of some issues and in the solutions because, of course, in the face of this reality, what are governments doing? For the President's Government -- which would already skip the president's office, but after yesterday I'll try to remember -- Sánchez is that he did nothing, he did absolutely no action to the thread for example of the Payment Services Act, the Payment Services Decree, sorry, that I want to remember that in his day, thanks to social mobilization, because of abusive commissions he had made changes. And so here we have a omission of functions from the CNV itself in a scandalous matter of competition also from the Banco de España itself. Once again history is repeated, regulators are failing and, therefore, in that sense, we are critical and critical. Of course, there are also those who get over it, which is Mr. Feijóo's government, because with a big mouth he says he has no competences, that this is something that doesn't go with them. We already know that the use of competences, self-government and to go beyond it, the Government of Feijóo uses it as it suits him electorally, but what he does with his small mouth is to engage in a debate that I think is latent on this initiative too, which is that these entities that have been rescued from public funds, who are firing people in our country, who are closing offices, what are we going to do? So we're going to give them subsidies to put cash boxes in the municipalities where the entities were closed, which is already the top of the hives. [[Applause]] This is as if we're here saying that in view of the concern of H's closures in Ourense and Vigo we're going to pay H's why he put tents in Vigo and in Ourense. Or as if we were saying that, as Naturgy is locating jobs in the Coruña and also from Ourense to Madrid, because we are going to pay more to Naturgy, which does not have sufficient economic benefits across this country, to keep four jobs. Well, it's just like we're crazy. Of course, we have tabled a very clear amendment in that sense. We from the Galego Nationalist Block have made it clear that we have to reform the field of competition, that we have to put political pressure on banking entities, but of course we are not in favour of a single euro of the budgets of the Galician Union going to subsidies so that, in addition, I am willing to put the name of the entity that will get more subsidies from them on a paper and deliver it to the President so that we can open it when these subsidies are checked, because we all know who will go, start with A and end with A, not a single public euro so that these entities that have been rescued with more than 65,000 million euros, from which we will not recover even 15,000 million euros, which are a budget and half from the Galician Union, are going to have even more public hero in their capacity to put the cashiers they have removed, because that is an absolute trigger. So, in that sense, we present an amendment and also other issues that we understand should be more demanding, both with the Union, that it has to develop its exclusive competences in consumption and defend this country, as with the Central Government itself, as well as demanding banking institutions, because it's very good to forget here that many people are saying goodbye, but it's better to ask them not to do so. And finally, a reflection of the moment we live, which I think is symptomatic, or two takes time. On the one hand, the deep precariousness of employment. In other words, today there is no longer that figure of the privileged person who worked in the banking sector 20 years ago, and the best evidence is that bank entities themselves are undermining their services, subrogating their own services and that most of today are presented in this country by Call Center, by the Call Center agreement for a very small amount of salary a month in very precarious conditions, aided, by course, also by a state-wide agreement under conditions that are directly operating. On the other hand, we're also seeing that outsourcing of the banking entities themselves that now have collaborator agents throughout the territory; Santander is a disguised specialist, because they don't offer the same services or guarantees, and we're seeing how that way there's a brutal destruction of employment of their quality. But we're also seeing that financial exclusion, the closure of offices, is no longer a reality of rural life, this is not the municipality of the Mosque, down there in Ourense, which goes once a week the minibus of Banca when there's a fair so people can get money. That model is being exported everywhere. Ourense, third city of Galicia, district of Ponte, almost 30,000 inhabitants, the city's most populous neighborhood, Abanca has closed down an entity in recent months, Santander has closed down another entity; for 30,000 people, there are almost two entities, practically, banks and that's what explains the queues, it's not Covid's prevention, that's also why this process is already reaching the door of our house. That's the thing about: when you see the beards of your neighbor cut you off, worry because they're gonna come for you, because that's exactly what's happening right now with the financial systems. So the question is, what's the way? We'll expect to also have to pay a bank entity to put a cashier and keep it and come now and then a worker, knowing what conditions, take care of at least that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u106	...I serve in the capital of this country, or we're going to do something else, another strategy, I say, for a minimum need from the public, both from the U.S. and from the state, and also to imply that this is not supposed to reduce economic resources, but to make political negotiations, to make legislative changes so that, of course, this sector that lives at the expense of the public age ceases to abuse this absolutely all of our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The financial sector has been very affected by the crisis that we have been living since 2008, as commented by the honourable Members who preceded me in speaking, but these problems were not exclusive from Spain. The restructuring of the financial system, the consolidation processes of entities and even the reformulation of the banking business is a generalized fact globally. The financial crisis has led the banking sector to experience a process of gradual restructuring in the search for new business models adapted to the new challenges that arise: a new regulatory framework, negative interest rates, sector digitization, the resolution of doubtful assets and even the entry of new competitors. In short, the current financial system has nothing to do with the financial system ten years ago, that's a reality. I want to show you two messages, ladies and gentlemen, which find many users of the financial services: closed window or even cash time for receipt payments or withdrawal of cash on Tuesdays- Thursdays from 8.30 to 10.30. I am convinced that your lordships have had the opportunity to see and live these situations and probably many of us can deal with these new habits, that new digitization that drives us to innovate every day. But what is unacceptable is that a large part of the population, larger and vulnerable people, is affected by this digitization, the shortage of presence-care services and the limitation of schedules and even increased commission. And there, Mr Francisco Rivera, the Banco de España must act and, of course, the State Government must perform its duties, since the body responsible for the supervision of banking institutions, according to the regulations established by the Central Government, is the Banco de España. There is a need for action to avoid such aggravating in people who don't know and are not familiar with digital advances. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is convenient to contextualize what situation we are in and what role the different public administrations should play in reaching agreements that reflect the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's why it's necessary to know the work being carried out by the German Government, and so you can check the spokesperson for the Socialist Group that what you are asking for in your resolution is done through the Galician Consumer and Competence Institute to avoid the financial exclusion of consumers. Therefore, the work of the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition is advisory, training and accompanying to submit the claims according to the established procedure. Even so, the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition has once again shown its sensitivity to the demands of the people of Greece, and has acted as I will demean them. See, after Royal Decree Act 1/2017, the institute made available to consumers a service to advise on the analysis and calculation of amounts unduly charged by financial institutions. Moreover, in relation to the bank accounts commissions, in June 2020 the Government of Greece, in contact with the Banco de España, and following the concern of the socio-economic context generated by Covid-19, took steps to speed up claims in those most vulnerable or affected families by some ERTE. Therefore -- by putting data on the table --, of the 440 claims 90% came out in favour of the consumer, from which the Greek Government -- more specifically, the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition -- works intensely in a context of socio-economic crisis as we are living. At the beginning of the year, the Italian Government referred to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs a single interpretative criterion on unilateral modification by financial entities applying the accounts which had not previously applied. He will agree with me, Mr. Francisco Rivera, that the German Government has for years been carrying out the defense of the rights of banking consumers, as it could not be otherwise. And I think the state government must act the same way. As for the Greek financial map you request, this information is available on the website of the Galego Institute of Statistics, but I can also transfer to you that, if you see it as appropriate, I can transfer that data to you from total cordiality. As for the third point of his initiative, he set up training campaigns. And, of course, it's already done, gentlemen! See, through the Galega School of Consumption programs are developed -- such as accessible consumption, general consumption or local consumption -- with the objective of developing these training activities to ensure clear, accessible and easy to use information both in the traditional market and in the digital market for older people, those with disabilities or those at risk of social exclusion. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt that the Galician Institute works and sees you at all times for the rights of consumers in Galicia, using all the tools made available to you, as the socialist spokesperson well said. That is why we believe that all administrations must defend the rights of consumers within their powers, as Mr Francisco has said; and there the Banco de España has an important task as a supervisory body. Older people, vulnerable people find it difficult to carry out financial procedures such as cash withdrawal in their banking institutions, and it's their function to monitor and monitor their actions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Business and Public Administration and the President of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces signed a partnership protocol in the past to ensure that all Greek citizens have financial services in the municipality, a plan that you, Mr. Francisco Rivera, demand at the fifth point, and that, apart from being launched for several months, it already has the accession of 45 municipalities throughout Galicia. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, programmes, agreements and actions that aim to provide training and information to more sensitive consumers, such as older persons or disabled persons, as well as those at social risk. That's why we tabled a replacement amendment in order to reach an agreement, all working in a coordinated manner and within their competences. The amendment consists of three points, and the first is that the State Government must put in place this Financial Exclusion Plan, after and as it has been approved unanimously, and here I can transmit to you, Mr Francisco Rivera, that on 9 September unanimously and the Socialist Group's initiative to promote those measures necessary to recover, secure and increase the provision of banking services with attention to customers and, in particular, to older persons and certain groups with greater difficulty in digital accessibility. The second point of the amendment is that the information campaign programme and the provision of information and advice on financial services to the Greek consumers continue, given that a great deal of work is being done within their competences and that the problems identified in this area are being shifted to the Government of Spain and the Bank of Spain taking the appropriate measures. Finally, the third point of our amendment is to continue to push for that agreement -- which seems to have not really liked Mrs. Presas -- to universalize access to banking services, agreement between the Fegamp and the Union. I tell you, Mrs. Presas, that services are totally free, in case you have any doubts, which seems to keep it that way. Finally, Mr President, with the help of the People's Parliamentary Group. The Galician Institute works and watches at all times for the rights of consumers in Galicia, taking numerous measures that I believe have been tearing down and degrading during my intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept that banking consumers have to keep up with closed hours in bank procedures in a limited way, as they are doing. And there the State Government and the Banco de España must act urgently as the competent body. We are not starting from zero, since, after the unanimous approval of the High House at the initiative of the Socialist Group, the agreement will benefit banking consumers, and it is appropriate that even the State Government should act so that banking consumers are not harmed at the time of the mere payment of a receipt, and there the Banco de España's monitoring work. With the amendment tabled and with the tendency of the People's Parliamentary Group, I am finished with the aim of reaching the best agreements, since they will be the agreements for the Greeks and for the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u109	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u110	Well, we... I think that, finally, there's a fundamental coincidence here in all political groups in relation to a very complex situation that is basically affecting citizens living in smaller municipalities. In fact, there is also the situation that 50 offices have been closed in the city of Ourense since 2008; indeed, it is also in the urban sphere, but I believe that there is a background to a social reality which is very complex and very difficult for many people, especially, who live in the city of Ourense: older people, people who have no digital knowledge or skills, people who are being pushed to the electronic bank without facilitating the skills necessary for this to happen and in municipalities where there is no internet or where there are still difficulties. So we have a very similar diagnosis. I, in connection with the amendments put forward by the People's Party, agree that it is requested and that this unanimous agreement is complied with which it was actually adopted in the Senate by the political forces as a whole. An agreement promoted by the Socialist Party and which called for work to prevent the less populated municipalities of Spain from being called empty, from becoming even more disadvantaged as a result of the closure of banking offices. So we accept and will accept point 1 of his amendment as an addition, as an addition to our own point of motion. With regard to the BNG initiative, with the amendment of the BNG, we also agree that, in fact, there is not here... the Bank of Spain and the Spanish state also have to do many things, of course, what is happening here is scandalous -- you define it -- and I also said that it is unacceptable that in a pandemic context, in a context of economic crisis financial institutions are presenting results this month and many of them with multimillionaire benefits, and still if it is producing a process of closing offices and financial exclusion and in addition to massive dismissal of workers. It is absolutely scandalous and unacceptable; therefore, we agree also at the bottom of the matter. And we are clear that, as far as the country is concerned, it is unacceptable that there are 45 municipalities that have no bank office; that there are 28 in our province, in Ourense, Mrs. Noa Presas; 10% of the population that does not have physical access to a bank office, when we know that in these municipalities only older people live. It is unacceptable and, therefore, we are proposing an initiative, at last, with the intention of reaching a consensus that we understand that at the bottom everyone agrees and I believe it is necessary and essential that these kinds of initiatives are going to shut down to change the real situation of what is happening in this country. Regarding the amendments to BNG, we are willing to accept the addition of points 1, 2 and 5. We understand that the rest, well, is to complement more or less what we're talking about and they wouldn't bring much. And, with regard to the amendment of the People's Party, I insist on accepting point 1. And from then on, if you consider it to be essential, to vote on this initiative in conjunction with the added points I have just reported, and to take forward an initiative in defence of something that we consider essential, which is to avoid disappointment or to prevent it from being affected by the lack of social and territorial cohesion in this country by depriving citizens of a fundamental service such as the service of access to a banking office, in addition to depriving them of them already in many other fundamental services such as having a school, a doctor, or even decent access to fundamental services. We therefore hope in this context that the vote will be positive and unanimous and that this initiative will go forward. It's an initiative -- I insist -- participated with the amendments of the People's Party and also with the amendments of the BNG. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u111	Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Encarnación Amigo Díaz and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the German Government to the Central Government in relation to organic legislation on public health This motion for a non-law tabled an amendment to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and also to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to this Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal:Amendment of amendment The resolution of the proposal must be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Seek an agreement with the Government of Spain through the Bilateral Commission on the amendment of Galicia's Health Act 8/2008 which resolves the problems of fit within the existing legal framework.2. To maintain institutional loyalty with all levels of the Administration in order to ensure the best possible control of the pandemic, by convening Cecop as soon as possible and supporting the decisions taken within the framework of the Interterritorial Council between the autonomous communities and the Ministry of Health as well as by the health authorities."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mrs. Iria Carreira Pazos, in the light of the provisions of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal:Replace the text of the resolution with the following words:"The Welsh Parliament urges the Committee of Galicia to demand from the Government of State that it will, as before, make the necessary regulatory changes in the organic legislation so that autonomous communities have full competence for the management of the entire health system, including emergency and serious risk situations for public health such as the current occasion of the Covid 19th, with full guarantees and legal security.")]] To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u112	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. This was supposed to be a weekend of good news. The epidemiological situation is improving throughout the country, especially in Galicia; vaccines begin to arrive from Europe with a certain speed; and Sergas advances without rest to vaccinate all the Greeks as soon as possible. The clinical committee may have begun to phase out some of the health restrictions, and it seems to start to see light at the end of the tunnel. But this was a sad weekend, ladies and gentlemen, full of images that I think have shamed the whole of Spanish society. One weekend when the streets of many cities in Spain were filled with irresponsibles, it must be said, it must be said, high and clear, they have filled themselves with irresponsibles that with their attitude, gathering in a way that is inappropriate, put many lives at risk and all the efforts made by the Spanish society as a whole over the past fourteen months. Of course, the guilt of these acts, of these behaviors, is mainly of the irresponsible who played them, but this time their responsibility is not unique, it's a shared responsibility. Shared with a government that refused to prevent it, a government that did nothing did an effect called upon to take place this kind of thing. It happened what unfortunately we said could happen if no tools were set up, because, you have to say, in Spain we have a government that refused to act actively and passively create a legal framework to prevent this from happening after the alarm state has been completed. From the German Government and from the parliamentary group that supports it, we've long been warning that this could happen because Spain lacks a suitable regulatory framework to manage the pandemic 14 months after it started. This has not happened in other European countries, such as France or Germany, which have changed their health legislation. No, Spain did not have a Government in accordance with the circumstances to assume its responsibilities and promote a legislative reform so that right now, 14 months after the start of this pandemic, our country had a health legislation that could allow public administrations to deal with this situation. Since the beginning of the first wave, the Government of Pedro Sánchez has used the state of alarm as the only management tool of this crisis; a constitutional mechanism yes, but a mechanism designed to be applied in an exceptional and limited way over time. And now that it's over, the Government's response is again being sidetracked from its own responsibilities and now delegating those that would be its functions in justice and in courts, assigning a role to the judiciary that is not covered by the Constitution itself and that it is also paying attention to the most elementary separation of powers. He began by delegating his powers to the autonomous communities and now delegating his powers to the courts, so as not to assume his own responsibilities. The Government of Sánchez has turned the Supreme Court into a guard's trial. That's the respect this Government has for Spanish justice. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain we have no specific rules for the management of a pandemic like this and for this reason, at the various conferences of presidents that have been held since the beginning of the pandemic, President Feijóo has repeatedly called for a reform of organic law. In the face of the failure to respond, on 8 October 2020, the Council of the Union adopted a proposal for the reform of organic law which was immediately referred to the Government of Spain. There was no answer, no kind of answer. Nor was this proposal welcomed and, therefore, on October 25, we saw ourselves turning to a new state of alarm and the need to re-take restrictive measures without an appropriate legal framework that made the state of alarm unnecessary. Therefore, in view of the attitude of abandonment of the central government's own responsibilities, in the face of proposals for reform of the health laws which were promised a year ago by the Government of Sánchez and which never arrived, in the presence of a mandate of a parliamentary reconstruction commission to draw up a timetable and to carry out those reforms, which was directly ignored by the Government of Spain, in the process of a real decree which had to serve to provide legal security to the autonomous communities and served on the contrary, in the presence of an entire state of alarm expiring on 9 May and for what the Government has proved to have no alternative, in view of this whole situation, to the Unity of Galicia and the group that supports it, the People's Party of Galicia, acted where we could act, which is legislating from our competences, from our responsibilities. And we have done this reform of the Public Health Act, adopted in this Parliament with the sole support of the majority group, the People's Group. We are before a law that comes to ensure proportionate action and to ensure legal security and respect for citizens' rights, just the opposite of what the PSdEG-PSOE and the Nationalist Block Galego said in that debate, which surprisingly stood on the side of Vox's negationists. For that, for that, there are no sanitary cords, that's exactly where they agreed. [[Laughter]] Our law restricts and regulates the exercise of power, but it allows us to have mechanisms to regulate a escalation that is still necessary today, probably more necessary than ever, to prevent what in Galicia would be a fourth wave and what in Spain might be a fifth wave. A law that does not open any possibility that it has not already been empowered by Organic Law 3/1986, of special measures in the field of public health. That law, which tells us of the appropriate measures that are deemed necessary. The aim of the reform of the Public Health Act in Galicia was to establish what were those timely measures and what we considered necessary. To look at how measures have to be developed, to define what rights citizens have, to clarify what obligations administrations have and how to take them. In short, put guarantees, ladies and gentlemen. Guarantees, and that's why we defend and defend their perfect legality, and so we will defend it before the Constitutional Court when necessary. But the Government of Pedro Sánchez is like the dog of the vegetable, who neither eats nor lets food, which neither legislates nor leaves legislate. Nor does it put the means to ensure the legality of the pandemic management, nor does it allow autonomous communities to do so. So we're in a situation where we don't have the tools that enable the state of alarm, but we don't have a legislation that allows health authorities to face with guarantees of serious risk to public health. The Council of State found this same situation, because the Government of Spain has refused to reform an organic law which needs to be specified, because it is clearly insufficient. We did not say so, the Council of State said so, and because the Government of Spain refused to speak with the Government of Greece on a bilateral commission that was never convened, coming directly to the Constitutional Court and calling for the suspension of part of that law. I mean, we're before a government that neither works nor lets work, a government that has presented a political resource, a political resource, clearly political resource against a law, probably because it bothered him that the Council of Galicia had done what the Government of Spain had not been able to do when it even came to promise it quite a few months ago. The Government of Galicia cannot of course be as irresponsible as the Central Government and of course it will continue to fight for the existence of that autonomous legislation, whether state or autonomous, but in any case we are not going to be as irresponsible as the Government of Spain. We have from now on the calm awareness that we seek by all means to give citizenship to Galician citizenship a guaranteed legal framework in which to face the exit of the alarm state, you may bear the responsibility of having prevented it. First of all, refusing to push for reform of state legislation, which we all believe was essential, and secondly, adding to the boycott to the Greek legislation that intended to fill the legal void left by the Government of Spain. You, like the Socialist Party, did not legislate or demand who had to legislate. Finally, in the month of October we have already asked the Central Government to update the organic legislation on health, and the response of the PSOE was that the Greek Government had not exceeded its competences, that this was a competence of the Central Government; and now the PSOE says that we present an autonomous law to confront and let us act a central government that has not acted and that does not act. Those are the great contradictions of the opposition here in Galicia, which seems to be the last thing that worries you is to manage this pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u114	...and saving lives, which is the common goal that should unite us all, and for what we need legislation or state or self-government. That's what this initiative is about, and that's what we propose with your approval. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, Mr Tellado, to this debate, I believe it is the seventh voter of the PP who is doing this debate in plenary, which he did the other day in the Commission. Well, at least he got better; the other day he had to recover an initiative from October, today he brings a more up-to-date one. What do we need about the legal situation that we are now living in, which seems to be the debate, because we've also talked about a lot of things, but not about the proposal. I'm going to mention something that's there in the proposal. We need basically three things: in principle, to clarify competences and control, and therefore those who have the ability even to sanction measures taken, essentially epidemiological control measures. This made almost all the autonomous communities last summer, not Galicia. They made it through a regulation. We, when the amendment of the Health Act began to be discussed here, said that there was a need for a regulation, and that we would also consider that, in spite of the fact that there was some change to the regulation, this regulation had to be here; 14 months and it does not exist. They have almost all the autonomous communities, almost all of them. Galicia, no, Galicia preferred a law to confront. So we need competences, because in addition to that famous amendment of the Health Act, even the municipalities that are unable to solve, the municipalities still have this problem even with the powers that this famous amendment of the law gives them, because the municipalities still do not have some competences to regulate, especially in the field of public spaces. And secondly, it is necessary to clarify who and what kind of action they can take, and on this there are two important issues. Practically all the measures that can be taken, practically all, of epidemiological control can be done under the current situation without any other issue than with the exception of self-government. So the second wave of the pandemic was controlled, without a state of alarm, and the result was what it was, we arrived in December and then in December the operation "Save Christmas" appeared but we arrived in December with good prospects, always within the existing drama and the most difficult circumstances we live in, but with good prospects. And it controlled the situation without needing to make any noise. There is a second part, smaller in number but very important in dimension, of the decision-making of the measures. What are they? The limitation of rights and freedoms. What about this country? Well, it happens in this country that an autonomous president can't stand up in the morning and limit rights and freedoms. Some would like to, but you can't. There are two ways to do it: one, through an extraordinary mechanism, because we live in an extraordinary situation, such as the state of alarm, and another through judicial authorization. Yesterday I set an example, the famous law of kicking at Mr. Corcuera's door. He argued and was well discussed because he was violating rights and freedoms and he didn't want judicial authorization, because here, the violation of rights and freedoms in this country still has to be done by organic legislation or judicial authorization, and in none of the situations we live in any of the days we have been absent from one of the two mechanisms. You can discuss which one thinks best, but it's not acceptable to say that we don't have any mechanisms; you can argue that we don't like them, but it's not right to say that we don't have them. Another thing is that someone thinks he can get up in the morning and say what he wants, and he doesn't. To limit rights and to limit freedoms, or state of alarm or legal authorization. The question is, if there's a state of alarm and PP doesn't want it and when there's no PP wants it, what would the People's Party today vote if they're going to extend the state of alarm? Because there is still no one to answer this, what would I vote for? That's the point. Because the People's Party has votes to decide, it can decide. Plus, he has ten Members in Madrid, eleven are told Néstor Rego. Decide. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can count whether you're in favor or against, what you can't be in favor one day and against another. But it's more, if he opts for the situation of judicial authorization, the Supreme has already claimed that he would validate the measures. What's the matter, then? The problem is, when the debate is so simple you can't make war, which is what the People's Party wants to do, make war on the Government of the State. Therefore, competences could have been clarified and not done, decision-making in general and mostly can be done without problem, and in some small parts, although very relevant, there is a state of alarm or judicial authorization. Now we're in the second part, in the judicial clearance. You might not like it, but we're there, and if you wanted the first one, you could say it. Third question: health improvements, because it's going to be that you forget that this is a pandemic caused by a health problem. Did your amendment to the law introduce any elements on improvements in health research? No, no, no, no. About the increase in stockpiling in prevention material? No, no, no, no. About the commitment to the manufacture of vaccines or products that can be resolved from the point of view of pharmacology or epidemiology in the health care sector future public health problems? No, no, no, no. Or are you guaranteed through the modification of the law the future organizational structure of a council to speed up decisions? No, no, no, no. None of that, because at the end of the day, this pandemic in the health plan, they didn't care much about changing the law. They changed a law only so Mr. Feijóo could stand up in the mornings and decide what rights or freedoms could restrict without requesting permission from anyone. Why? Because you're more about opposition in Spain than in Government in Galicia. If that's the problem, that you're going to be opposition in Spain and not in Government in Galicia, and, having all the possibilities of ruling in Galicia, you'd rather be in confrontation, and the confrontation is the one that brings these problems. So all of this solves the needs we have, but what happens? This confrontation may lead us to difficult situations. So the problem of confrontation is that today he came here using the images we saw this weekend, which we said yesterday that we were reprehensible, that they are also minority in global terms, that they don't have to do with Galicia in addition, but he tried to twist them over top of the Government of Spain, when we here even warned that it wasn't the Government of Galicia the responsible said, so we said, in addition, explicitly. And besides, there were no such situations here, Mr. Tellado, here there were them at very, very low level with respect to what we saw on television, very low. The people of Greece, Mr. Tellado, would you like the people of Greece to behave badly to throw it over Pedro Sanchez, but the people of Greece are far above what you expect of her. I'm on top of it. [[Applause]] Don't worry, if citizenship isn't going to be the problem, citizenship won't be the problem, it's going to be fantastic, it's doing it constantly, even if you're blaming things, the hosts first, the students later, the citizens at Christmas. No, that's not it. But, look, you are so much in the confrontation that the counsellor yesterday criticized and said that it didn't seem good to you to talk about it here in Parliament. You came here today to talk about this. It is true that he also said that he felt bad that Pedro Sánchez was -- according to Mr. Counsellor -- triumphalist for talking about what will happen in more than three months, at the same time that Mr. Feijóo said that in two months we would go without mask. Must be, that doesn't sound like a triumphalist to you. [[Applause]] You're in such a ugly confrontation, so ugly, that they end up getting entangled in their own struggles; no, they have no problem, others have changed laws, here nothing. Others...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u117	Silence! Mr. Tellado, then you have another turn to talk, right? Continue, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u118	Others, as they said before, as I set the example of other countries, have a loyal opposition. Do you know what happens to the laws of other countries that have to change? That they weren't as good as Spanish, that's what happened. By the way, a Spanish law against which you voted against. Do you know what's going on in other countries? That the oppositions from other countries, in Portugal, in Germany, in Britain, in France, in Italy, are not doing that war against the Government of the State, they are not in what Spain falls or that Italy falls that we already recover it, they're not in it, they're something else. You're still making opposition in Spain and not from Government in Galicia, and that's the problem. They don't clarify whether they want the alarm status. Look, it's just that you're so in the confrontation, because sometimes there's a debate, there's things I don't want to remember, but in this country you've done, here too, in this gallery, a debate about whether you're going to require the Government of Spain not to have a health reform, not that you have more resources, not that we're going to talk about vaccination, no, no, no, no, you're here you've done the debate of some plenary focused on whether Pedro Sanchez had to wear a black tie or not; that's what you're willing to get there to do against a government. Of course it's a frivolity, it seems to me a frivolity, like listening to Mr. Married, your head of line, at the December plenary session to say that it seemed fatal to you that the President of the Government would not congratulate Christmas. Well, look, the question is not to congratulate Christmas or the black tie, those are debates that have no repercussions, you're able to get to that. And like you, Mr. Tellado, you didn't talk about the proposal, I'm going to tell you, because at the end of the proposal, you have two points, a legitimate one, which is to ask you to embrace the law that you have proposed and that the Council of State decides to say that you have to take to the Constitutional, because you see signs of unconstitutionality, that this is what the Council of State basically says. The second part, which says that this is very important in relation to legal security, is that cautionary suspension is not applied basically, that is, your policy is doing; you want to propose something that the Council of State considers unconstitutional, that there may be a remedy, but that lets us apply it. Ah, legal security, it may be unconstitutional, but by the time they let us apply it and then we'll see. Well, basically when something is predictable or possibly unconstitutional, the normal thing is, at least it doesn't apply until it's known whether it can be worth or not, that's how legal security works...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u120	So we cannot vote in favour, but if we make a proposal through the amendment, which is to agree that it is settled and that we can legislate among all to have the best possible tools to solve the situation, that is our amendment and that we hope it can be approved, because it is a proposal for consensus to try to resolve the legal situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u122	Forget to confront, try to solve something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Carreira Pazos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u124	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. We come back here today to talk about the management of the pandemic, especially about the legislative tools that are needed for this management. I don't know if in the short time that has passed since the last debate of this charism that we had the People's Party had time to decide whether the state of alarm seems right or wrong, or whether there's already been a new sideline with which to complain about the State Government, because it hasn't just been clear whether the statements of twenty days ago by Javier Maroto in the Senate of "We'll vote against because the Spaniards in no longer stand is a sterile tool" to represent it or not. They complained about the President of the State Government's prediction of collective immunization, while the President of the Government of the Union launched the order that we will be without masks in the summer. Since the BNG we have made it clear that the alarm state is not the ideal measure, of course the alarm state itself is not sufficient to put a stop to the pandemic; it may be useful, especially one year ago at the beginning of the pandemic when we still didn't know very well how the events would develop, but at this point we need new tools. If there's anything to serve the alarm state, it's to confirm that old mantra that the Spanish state is the most decentralized in the world, it doesn't stop being more than half-truth or half-truth, as you'd like to see. The decentralization of the Spanish State is nothing more than a decentralisation and administrative relocation. With the application of the state of alarm it has been revealed as our country's decision-making, management, self-governance capacity has faded from night to morning; that the coup d'état disappears self-governance; and, the most serious, that self-governance disappears when we are talking about a matter such as health, which is exclusive competence of the German Government. By means of this figure, the Spanish Government put on the table, implemented the political decision to centralize competences in matters such as health, not only in this, but without the fact that autonomous communities have exclusive competences in some of these fields. And I point out that it was a clearly political and non-healthy measure, because the centralization of the single command has also strengthened the thesis of the Spanish State which is essential in the face of some autonomys that can be easily swept away, a message, in addition, which has been strengthened subliminally by the image that was issued from the Government; it is only to remember the press conferences that were made with a run of soldiers behind those who were aware of the health situation. And the message we have left is very clear: the important things manage them and you have to manage them in Spain. Here you can simply add details that cannot be profiled in Madrid. And in view of this, the position of President Núñez Fexoo was that he was clearly comfortable, he had the perfect alibi. They could divert the mistakes that were made in the management towards the central government, while he had, still had that role as a savior messiah, which did not flout much and which could recite a daily homily to guide the flock. And there is this Government, in the policy of the complaint, in that they do not allow it to do but not do anything, nor exercise what it has competences and what it can do, a Government that is totally comfortable with the delegation, with the transfer of competences to Madrid. We talked about it yesterday in this same gallery, not a single competition during the twelve years of Mr. Fexoo's Government, no reinforcement in the powers already given, and it became clear what the vote was. The capacity of the People's Party to renounce the Government on Galicia is truly overwhelming. Since the BNG we believe that the Greek Government has to be capable, it has to have tools to be able to manage this health crisis or any other crisis that may come. We have found that centralization is not more effective in managing, rather the opposite, and that the tools we have today are not enough, because we have already seen with ease that can be suppressed, either the coup d'étre, or the court coup d'état. We have the right as a people to take responsibility for our situation, to decide on it, to apply the health measures, in this case, which can be considered. And the only time the self-government was agreed upon and the health crisis could be managed since Galicia was precisely the reform of the Health Act. The reasons why the BNG opposes this reform I think have already been said, were made clear, but I'm going to repeat it, because perhaps on this side of here they haven't been well explained. A reform of the Health Act has to bring health measures, not what was done by the People's Party Government. For a whole year, they were appealing to the need for reform to supposedly have proper tools to deal with a pandemic, a reform that was essential and what was put on the table was only restrictive and punitive measures. For a pandemic we need health laws, health laws, not law of public order. And that's why we're opposed to this reform, because, on the one hand, it's a cut in rights, and on the other hand, because it's not about health care, it's not about health care personnel, it's not about infection control, it's about epidemics, it's about pandemics, it's just about sanctions that go hand in hand with those rights cuts. It's not about looking for legal boxes, it's about that this rule doesn't meet the needs of the pandemic, and the laws have to respond to demands, to the real needs of the Greeks and the Greeks in this case, not to a mere whim of who is ruling. But now they fill their chests by saying that Mr. President Sánchez does not allow them to exercise their right to self-government, that Madrid prevents them from acting, that because of the state executive they cannot manage the pandemic. At what time of the year and peak that we took with Covid between us did the self-government wake you up? When does self-government usually wake you up? Or is the demand for self-government now just a new line of confrontation with the central government? And let me take the words that my comrade Montse Prado said yesterday from this same rostrum: I'm surprised that a pandemic had to come so that the People's Party would realize that the autonomic framework is not useful for solving the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, even though what is good for them is to make themselves outraged by the lack of instruments of the Union, because what they have is demonstrated on too many occasions that they do not want competence, that they decide Madrid. What happens is that Madrid decides what it feels like, and that's the problem. What is unreasonable is to let decisions make them and then come to complain that decisions are not the right ones. I've already commented on it in the previous plenary session, also in the 5th Commission, where we try this time, and this is going beyond playing tennis between San Caetano and Madrid. It's going to address the real needs of people, who have the health system, to address the issues that the pandemic is putting on the table, both the management of infection, vaccination itself, and the rest of the pathologies, especially mental health, the chronic pathologies that have changed their follow-up. Paying attention to the condition of the patients, meeting the condition of the professionals, who have been working on totally adverse conditions for 14 months, even at some time indignant, breaking the back so that we can get out of the way. We agree that more tools are needed to be able to act in the health crisis. The first of them, to strengthen Welsh public health, with more staff, with more resources and more budget, but knowing that decisions have to be made here, taking into account our needs and our circumstances. The tools and the management of the health system must necessarily be of Sergas, they cannot be reviewed in public order courts or in Madrid's offices. That is why we tabled our amendment, in order to require the Government of the State to make the necessary changes in legislation so that the competence of the health system is fully Greek, that it is not a competency to remove and put, that at a time of calm it can be given, but that in the face of the crisis it must necessarily return to the hands of the State, which is the one who makes the important decisions, as we have been shown. It is of no benefit to claim self-government with a reform of the Health Act, while at the same time becoming a profile when that self-government is actually taken away from us. So we hope that the People's Party Group will consider our amendment, because, if not, what comes to show again is that what matters is not self-government, nor did it ever, what they care about right now is having a new canteen, a new cupboard to confront Madrid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreira. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u126	Thank you, President. It's all clear, perfectly. Mrs. Carreira, the BNG's defense of Galician self-government is exhausted when they have to align with the Galician People's Party and the Galician Union. You're more sectarian than nationalists, you're a pandeary nationalism, and that's why you're not useful to Galicia. You are able to defend that we have no legitimacy in this Parliament to give us laws so as not to contradict Pedro Sánchez. You are the footmans, only useful to Mr. Pedro Sánchez; this has become the Galego Nationalist Block, led by Mrs. Ana Pontón. You are a footman in the service of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. Sectarism is greater than Galicia's defense, in which it summarizes the entire Galego Nationalist Block of Ana Pontón. Doctor Torrado, with which frivolity he assumes the debate of such an important matter when people are dying every day, what frivolity! You're the most like, I've already told in commission, to Dr. Coté, to that fake doctor of Ferrol, because you use the same modus operandi, you talk about hearings and try to fool people, that's the way you do politics. Look, if you confront it is to defend the health of the Greeks, we're going to confront those who need it, that's reality. If you think that a regulation is more a guarantee than a law, you want to take your hair off the entire citizenship of this country. Look, you represent here the Government of one or two cases at most, to the government that we have overcome the virus. That's the government you represent here, that government that got away, because in full pandemic he sent the Minister of Health -- nothing more and nothing less! -- from candidate to Catalonia, and sent the second vice president -- nothing more and nothing less! - candidate for the Community of Madrid. That is what concerns you, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the management of this pandemic. Government to escape, example of irresponsibility. And do you know what happens in this context? That of this government, which is neither expected nor expected, no one expects anything from him. [[Murmurs.]] Look, while that government delegated the management of the pandemic entirely in the autonomous communities, it was willing to organize from the Moncloa motions of censorship in three autonomous communities, dedicated in addition to managing the pandemic. That's not confrontation, Mr. Torrado, that's not confrontation. That is an example of absolute institutional disloyalty, of the Socialist Party, which is neither party nor socialist, is unique and exclusively the defence of the interests of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, president of the flight, escaped from the management of this pandemic for 14 months. Mr. Torrado, you asked for active and passive action, you repeated in this House for active and passive action that the People's Party was against the state of alarm and that we were now complaining instead that the state had ended. Do you remember? That's what you usually say in these games. Look, that argument is such a rude simplism, Mr. Torrado, that it isn't even your own. From the very first moment we asked the Government for a reform of organic legislation on health to avoid having to depend on an exceptional mechanism such as the state of alarm. In the absence of that legislation that we demanded from the very first moment, or from one of Galicia's own people that you were engaged in blocking, the state of alarm was the only tool that allowed us to legally maintain those restrictions. In short, in the Galician People's Party, Mr. Torrado, we do not want a perpetual state of alarm, but we cannot have any measures that the state of alarm allows to apply. We are also not in favour of the legal void sponsored by the Socialist Party and Mr. Pedro Sánchez. Ladies and gentlemen, when time passes and this pandemic is a bad reminder, the Greeks will not forget how we each behave. The Greeks will not forget how the Government of the State has inhibited its responsibilities by refusing to manage the pandemic and refusing to legislate over the pandemic. And as he also tried to boycott the management of the administrations responsible who wanted to legislate. The Greeks won't forget how the Government spent that time trying to bring down self-government, while people were sick and people died in our country. The Greeks will not forget how the Government has devoted itself to reading surveys, instead of reading epidemiological parts. That's your government. But the Greeks will not forget the disloyalty of the Galego Nationalist Block, which passed the entire pandemic as mere observer and commentator of reality. Ana Pontón, waiting quietly for the comfort of this Parliament's carpet to make some mistake to come out and criticize him. That's his performance. In the morning, demanding stricter restrictions in Parliament and criticizing in the afternoon the harshness of measures with the lodgers. That's the summary, Mrs. Pontón, that's all your contribution here in Galicia. Yes, yes, that's his contribution. The Greeks will not forget the hypocrisy of the PSdEG-PSOE, which did nothing but applaud the evil management of a disappeared government, with Gonzalo Caballero more concerned about his brief political future than to defend Galicia's interests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u128	...who is ashamed of the Supreme Court, who recognizes the socialists as a morbid government and a lying government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it leaves portraits of the palm trees, like Mr. Arunguena, of the PSdEG-PSOE, who defended him to ridicule. But above all, I am convinced that the Greeks will not forget the enormous effort of the Greek people and the Greek Government, because the Greek Government has been from the very first moment to the circumstances,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u129	Finish, please, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u130	...because the Greek Government had the courage and responsibility to take the measures that were necessary at every moment, assuming the difficulty of ruling. And because the German Government has achieved, along with experts from the Greek Clinical Committee and the Sergas professionals, that Galicia is the autonomous community of the peninsula with a lower mortality rate. I'm sorry that the opposition parties...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u131	Thank you, Mr. Tellado, your time is up. Thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] What do you want the word for? Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u132	...give me the floor. The regulation does not say, it may give the floor. Say, he'll give a round of words for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u133	I'm sorry. If the President considers that the intervention refers to you and has a pesorative tone, and in this case I think it is not. It wasn't, it wasn't. [[Protests.]] No, no, palm tree for me is not pejorative. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, we're not going to the Royal Academy Dictionary now. I won't. No, I'm sorry. I won't grant it. Palmer, I don't consider him an offensive allusion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. No, it's over, it's over. I'm not gonna give it to him, I'm sorry. I don't think so, I don't think so. No, please, no, no, no, no, it was an allusion that I don't consider it offensive within a... I don't consider it to be, I'm sorry and that's it, I'm not going to give it to you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] No, I'm sorry, that... allusions value the presidency, that's what the Rules of Procedure say, when I judge the Presidency. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The matter is closed, Mr. Aranguena, the subject is closed. Let's vote, it's closed, it's closed. No, Mr. Torrado, I won't give you the floor. I wasn't in the debate, I wasn't in the debate. I don't know if Mr. Diego Calvo, who was presiding, thinks there's a reason I can give you the floor. No, because I wasn't, sorry. [[Murmurs.]] I'm not gonna do something that's not being, because if they don't tell me... because you're gonna tell me why you're like... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We are here trying to clarify certain issues. Don't let them clarify you. It's already quite complicated, we want to clarify it, so I'm asking the vice president, who I wasn't, don't get any more complicated about playing, please. Then you want to tone your own words. I'm sorry, give the scan a voice. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You want to explain, what?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u134	I wanted to ask the Presidency for the following word: my figure was compared to a convicted person, confessor and guilty author and accused of alleged murders. I think it is not appropriate, and I would like to ask the Presidency not to enter the debate on allusions, but if you consider the Presidency to be acceptable to withdraw it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u135	Well, what do you want the word for, Mr. Tellado? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u136	Simply if Mr. Aranguena seems an insult to the palmer word, and if that's the only objection he has about my intervention, I suppose he agrees with everything else, I withdraw the palmer word, of course. I withdraw the word palmer for parliamentary agreement. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u137	I could tell you before and we avoided this controversy. Now you tell me! [[Laughter]] Now she's withdrawn, I don't consider her offensive, eh! I'm going to stay in my position, I don't consider it offensive. That's why I didn't send her away; now, if he voluntarily removes her, perfect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The debate is dead, Mr. Aranguena, there's nothing else to say, he's retired. Please, please, let's vote. It's already quite complicated about this by a few... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? He said it wasn't Mr. Vice President, who was presiding. Self-presidency. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It must be so, it has autonomy who presides. I won't be presiding since the office. [[Murmurs.]] Voting of non-legislative proposals Well, we vote. We voted the non-law proposals and started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the Galician Socialists, for a Xabarin Club channel on Galician Television and better dissemination of child and youth programming in Welsh. There is a compromise proposal made by the People's Parliamentary Group. Don't you remember... did you come to that deal? We vote for that transaction. Vote for the transactional text of the GG Bill Proposal. PP. of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists for a Xabarin Club channel on Galician Television and better dissemination of child and youth programming in Galician. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. We are now voting for the People's Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Miguel Ángel Tellado. I don't know about the amendments, if they're accepted... Amendments are not accepted. We vote. The self-amendment is included, you will not vote against your own amendment. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] It could be, but it's not. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand by the German Government to the Central Government for the construction of a ship of maritime action for the Spanish Navy on Navantia shipyards in the Ferrol River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. As a result, this proposal was adopted, not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u138	Of course, of course, a lot of things have to be done. [...] of the Nationalist Block... -- Things are complicated and you have to understand it, it's moments of some tension and we also live here. This happens to anyone, eh! I had to be here --. Well, the third one. We voted for Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, initiative by Mrs Olalla Rodil. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, on the assumption by the German Government of direct public management of the oldest residences that will be built in the seven main cities of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We are now voting for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. The motion for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socalists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the grants called for in 2021 for the creation or improvement of infrastructure in the municipalities of Galicia with a population of less than 20,000 inhabitants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera. Here, I am told by the Vice-President that points 1, 2 and 5 of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are accepted as an addendum, and in the People's Parliamentary Group it is accepted as an addendum to point 1. Is this correct? Do you agree on this? Do you all agree? Of what? [[Pause.]] There's no deal? So we voted with the addendum that was accepted by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact on the citizenship of the process of restructuring and banking concentration that is taking place in Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 13; votes against, 42; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado's initiative. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block are not accepted. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Encarnation Amigo Díaz and thirteen other Members, on the demand to be made by the German Government to the Central Government in relation to organic legislation on public health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 42; votes against, 13; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Institutional declaration They've finished voting here and I'm going to read you an institutional statement that brings the groups to me about the situation of the Palestinian people, and that says, "With the galley of the anniversary of the beginning of the exodus of the Palestinian people, which is celebrated on May 15, the Galician Parliament demands from the international community that Israel: Compliance with United Nations resolutions. The absolute respect for the human rights of Palestinians and Palestinians. The absolute respect for the collective rights of the Palestinian people. The recognition of the right to return of persons and communities to the lands and houses of which they were expelled. We demonstrate our firmest commitment to the inalienable rights of the person, to freedom and to the fullest respect for human dignity. The Galician Parliament will spare no effort to contribute from Galicia to building a fair international order under international legality, a world in which the force is always subject to law. Santiago de Compostela, May 12, 2021" Thank you very much. [[Approved by consent.]] And we continue with the agenda, interpellations. Interpellation by Mercedes Queixas Zas, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the use of the language of Greek as a vehicle language in teaching To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Mercedes Complaints from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u139	Congratulations, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. A decade later, socio-linguistic reports and evaluations reveal a certainty: the failure of the current education language policy. We watch the signing of an act certifying the experience of each of us in our daily lives, because it is only necessary to live with attention to our language in order to verify their social reality. We've closed a decade that shows us a decade-long political story that has never been alien to at any time the vast majority of the Galician society that has lived and responded actively to the streets when it was summoned in a demanding context, either in individual action opening new paths to imagination, creation, transfer of knowledge and communication in a living and modern Greek as a useful language that it is. A proactive attitude that so well synthesizes the assertion of our honoured writer this 17th May, Gallegous Letter Day: the language is the main sign of a culture; the force of language and the force of our culture we cling to in the BNG. In the last decade, we have seen new Springs flourish for the language thanks to a committed people who resists succumbing to the shadow of the People's Party, who first chose to look through the rearview, unilaterally and without consensus a decree in teaching that limited their learning and again turned the classes into slots, particularly at the most delicate stage for the acquisition of languages, such as child education, and that up to now chose to look at the other side despite all the warnings of this decade. With this interpellation, today we want to ask you, Counselor, where you are going to look from now on in view of the evidence. He already told him by his day the Galega Council of Culture in an enlightening saying that called upon the Government to literally recover a broad political, social and institutional consensus, which alerted him of the trap of the label of his multilingualism when he understood that the introduction of a foreign language as a vehicle in a third of his teaching hours was, on the one hand, hasty and, on the other hand, it does not take place in a decree that should regulate the use of official languages, and that in time he invoked that his speech on language should cease to be formulated in terms of problem and the consensus reached in the general plan for normalization of the Greek language. You know as I am, Counselor, that I am reading literally, that these are not words of this Member or of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. He also told the Royal Galega Academy by qualifying its legislation for education as unacceptable, for it is a clear setback in the protection and promotion of the Greek language in relation to the vigorous, legally inconsistent legislation, irresponsible with the grave danger of turning the language issue into a cause of permanent conflict in Greek society and unsustainable since pedagogical and sociolinguistic rigor. You know I'm reading literally. He told him, therefore, that the Royal Galaga Academy by observing that his multilingual strategy is not only viable in practice, he says, but also it seems that such a trilingual flag is used to conceal the loss and educational subtraction of the Greek language. The Royal Gallega Academy, such as the Galician Culture Council, called this Government for dialogue and for the inclusive social agreement, inviting the establishment of a parliamentary commission to develop a development proposal in line with the General Plan for Standardization of the Greek language. And we still have to remember that many more voices have spoken in this decade. He was told from the Consultative Council, from the Galician School Council, from the Youth Council, from the three Greek universities, from the unions representing 90% of the professor, from multiple associations, collectives, institutions, platforms, from the ANPAs, and he was told by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, nullifying two articles strongly harmful to the Greek that you have feared to include in your decree of plurilingualism. [[Applause]] And in the meantime, despite all the voices, the PP alone, in front of everyone, decided to continue to write, if I may paraphrase the title of Mr. Gonzalo Torrente Ballester, the Chronicle of the Fascinated Government. Yes, a decade of overcrowded government that chose to block against the demands of minority postulates, more negationists from the far right, camouflaged in that pseudo-bililingual apology and whose name I am of course not going to quote in this House because the people of Greece have already taken care of in the past elections to leave them absolutely out of this Parliament. And in the meantime, the Galician society wants to be proud of its language by pushing the pulse into demagogy and holding, and I repeat again, the pulse and the firm verse of Xela Arias: "I declare myself inconformity." At the BNG we also declare ourselves every day of this decade inconsistent with this educational language policy. [[Applause]] In this black decade for our language, for the improvement of language competition in English for children and youth, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has also repeatedly been positioned, with simple reports of 2012, 2016, 2019, and still with a new mid-term assessment only a month ago, each time with a higher level of criticism of the Greek Government, in terms of teaching, fundamentally, but not solely, and with the breakdown in the use of the language of the country, which is a flagrant failure to comply with the European Charter of Regional and Minorized Languages. The Council of Europe urgently calls for the elimination of limitations on teaching in English at all precise educational levels and also for the publication of evaluation reports by the supervisory bodies in education. We asked you again, Counselor, have you fulfilled those mandates, have you delivered and prepared those reports? We keep asking and we keep waiting for them, because what we got last week after repeating it isn't the current one, it's the year 16; they don't intend to fire us, we walk the new hour, not the old one. Send us the 19th, please. [[Applause]] The European body reminds the Government that the presence of the Greek is insufficient in teaching, they know perfectly well, especially in pre-school age. It penalizes that in high school the great scientific areas, technology, it is forbidden to impart it in English, and again points out that we do not have the possibility of having an education entirely in Greek at any center. We asked him, first of all, what measures have he implemented? What actions are he going to put in place to respond to the demands of the Council of Europe? A report from the Council of Europe that we know that it will ratify again what has already come to us by indicating the Galego Institute of Statistics on the serious decline in competition and use of Greek. And we insist, of course, on that fundamental age that is childhood and that it becomes youth again. It's true that to a large extent because of the breakdown of the generational transmission, it's true, which, of course, we insist, leaves the school as the only possibility, in many cases and in more Spanish-speaking contours of the acquisition of the language itself and official, something that the current regulations prevent. And while you seem to remain unsatisfied, just as we have received answers today, the recent assessment of bilingual competition in the English and Spanish languages of the 4th ESO student recently published by the Royal Galaga Academy, to confirm something decisive, that the first promotion that you have studied all primary and all secondary education according to the regulation in the Multilingual Decree presents an important imbalance in competition in both official languages, clearly unfavorable to the Greek, because up to 35% of our student at the end of the compulsory education stage does not reach that dual competition. We're wondering what valuations does to the government, because we haven't heard them yet, we don't read them. Will they persist in this self-engagement?, will they continue to justify a language policy that clearly has just been demonstrated, to verify -- it is no longer opinionable -- that it does not work, or do you really think to establish some correction and correction mechanism? The main objective that it determines and the law of linguistic normalization and also the decree of plurilingualism itself is not met. It's invalidating its own rule, not achieving balanced competition in both official languages. It's urgent, therefore, to review the current educational framework, as it is clearly insufficient, to advance in language knowledge and therefore also in its normalization. And bet on a model that walks towards full use of Greek as a vehicle language in teaching, eliminating restrictions that prevent it, as the Council of Europe is remembering. The school is not the only place where you have to work tirelessly to keep the language, it's true, we agree, but although we know that it remains the fundamental space of socialization which must therefore have a central role in correcting the deficiencies within society that are limiting the knowledge and use of our language, because freedom of choice is not guaranteed to live in a language if there is no guarantee of full knowledge, confidence and security in its domain. We're done again -- because the days deserve it well -- with the strength of the verses of the honoured poet this May 17, "Certainly, life was going seriously," Xela Arias wrote. Indeed, the living future of the language goes seriously, and it depends on us, and depends on the political will of this government as well. Let's hope to know now from your own voice what this future project is for the Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam, you were talking about walking in the new hour or the old hour, the truth is, after listening to you, it's not the old hour, it's the hour before yesterday. Because the truth is he came here once again to raise a series of tremendously heard arguments, many times heard in hundreds of times, even I would say in this Parliament. And I think our vision is different from what must be a linguistic policy, what must be an educational model, and that's not either good or bad, it's just that the Greeks listen to us and you don't, because their vision isn't what most of the Greeks want. In any case, it is also true that around these dates, around May 17, it also repeats itself, like its arguments, a certain ritual with different initiatives, interpellations, questions related to the language. Usually complaining of tremendous mistreatment on the part of the Galician Union towards our language, towards our language. It's nothing new, it's very common. I, however, before beginning and concretizing, I hold them hand, and I would like to hold his hand. Why, because we must work positively, we must not have such a negationist vision and such a specific view only of the data that we are interested in seeing and obvious other data that I will put on the table in my exhibition. I think we should, and so we do, hold his hand to work positively for the Greek, for our language to promote, for her, but to do it in the Greek way. So, what's the Greek way? To do it in a positive way, to do it without exclusion and to respond to what Galicia is, to what we are here, an open, tolerant society, an inclusive society. And you're right, taking those words that the people are the most orderly, no doubt, the people are the most orderly, and the people are free, people are free, and they use the language in everyday use they want, you know very well. We can't impose on anyone who speaks one language or another, fortunately, in this society. It's also true that, not long ago, I answered a very similar question to this one in the past plenary; also the Secretary-General for Linguistic Policy appeared a few days ago in Commission 4.a, and I think that our position on language-related education is very clear, I think it can't be clearer, because we've been talking about it for ten years and always with similar arguments. The truth is, I would like today's debate to be more constructive, unless you come here talking about your book and trying to mobilize, as you said, to mobilize towards the traditional May 17 call. I, the truth is, I appeal to nationalism to make a reflection, a reflection of how it influences citizenship, how it affects people certain repetitive debates that on many occasions are alien to the concerns of this citizenship, and I want here because I want to bring the collation some statements of a person as respected as Ramón Villares, who tells us Ramon Villares? In very recent statements he literally says, "If the language continues to be a cause of political conflict, it is lost." Look, our language, we think of it this way, we think of it as it is present and it has the future, no doubt, and we have to work looking at the future, and our linguistic policy is based on three fundamental issues: the first, the respect to the normative framework; the second, the attention to feeling the majority of the Greeks and the Greeks; and the third, the bet on guaranteeing the future of Greek in all areas, and always from tolerance and always from people's freedom. And, of course, we work to adapt to new times, to create positive attitudes and, above all, to think about the younger ones, the younger ones. We have some challenges on the fundamental table; one of them, no doubt, is technological development. We want it or not, we're in an increasingly digitized society, the digital world is part of our lives, everyday life, professional life, absolutely. Yesterday, I'm sure you know, we presented a project that we understand tremendously important for the present and the future of language, and that will place our language at the level of other significant languages as English can be, as Spanish can be. We want Greek to be a living language that can be used in all areas and so this project, the We project, what we want with it is to place Greek in two fundamental areas: on the one hand, in artificial intelligence and, on the other hand, in language technologies. And this will make it possible to directly count on a resource bank so that applications can be developed later on to, as it is said, if I am normally allowed to talk to machines, which is fundamental in the present and in the future. I think we should bet on new generations, we should bet on the digital world, and I think this is certainly a good example of what must be a positive job. And the truth is that more and more Greek is used with total normality in very diverse fields. For example, another reference that I would like to bring, that of the president of the Galaga Academy of Audiovisual, who tells us that the perception about the language of Galicia is not the same; and put an example, which has also been published these days, like a very concrete film that was played in Greek if it debuted in Madrid in Greek with total normality, why? Because the language fortunately, the language in Galicia is no reason for confrontation at the general level; that is, there are some at one end of the political spectrum and spectrum, let's say, linguistics that want us to speak only in Greek, and others who want us to speak only in Spanish. Fortunately, the vast majority of Galician society wants to speak in both languages and it wants to learn the two languages, and that's our model, it's our own model, so to speak in some way. I think it's already known by everyone, there's no decree, I think there are very few decrees in the history of autonomy that they had and generated so many public debates, politicians, positions like the decree of Purilingism, and yet, in the end, the results are there and the results of the Greek model are there. And you talk about data and you always bring concrete references to specific data, with a very specific methodology. I'm going to bring data here which are made, which are made by international bodies, and that I think they leave us in very good place to Galicia and the Greeks, and it's the PISA report, it's a comparative report. What does the PISA report tell us? That Galicia is the community where the student speaks the two co-official languages more easily across Spain. What does the PISA report tell us? That 96% of the student claims to speak well or quite well of the Greek and being the first in front of all autonomous communities in Spain where there are two languages. And a very interesting fact that also says this report, that our Thursdays are the most tolerant and respectful of other cultures in Spain. Curiously in other autonomous bilingual communities is in the last positions, some models that you want to move in this case to Galicia. And here comes an absolute contradiction between the BNG speech that we just heard here and that we hear it repeatedly and reality. Why? Because you can question the educational language policy of the Galician Union, of course you can, but adorn it with as many disastrous qualifications as you do, not possibly when the reports of comparison with other autonomous communities put us in the head of knowledge, skills, use. Then something fails. Well, we can be very bad, and maybe the Greeks are very bad, and the Union is very bad, but we are the best in Spain! How are the others? How will the others be, Madam? Obviously, I'm sure you'll come here later by denying this data and saying it's not true. And I'm sure he'll put in a concrete partial study saying it's the Bible, too. As it is also common for you to never put on the table the data made by the Galego Institute of Statistics in 2019. And what do they give us this data? I'm going to repeat them, too, I think I said them at the last parliamentary session. For we are told that compared to the year 2019, with the year 2015 -- official data -- every certain years the number of speakers is increased, which is the majority language; that we have the highest competition rates in all autonomous communities in Spain with co-official languages, which today speak English more people in our community, than more than 51% of the population, or is monolingual or bilingual in English. And they grow -- which is tremendously positive -- bilingual uses, and which are normally used without designing a polar landmark between language and language. And I think that's what we should do, keep working on this line...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u143	...we must continue to use the language to communicate, to understand. Galicia and the Greeks are tremendously tolerant. And I'm the one who -- I'm done, Mr President -- I'm the one that I'm asking you to listen, ladies and gentlemen, to the references, as can be Ramon Villares; that we also see what our referents from sectors as globalized as audiovisual can be; that we bet on the future of our language, as we are doing precisely with a project like the We, which we presented yesterday; and as I said at the beginning, Mrs., ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, the truth is that we have a hand to work for the country, to work for our language...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u145	...and to work for our culture. And that ultimately, ladies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u147	...is working for our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u148	Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u149	The objective of an interpellation, Counselor, is to ask questions and get answers, and I got absolutely no answer to the questions that I... neither first formulated in writing nor now formulated orally. [[Applause]] I'm deeply sorry. [[Applause]] The problem is we don't have a different view of language policy applied to education, you know that's not the problem. The problem is not having different visions, the problem is checking now scientifically and empirically that your project does not work, that does not get the needed results. What you say, the results of the Welsh model are actually there, they're there and we don't like them, we want to change them because they're not good, because they don't guarantee the knowledge of the Greek. The report notes that the language model in the education system is consolidating existing imbalances rather than compensating them, that is what this assessment says. An evaluation signed by the Royal Galega Academy from a fundamental project, as you well know -- even though it gives its head a negative sense, which seems to me to be a lack of sovereign respect, sovereign!, by the institution, I honestly tell you -- that is one of the many conclusions that are in that study and that I don't understand how the Government has not yet spoken. Tell you he's got his hand stretched out. Look, the tending hand is in the Galego Nationalist Block because we have 7 tables of the 4th Commission on Education and Culture, demanding that society's collectives come here to explain what this proposal is for language policy, for linguistic normalization in teaching. [[Applause]] And continually what we hear is the veto and the word "no", the system denial, the system negationist position, because they don't like it, and they've already made it clear from the presidency that they're going to do what you think, democratically ignoring what we think or think. [[Applause]] I think it's very nice that you're talking about that project. We're very welcome. I'm hopeful that I'm walking too -- because the concern is, as it is logical, that the language of Greece enters the field of technology, pointer --, I'm hopeful, I insist, that they start by eliminating the prohibition of imparting technology in English, because it seems an absolute contradiction in terms. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And something very important in this project is -- you said -- that will allow us to speak in English to machines. What the data tells us is that every time children and girls know how to talk less, then it doesn't matter whether the machine is willing or prepared to listen in English if we don't have people who are qualified with language skills to speak to the machines in English as well. [[Applause]] And before machines people, please, we value people and interpersonal communication. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, they didn't make any statement regarding this first assessment, which you didn't, failing your decree, which is the knowledge of language competence from compulsory education. They didn't make any mention, they ignored a scientific study signed by the Royal Galician Academy, i.e. they ignore reality. They don't agree with those results, because then let's get to work and work for others, change what is really necessary. How are we not going to keep claiming that they're putting the job to work for something that's not right? Of course, the Galician Nationalist Block will say it every day and not just on May 17, as you do!, which seems to only choose this date to announce for now some media headline and some photograph. Then it's about to see if the project We can go ahead or not depending on the budget at European level, and the next generation funds, etc. We can only ask them -- and so we'll elaborate on the next motion in the next plenary -- that they abandon that negationist bunker in which they've been absolutely involved for over a decade. They're sponsoring a school of disqualification and you know it, and you have to answer this, you have to listen to society. In fact, they govern most of the society that wants the Greek to have a much more prosperous future, and that especially wants the school to be the guarantor of that knowledge even when it can no longer be the family, because there is no family transmission. They know precisely that there is one of the great things about it. It's not working this language policy in teaching, they recognize it, nothing happens; their project has no credibility and it's already evaluated. And, look, since the BNG obviously we're not going to ask him for more accounts, we're not going to ask him to make the amendment purpose, or the act of contrition, really not. We're just going to ask them to do something, to start a recovery process, to restore the tools that allow our language to be learned from school. And I'm going to finish by recalling some words from Alvaro, a student of mine from the past course of the Sardinian Institute, of the Coruña, where I arrived after 20 years working on an educational and social rural environment like the CPI Mayor Xosé Pichel of Coristanco. I didn't believe that my first undergraduate student for the first time in my professional education life wasn't able to maintain solvently and loosely a little conversation in English; I didn't give credit, and often I admit that I was angry. And when we did a joint evaluation in December, and I revealed my doubts as to how possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u151	...that boys and girls of first bachelor's were not able to have full control and knowledge of their language, Álvaro said to me, "Prophew, it's not our fault; they take us as a challenge, please, for the rest of the course." Well, I ask them the same thing, they assume this as a challenge and work for the Greek.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the gap, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is -- as I've said before -- we've spent many years, many parliamentary sessions, many debates listening to the BNG practically say that we kill the Greek language simply because we have a way of defending it differently from yours, and because you think that only you are worthy or speaking in Greek, or being Greek, and they're only worth their model. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth is -- I insist -- they've been attacking the decree of plurilingualism for years... for three years... for sex years and five years. And the truth is that sometimes they wear sheep's skin, but they always return to their less inclusive, less respectful and less tolerant version. And here's what BNG says, from there you talk about negationism. And I just gave some data where you say institutions like the OECD with the Pisa report, the ministry itself, the IGE... when you don't like the data they say: bah, that's a total nonsense of data, that's the OECD, that's Pisa, that's the ministry, of course... that's not worth, that's not worth... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, well, that data tells us that the Greeks have the highest levels of skills of use, skills in the linguistic field in both official languages. But you're not worth it. Okay, perfect. We are the most and best known and used both official languages within our autonomous community compared to other autonomous communities in much higher data -- they're not worth --. Well, now if this doesn't work, if this isn't a working result, tell me what's your model, only English?, that Spanish isn't a vehicle language? What is the problem with learning English and Spanish as well, and there is a trilingual model that allows a foreign language to exist within the public education system? What's the matter? We didn't understand that. And to say that Greek doesn't learn in school... listen, there are hundreds, thousands of teachers in Greek. I'll have to worry. [[Murmurs.]] I'll have to worry if they don't learn our Greek students in class. [[Murmurs.]] Official data really contradicted your speech. And, look, you're constantly saying that there are limitations to use, that there is no bilingual model, etc. I'm going to put a figure that your Socialist Party partners have done apart, that they rule with you whenever they can in every place. [[Murmurs.]] What does this Government of Spain report say that it has indeed been sent to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe? [[Murmurs.]] What's he saying? Well, he comes to say that in Galicia there are no limitations on teaching English -- he says so -- but there is a bilingual education system. [[Applause]] We are what we defend, a bilingual teaching system that opens the door to a foreign language that can be used vehiclely. You don't, that's the difference; but that's why you don't think they're better Greek than us, don't think! or that they're more Greek than we do, don't think so. You just have one model and we have one model, and our model, which is a model itself, results, let's see it compared to the rest of the autonomous communities. [[Murmurs.]] And, by the way, here we have to work, and that's my challenge, which we throw them to work in a positive way, to work for the future, to work in every field. At school, of course. The school and the education system guarantee full knowledge of Greek, with oral skills, written without any problems. All reports say it, everyone. We work in use, we work in the socialization contours of youth. For example, what we presented yesterday, our project is fundamental to youth, of course, also to older people, because you can develop applications of very different kinds, all necessary and important. And our model, as I say, is a model that is based -- let's say it on many occasions -- if it's based on balance, if it's based on respect, it's based on coexistence, it's based on the ability of students to get out speaking English and Spanish without any kind of problem, that they have knowledge, skills, skills. And, I insist, the results of our language policy say we still have, we have the highest competition rates in all autonomous communities with co-official languages. That's what the ministry data says and what the OECD data says in the PISA report, which you already know doesn't like. In any case, you, as I mentioned here on several occasions to Xela Arias, to whom we will pay tribute. We're already paying a lot of tributes, and on the 17th we've honored her; I think she was a person who since modern times has always sought a balance. What does Xela Arias tell us? [[Murmurs.]] Xela Arias comes to tell us that we must investigate, we must look for points of encounter and points of advance and not to rub ourselves, and not to rub ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u154	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u155	Because in the end, and as I also said in one of his poems, "Inquiring is a human function that gives feet to build us better." Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, ladies and gentlemen, let's look to the future, work for our language, our culture, for us, work for our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u156	Thank you, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Question by Mr Paulo Ríos Santôme and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the policy of the German Government in relation to youth employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u157	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. We can draw a number of conclusions by going over a year from the beginning of the Covid-19 health crisis. On the one hand, the problems we face are structural and, on the other hand, we understand that capitalism is incompatible with life. In this time we see that they continue to dominate money, private interests above people's health and lives, and there are not few examples that make us believe this, being one very clear the business of pharmaceutical laboratories with vaccines, selling the best postman and trading with health despite having public money to develop the different researches. The pandemic has once again demonstrated the enormous capacity of the capitalist system to adapt and the good it plays by imposing The doctrine of shock, of which writer Naomi Klein had already spoken, taking advantage of times of crisis to carry out or accelerate its roadmap in seeking to increase its control and its benefits. In this case, it was the turn of the world of work, after the years when the offensive went through the relocation of production and backlog in labor rights, after the 2018 crisis, we found ourselves in a new offensive that lies in the digitization of the world of work and the deepening of the elimination of more labor and social rights and in new ways of exploitation. We also see again as public funds in principle reserved to alleviate the consequences of the coward-19 crisis will only serve to rescue the great capital and to carry out their roadmap with public money. The working class won't see a single euro of this fund. In the case of Galicia, they will be destined for the great capital that spoils our country, we call it Index, Ence, Endesa, Naturgy and a long et cetera. For those who don't have a job, for those who lose their home or for all that youth who have to emigrate to have a future worthy of this land, there's only one answer and I think you all know it: "Come on tomorrow." As I said on previous occasions, Covid-19 has put on the table the serious structural problems that we have in our country, with health in a weak state after years of cuts, public services in the process of dismantling and an unprecedented industrial crisis that deepens in our country's extreme dependence on the services sector, particularly with housing and trade. Youth is a sector of our society especially affected by the crisis we are experiencing, and, as I said before, youth does not face new problems derived exclusively from the pandemic, but it is experiencing an acuteization of the problems that I already had and that the People's Party of Galicia did not want or could not manage. With the arrival of Covid-19, we observed that working youth works at a high percentage in the service sector, suffering in a very remarkable way the first consequences of this health, economic and social crisis. We talked about a year with the destruction of nearly 20,000 jobs between girls aged 16 to 29, where only 2 out of 10 young women in Greece recovered their lost job because of Covid, with a very remarkable impact in the service sector with almost 10,000 jobs less jobs for youth than in 2019. So before this, we see a Union without real alternatives to youth, and this is what the Galician Economic Forum also speaks of in its March Conjunctural Report this same year, where we point to the unbearable dependence our country has on hospitality and trade, sectors where the weight of youth activity is very high and precarious and timeliness is the norm. Temporality remains the norm in the youth labour market in our country; this has exacerbated an emergency situation that affects our youth, with ridiculous economic independence rates that have been aggravated by this pandemic by being thousands of girls who were unable to accommodate ERTEs due to precariousness and temporality in their contracts. We Greek girls can't just eat tourism, hospitality or the service sector, and they're clear that we're talking about crumbs, not really eating. Only in this month of March did the temporary contracts signed by youth represent 87% of the total, while the undefined represented only 7%. After this pandemic year, youth accounts for less than 20% of the German labour market with less than 200,000 contributors. But this isn't just about the pandemic, as I said before; our country has lost half of the workers under 35 since Mr. Fexoo rules at the board and we're talking about around 236,000 people. We lived a historic fact in our country, but, as usual, for bad. At present, persons over 55 years of age exceed those under 35 in employment and activity. What's the future of a country that has this data? With this data on the table, what is the Galician Board doing to give young people a gift and a future worthy of youth? Well, absolutely nothing. It cannot be allowed as acceptable that the only thing that makes Galician Youth Union either give them training contracts or in practice, give them a FEUG to work precariously for businesses and institutions; and much less acceptable than the other offer that Union has for youth is immigration. He also spoke of the Galician Economic Forum, and it has already been mentioned at parliamentary headquarters, of the high economic and social costs for our country the systematic expulsion of young people from Greece to other parts of the world or even the state, which we also remember is also emigration, even if their data are not collected. We live in a country where every 45 minutes a girl emigrates. As we speak today in this plenary session, there are girls who are marching from our country. How many more are we able to hold them off? If we agree that employment, access to housing and emigration are the fundamental problems facing young people in Greece, why is there no forum for debate where government and youth can talk about these issues and have alternatives that improve the situation of young people? The problem is that this forum already exists and it's called the Galician Youth Advisory and Advisory Council -- I don't know if those who have been here longer now sound this advice -- and who have as their powers the debate and drafting of reports and proposals on these specific matters. This body has not met since 2014, dismantled by the People's Party after the bipartisan and abandoned shortly thereafter so that youth had no voice in their problems. Why does the Government of Galician Unity despise our youth? Why does it choose between precariousness and emigration and destroy all the forums of participation? I've said it once, but the difference, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counselor, between ruling and ruling is to worry about society as a whole, even why you don't vote for them. I know that Mr. Balsairo likes this, but they don't despise and punish the Galician youth in a luck of revenge for not voting for them. They rule and don't just order. To bet on youth is to bet on the future of this country; not to do so is to condemn us to irrelevance and death. Regulation of the hospitality service sector, industry, research, and not deepening the colonial model that they have designed for us. Youth is seen as a cheap and specialized workforce for foreign capital. It is necessary for the Galician Union to develop and exaggerate concrete measures to rescue our youth from the current emergency situation. We need to exonerate the derogation from the various working counter-reforms that are precarious and remain entitled to working youth, we need a new course focused on supporting research, closing production cycles and generating value added on our land. We need to end up with our country's dependence on sectors such as hosting and regulating them. We need, ultimately, Counselor, a country that is aware of its specific reality and a Greek Government that acts on this reality with its own mechanisms and tools. What we don't need is to remain a colony, a theme park for foreign capital, for the extraction of energy and raw materials at the cost of balance; a cheap and specialized labour factory or a kind of vacation retreat with a low-cost industry that only brings precariousness and does not generate wealth in our country. Leave, Counselor, the roadmap of neoliberalism and imperialism and get to work for this country and its youth. I know you might want to get to that point, so there's nothing to work on, but the young people in Greece and the BNG will always be in front and won't let them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u158	Thank you, Mr. Rios Santomé. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Ms. Maria Jesús Lorenzana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u159	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Mr. Paulo, you base your intervention on the data contained in the report of the Galician Economic Forum, and the data you refer to in March of 2021. Look, if you had taken the job of reading the report, you'd see that the report is a non-official record data analysis, to begin with, but it's a data analysis of the EPA survey and makes a comparison between 2019 in its four quarters and 2020. I mean, you're here actually giving a series of data that are not current data. He's, therefore, totally... deceiving -- I think -- with all the statements he makes below. So, in order to start talking about youth employment, I think we need to first clarify the actual data in April 2021 and the data contained in the registers of public employment services and social security records. EPA has value, of course, it has statistical value, it has economic value, it lets it analyze sectors, it lets it analyze how social tissue and economic tissue is developing, but of course it's not valid and much less when you analyze it out of date to do the considerations that you just did right now here. So, unemployment data; currently registered unemployment data on Thursdays: 20,935 unemployed under 30 years of age in April 2021. This represents about the total population in Galicia, about 170,000 people, 12.26%. We're six points from the average or the national rate. On average, the State has 18.61 % unemployed under 30 years of age. If we look at the number of unemployed under 30 in April 2021 compared to the previous month, it came down in a special way among the juvenile population, a drop of 12.27%. If we make this comparison, on an annual basis, with respect to April 2020, i.e. the peak of the pandemic, we see that the number of unemployed under 30 years of age decreases by 22.67%, i.e. 6,139 boys and girls less unemployed. If we compare this data to the average of the state, we see that in April, indeed, with respect to the previous month, there is a decline, but much lower in the state, of 1.65% of unemployment, but with respect to one year, when, as I told you, in Galicia we went down to 22.67%, the state average increases the unemployment rate of children under 30 years of age by 3.15%. We're talking about a total of 53.12% of youth unemployed less than April of the year 9, the first legislation; 52.32% of youth unemployed less than our second legislation; and 11.56% less of youth unemployed than the third. The increase in membership, with respect to the previous month, compared April to March of the year 21, has 1,383 memberships more than 30 years of age. The number of contracts under 30 years of age was also increased by an intermediate level, April compared to March of this year, at 11.72%. You speak of the temporality of contracts and also, in your written exposition of the appeal, of the pay divide. Since April 2020, undefined contracts of under 30 years of age have increased in Galicia by 218.21%. 1,246 new indefinite contracts more than Thursday since the health crisis began. With regard to salaries and data from the Tax Agency, the average wages of the Greeks have increased in recent years by 3.76%, with younger workers reaching a higher rate of rise. In 5.34 between the ages of 18 and 25, and up to 4.38 more among the employed between the ages of 26 and 35. Finally, as a general rule and a given of employment that you say here and which also marks in the written exhibition, you speak of 15,000 jobs less in just one year, when it is on the contrary, and the president said it here today in his first question: Galicia has recovered 27,000 affiliations from the peak of the pandemic crisis, 27,000 memberships in Social Security; it is more, we have more affiliations that fall from unemployment, because the fall in unemployment is at 20,854 unemployed less, which clearly indicates that their speech that the unemployed go to a situation of inactivity is not true, because there are more affiliations, so there is more back to the activity, social security data, which falls from unemployment. You also speak of the services sector as being the most affected and all these alleged job losses, which are not real, are in the service sector. The service sector, after construction, is the sector most recovered in the health crisis, which is logical, because 75% of the employment in Galicia is in the service sector; it would be impossible to have these unemployment and affiliation data if it wasn't because the service sector is precisely the most recovered. They're asking about the Youth Employment Strategy of the Joint Government. The youth employment strategy of the Government of the United States and the Employment Council is mainly about active employment policies, linked to the training of young people to improve their integration into the labour market, but above all to improve the quality of jobs and to consolidate jobs. Of course, we will continue to maintain incentives to hire young people and girls in companies and continue to support youth enterprise. As far as training is concerned, we are going to extend the grants of training and learning contracts, which so far know there was a youth guarantee programme for workers under the age of 30 with social initiative entities and with municipalities, and we are going to extend it to the ordinary company. We are talking about EUR 8 million that we are going to hire 700 new Thursdays in Galicia in ordinary companies, contrary to what the Ministry of Labour is announcing, which aims to make these contracts but again in the Administration. What we're trying to do is to incorporate Thursdays into the productive fabric of the ordinary company. We have, of course, added to these grants, as I say, the grants of EUR 7 million for youth guarantee workers in municipalities and social institutions, whereby we duplicate the budget for training and apprenticeship contracts for young people and girls in Galicia. On the other hand, we make digital training more flexible, with e-commerce training courses for self-employed people under 30 years of age who want to reposition, modernize their business activity; it's 300 squares reserved exclusively for Thursday in this digital training. And we're adjusting the vocational training for employment that our young people and our girls are going to receive to adapt it, as I say, to the needs of the labour market. On the one hand, to give specific training to young people in strategic sectors that have a job offer; and on the other hand, in profiles and competences demanded by the Italian productive fabric through the analysis we are conducting with two complementary works: the study of emerging technologies and the planning of capacities of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. We will, of course, continue on the edge of these training policies, with regular incentive programmes, the Employment and Youth programme, which is EUR 2 million for aid for the recruitment of up to EUR 6,000 for indefinite contracts of Thursday and 3,000 for temporary contracts of one year. And also, of course, with self-employment incentive programmes, where support for self-employed people, girls and young people duplicate the support we give to the other self-employed people, they are €4,000 for new highs in the network. And then you were talking about that we don't have dialogueal bodies to treat youth employment, and in particular you were talking about the Youth Council. Look, in Galicia we have three forums of clear participation with social agents, with which we are negotiating each and every one of the employment programmes and, of course, the other economic programmes of the Union: the Galician Social Dialogue, the Galician Self-Government Bureau and the Galician Social Economic Forum. If you do not consider these three bodies valid and you think it is best to treat employment policies, although they are for children under 30 years of age, in the Youth Council, I think you should carefully review the competences of the Social Dialogue, the Bureau of Self-Government and the Social Economic Forum, and what are the competences of the Youth Council. And they also talk about juvenile migration data, which doesn't match the actual data in the statistics either. The latest migration statistics show that Galicia recorded a positive migration balance larger than the entire historical series than 32%. Of the 16,918 people who came from abroad, half, 8,420 are less than 30 years old, and this is to be added that about 73% of the people who arrived in Galicia from abroad are under 45 years old. Nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u160	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Ríos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, what I referred to in the report by the Galician Economic Forum is what they published in March, I was not referring to whether they were in March or whether they acted on those specific dates. The data I gave later on March, on the signed contracts, are the data of the EPA, as you said, and the EPA is the reference analysis of the European Union. I thought the one who didn't like the European Union was the BNG, not the People's Party. I understand that, at least, if it's the European Union's reference analysis method, it looks something, or I think we could give it some credibility. I've already told you on other occasions, or in another interview we had on this subject, the data problem when you're completely confused, when you don't talk about reality and when you're just left in numbers, because we're not interested in knowing what's really going on. At the rate of unemployed, logically, you don't include at any time, especially when you compare it to the year 2009, etc., etc., to sell that everything is very good and that the People's Party at the Galician Union can everything and everything manages it, of course, there if we throw out all the data of youth emigration, all the people who are no longer registered or even unemployed, because you understand that you don't even deserve it, what are we talking about? Try to discredit the arguments made by this group by claiming on the one hand the lack of work and the lack of revision of the data, which seems so somewhat like a counselor's coming, but at least because they're going to put data on the table and consider that we don't have them and we don't work them, at least they're real. He's talking about signed contracts, he's talking about a rise in membership of Social Security. You forgot to say that this rise is essentially in the age of 45, I understand that for this debate it has no relevance; it's only right to say that it's all right and that it's all done. And indeed, the Galician Board, as I said earlier, is giving grants to sign seven hundred and some contracts, if I am not mistaken that you told ordinary companies, I understand that the pull that throws me from the Ministry of Labour is for the other side, I am from the BNG, therefore, the theme of the Ministry of Labour because, well, we make more criticisms than you without any kind of problem. But on that question, indeed, employment contracts are being signed, less, we can value it, but in what kind of employment contracts, under what kind of conditions? They have a grant of seven, eight, six million euros to make those seven hundred and something work contracts for new people, under what conditions? They talked about it a few months ago in this same inquiry, giving public money to private companies to hire them in precarious terms. Is that the youth employment model that drives Galician Union and that model of what you're proud of? Because if I don't, I don't understand. If that's the case, perfect! we sit down another debate and that's not what he said before he didn't know how to do it, but rather not want to fix the situation. He also spoke before the juvenile migration data. In fact, the Galician Economic Forum itself reports in its report on the phenomenon of the loss of talent in our country published at the end of last year, saying that there are no tools needed or that it does not provide them to the Board at the statistical level in order to have a concrete and real data of the migration that takes place in our country. So I understand you don't care about it, I understand you don't want to give that data, because if you don't, you're already looking at it in the second place, in the second place, at all, because it wouldn't be so simple. Put that data on the table and please contain emigration at once as well as the escape to other parts of the state, to other parts of the state, because that is not considered emigration. It's all nonsense. I don't know, I understand that they don't want to understand the arguments that are given, and especially reality, they don't want to see it, they don't want to take it, the reality that lives up to the young people in Greece and they're shielding themselves in this bunch of undisturbed data, promises that aren't worth anything, especially when they talk about it, that we're signing, I don't know how many contracts for young people, I don't know how many millions of euros, and so that young people are three, six months, working on a company with ridiculous wages, and that's their work experience, that's what encourages Galician Union. That doesn't make any sense to us. We're not generating any kind of decent job, minimally stable job, and with the wage difference, it points to a rise in the income that young people get from what the rest of societies get, we're still far below. Not only is it enough to say that we're going up 5%, but how much we're from the rest; that we're going up, perfect, but how much are we from the rest? Maybe you forget to say that, just like a lot of other data. We count the part that stays right on the headlines, that it looks good to say that the board does everything right and yet, when we go to the second part of the data or when we're going to scratch a little more in the data, things fall by their own weight and youth is clear this situation, youth doesn't know where he's going to work in a month, two, three, if he's going to have to get out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u163	...because here he has no life. That's the real problem. I'd already said in the previous intervention, in the other interpellation, that reality likes to impose its criterion. They go down a little bit to reality, talk to young people and they'll know what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Ríos. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u165	Thank you, President. Well, now tell me that you were talking about EPA, that the data you were giving were from EPA, as I said. I didn't talk about EPA data, I shouldn't understand it; I talked about data in logs both of the Employment and Social Security Service. I haven't talked about EPA as I explained, because it's statistical data from a population sample; by the way, a population sample that goes from 15 years old sine die to the end of the person's life. If you pick up EPA data and the unemployment rate in Galicia comparing it from 16 to 64 years old, you'll notice that we're 70 percent, exactly like the state is. So, to talk about EPA -- that when you want to talk about EPA -- you also have to be able to analyze EPA. I haven't come here to sell anything, as you just said, nor have I come here to give you any of those data, data that stays right on the headlines. The data I gave are data contained in the Social Security records -- I repeat -- and in the National Employment System records. So if people aren't unemployed, you say that that's why the unemployment rate goes down here; no, I'm telling you, if there's 20,000 less people in a year unemployed, there's 27,000 more memberships, which means that this population is still in the range of activity. It doesn't go to the inactivity range in terms of EPA -- as you say --, but they're still active; more, they're busy because they're affiliated. With regard to training and learning contracts, I haven't talked about training and learning contracts within employment policies for young people's occupation, if you set up what I said; I talked about training and learning contracts within the training part. So, I'm not thinking about using Thursdays through training and learning contracts, what I'm telling you is that, of all the money that's going to come to Galicia within the training part -- because from State employment they're only coming last year -- we're going to allocate part of that training part to training and learning contracts, which are what they are. They're training but with the advantage that they also have on Thursdays a high in Social Security and they're running around. And this, in your opinion, is a film or a figure that encourages the Galician Union. Look, training and learning contracts with different denominations have been invented a long time ago and are being used throughout Europe. So it seems that we are all wrong across Europe and that training through these contracts is not useful; you know the BNG how to train, the rest of Europe we are all wrong: it's Galicia, it's the Ministry of Labour too. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] When I talk about the Ministry of Labour, I'm not talking about the Ministry of Labour because of the person or political party in the Ministry of Labour. What I am telling you is that, compared with what the Ministry of Labour does, it will also use money for training in training and learning contracts, because it is European policy, because the European employment strategy goes around and so we are doing all European countries; but, in contrast, in Galicia the Government of Greece, in addition to using Thursdays through these training and training contracts in administrations, we will also incorporate them into the company as training policy, not as a policy of occupation sine die of Thursdays in these contracts. I'm going back to data, youth unemployment data in Galicia. Galicia has a unemployment rate of under 30 years of 2.9 percentage points lower than in the state: Galicia, 27.3; Spain, 30.2 -- with the EPA that you like --. The number of unemployed in April 2021 fell in a special way among the youth population -- these are unemployed data --, 22.67 % less juvenile unemployment in Galicia than the annual rise of 3.15 percent of the state average. And that's why I think because the decisions we're making earlier than the pandemic and, of course, during the pandemic because we're going to be right at something. I'm telling you again, the Youth Employment Strategy for this legislation is primarily based on the formation of youth, geared to professions, the skills that really demand the productive tissue. For what? In order to consolidate youth in their employment, in order to transform temporary contracts into indefinite, and ultimately in order to somehow improve the employability of those under 30 years of age. This is, of course, mixed with policies for employment guidance and employment promotion which allow for a gradual consolidation in the labour market, in businesses, on Thursdays. And we also seek, of course, to facilitate youth employment in an agile way, in a simple way, in a close way and with economic support for Thursdays. On this line is one of the projects that we put forward on the Government's candidacy for the Next Generation, which are the poles of rural entrepreneurship. And the rural entrepreneurship poles will be in exactly the 12 rural districts that exist in the autonomous community to promote proximity projects in all communities of the community and to allow young Greeks to also give real opportunities for the future by setting up the population in rural areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u167	Well, this project is a project that enters the general strategy of the council, but it's specifically aimed at -- as I say -- the settlement of youth entrepreneurship population in our rural population nuclei. It simply ends by saying that this whole training strategy and this whole youth employment support strategy is fully aligned with the new Spanish active employment support strategy 2021-2024, which we have just approved at the sectoral conference that took place in April.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u168	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u169	Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u170	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next of the interpelerations. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Question by Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the German Government in relation to employment and the improvement of employability To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u171	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Counsellor, we can't let this attendance, this intervention, show the solidarity of the Socialist Parliamentary Group with the workers who are manifesting themselves throughout the Coruña, in San Caetano, in Ferrol and Santiago. The cleaning workers of buildings and places for the defense of a decent agreement, essential workers who have given everything in the pandemic and who are suffering from an attack by the employer in the fair claims of a worthy agreement. I hope, Counselor, that you will intercede in this conflict. [[Applause]] Besides, I'd like to tell you the motto you're using on the chart that comes out: "There's no Disclin for this mutiny." All our support. Well, to get started...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u172	Yes, you can remove the mask, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u173	Thank you very much. To begin this intervention I can also mention a few words from the president regarding the unemployment data to my socialist spokesman, Gonzalo Caballero, because it is incredible the data he was processing today and he was moving in this intervention. Because what Mr. Feijóo didn't say is that in 6 out of 10 Greek municipalities there are more pensioners and unemployed than workers today. And he didn't say that in 8 of the 10 municipalities the average pension doesn't reach the minimum interprofessional wage. And he didn't say that the annual loss of membership is nearly 19,000 people, that's not what he said. As I didn't say today, we have 27,000 workers and workers in ERTE without these unemployment data being included. Well, today we're dealing with the operation or malfunction of the Public Employment Service of Galicia. As you know, in the agreement on the new model of the Public Employment Service, signed in 2007, three objectives were set: the first, obviously the placement of the applicants; the second, the improvement of employability, which implies establishing with each applicant what aspects should be strengthened the insertion itinerary and how it can do to seek a job in search of employment; the third objective is employment promotion and stability, using both measures, advisor, which encourage and follow-up of the recruitment. In relation to the first objective, on the placement of job seekers, in the first quarter of this year there were in Galicia a total of 30,594 demands that were low, of which only 6,845 were by placement. But these placements, of these 6,000 placements, were only 163 positions managed by the Public Service of Galician Employment. The intermediation capacity of the Public Employment Service in Galicia, led by you, Counsellor, is only 2.4%; of course, this service does not meet the goal of placement of job seekers. In the first quarter of this year Galicia represents 4.9 of all casualties due to the placement of applicants that occur in the State, and only 1.8 of the placements managed with previous offer. But it seems that the degree of job offer placement is not something to worry about counseling, it's not your goal. Counsellors are just concerned to say -- like today -- that unemployment is lower than in the rest of the state, but it's just another lie. Because you will also remember, Counselor, that in 2011 the Socialist Party of Galicia reported that the Employment Council -- at that time you were not, obviously, Counsellor, was Beatriz Mato -- changing key 698, of orientation, by 421, of training, with which young people under 30 years of age were not computed at that time as unemployed. Do we have any assurances today that this will not happen again? Galicia, in the first quarter, had an average of 14,043 casualties for non-renewal; to give us an idea, that low volume is 45.9 percent of the total active demand drop. If we take this data, variation in active demands from non-busy claimants, in the month of January there is a decrease of 2.3 in Galicia compared to December, while in the state as a whole it rises to the same extent of 2.3. In February they repeat the same thing, Galicia goes down by 0.7, while the state rises by 1.2. Galicia is the only community in which unemployment comes down, they say continually general directors of your department, the president and even you now when you answered the BNG spokesman. If you're left with the non-renewal casualties that occur in January, which do not go to the employment office -- it's the only community, along with Euskadi, where it doesn't renew automatically at that time -- you have to add those 18,208 demands that were low for not renewal to the 201,000 demands that were at the end of the month. In this way, Galicia becomes the community in which, after Basquedi, the more the unoccupied demands increase. It is particularly serious that they resume the demand renewal obligation when the number of new notified cases of Covid-19 in Galicia is greater. See, in the first quarter of the last five years in Galicia there was a total of 159,052 low demand, of which 84,000 were per placement, 53.3%. Only 2,095 casualties, 2.5, were managed by the Galician Public Employment Service. If we look at public employment services in other communities, without any -- it's true -- we can talk about the expected target, over the last five years, between 2017 and 2021, it ranges from 22.9 in Extreme, 10.4 in Andalusia, 9% in Aragon and 8.7 in Canary Islands. The average state employment managed by public employment services in this period is 6.9, almost three times more than in Galicia. Counsellor, we are all aware that your politics is a policy that affects people's lives in Galicia and nothing more because of the needs that you leave alone to cover in such an important situation. The unemployed and the Greek companies need a public employment service that is intermediate between one and the other with a minimum weight, and that's not an average in the first quarter of the last 5 years of the 2.5. The second goal is to improve employability -- as you well know -- with demands articulating through the insertion routes we were talking about. It is an essential requirement to make the insertion itineraries, to have previously, advisor, an analysis of the needs of the local labour market of the applicant. An analysis to be done in the short or medium term. If we don't know what job needs are for localities, how are we going to make an insertion route for a job seeker? The essential requirement to make these employment search plans to which technicians are required is to know the applicant's competence, his level of professionalism in the occupation or occupations in which he seeks employment. None of these two essential requirements are known, Counselor. Or what's much worse, it doesn't seem that since the board's been looking for procedures to meet them right now. It is also not a concern of this department, as it is not a concern of this Government of Galicia to spend the funds allocated to employment policies, because with policies to improve employability during the Government of Feijóo they left without spending EUR 762 million of the funds for training in the employment of unemployed and busy people. If we note that only 46% of the unemployed have FP or university vocational training, it's hard to understand this neglect in management. Besides, he hasn't promoted training in key competences. And the third goal is to promote employment and stability. There's obviously no need to talk about them. The volume of work that was lost under the Government of Feijóo, and that's not what it says, was 15.5% of the existing one. Between 2008 and 2019 we lost 6.7 million hours of work, the equivalent, I said on another occasion, to 178,844 jobs. From an average annual to 2020, two out of three people stopped in Greece receive no benefits. And those credits for this matter leave unspent as a whole 1,487 million. Counsellor, between the 1,487 million employment and active policies and the 55 that have been left unspent in labour relations, labour health and the social economy, we have 1,540 million euros not spent. Counsellor, there are 1,540 reasons why standing people feel insulted by Mr. Feijóo's different governments, one per million euros that have left without spending on employment policies their different governments. That is why we call upon you to commit yourself in this Parliament to put in place a joint plan for the acquisition of training experience and key competences for 10,000 non-perceptive unemployed people. Nothing else in my first intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u175	Thank you, President. The first one, I'm not going to enter into the statement you just made, Mrs. Díaz, regarding the misrepresentation of the data I'm giving here. And I'm not going in because I'm giving data not only from the Employment Service, but from the Social Security, so I don't think I have to come here to defend neither the General Administration of the State, nor the Administration of the Autonomous Community, nor the officials who work and give this data, because they defend themselves. But I think it's very serious that you can question it, I'm not talking about my advice anymore, but about the social security data. So, the data given today by the president and the data given by my directors, of course in committee, are the actual data contained in the records. Galicia is the state's first autonomous community in April on unemployment, both at the inter-annual and inter-monthly levels. And that's how it is. That's how the difference is also quite broad with the average data of the state. That is, when in Galicia we dropped by 5.50% the number of unemployed compared to March, Spain decreases by 0.99%. When in Galicia we decreased by 10.88% compared to April 2020, that is, at the peak of the pandemic, Spain increases that figure, unemployment increases by 2.07%. Galicia drops a 10.88, Spain rises a 2.07. Then he talks there with confusion, because it may give rise to the confusion of January's data and the lack of automatic renewal that has ceased to take place. The lack of automatic renewal is that automatic renewal is not an ordinary procedure, it is a procedure that certain autonomous communities, including the Basque Country, have launched during the time of Covid, but unemployment, the demand for employment, can be done through the mobile. So I guess who really is and is interested in being a job seeker, is that you don't have to move to the job office, you can do it from a mobile app. In any case, that data you say is January data, but the download we're talking about right now is April download, April data, because we're already in May. So we're comparing the downhill from April to April and the downhill from April to March this year. You can't influence anything else if you're down in your case you're talking about in January. And then, again, if you don't want to believe the unemployment data, at least create the social security data. And that those 20,000 unemployed less than Galicia has since a year ago corresponded to 27,000 more memberships to Social Security, which I don't know about, and I'd like to know, from where, from, what source you get, the data you just gave that there's an annual loss of 19,000 memberships. Because these aren't social security data. So... it's 19,000 people you're talking about, I don't know where this data comes from. With regard to recruitment and the quality of employment, indefinite recruitment, he spoke before the indefinite recruitment of less than 30 years, but it is that indefinite recruitment generally grows over a year ago. There's an increase of 188.26%. Right now there are 4,874 indefinite contracts more than in the peak of the pandemic. It also increases full-time recruitment by 142.84%. Then he also talks about job loss data since 2008, he talks about 178,000 jobs lost, 15% job loss. I don't know where this data comes from either. The unemployment rate has dropped by about 40,000 since we arrived in the Government in April 2009. In April 2009 unemployment was 210,662, in April 2021, 170,778. In the last year of the bipartite unemployment was growing, it was growing at 31.9%. Today, despite the pandemic, we're lowering unemployment by 10%. With regard to our first legislation, when we took the Government in April 2009, there are almost 40,000 unemployed less, 18.93% less. As for the second legislation, there's a fall of 38.74%, 108.009 unemployed less. As for the third legislation, 32,776 unemployed less, that is, 16.1% less. We created jobs, we won those 27,000 memberships. And if we go back to the last year of the bipartisan, they're losing, data from Social Security again, 50,800 memberships. I mean, in the face of such a crisis as we are and is happening, which affects everyone the same, Galicia is getting to reduce the number of unemployed for the fourth consecutive month, we have been reducing unemployment since the beginning of 2021, while the state as a whole continues to increase unemployment. That is to say, despite the fact that the impact is the same because the pandemic is the same, although it is true that the measures of support, resistance and everything that is being done so far are getting Galicia to resist better and Galicia is recovering from employment. Then the data from ERTE... is that the data from ERTE in Galicia are good and are above all also from the national average in recovery of workers who were suspended back to business. In Galicia in April they registered 10,450 ERTE that affected 26,998 workers. As of March, 22.33 percent of the people who were in ERTE, 7,700 people less in ERTE came down. At the peak of the pandemic we were with 165,000 people in ERTE. Over the years, 138,040 workers in the ERTE have been released, i.e. we recovered 83,64%; the state average is at 81,15%. Implementation of the finalist employment funds. Together -- I don't know where that data is coming from either --, Junta has been able to carry out its commitments in the field of labour throughout all the years of our legislation since we arrived in 2009. I'd like to have all those unexecuted funds that you're talking about, because the finalist funds don't get lost, they fall short year after year, and I can assure you that I make a lot of accounts so I can get all the employment programs forward. I wish I had all that money to run more active employment policies, but the reality is that I don't have them because they're committed to budgeting. Do you think, if not, the Ministry of Employment, the current Ministry of Labour, would continue to transfer the funds if they were not executed? In 2020 the German Government committed about 84% of the current budget to active employment policies. Galicia continues to position ourselves as the first autonomous community by number of aid published, 82 active policy aids, opposite Castela and León, 60, and Madrid, 54, which are the following two. The third autonomous community in active employment policies behind Estremadura and Euskadi, as a whole budgeted in 2020. With which I think that this data completely dismantles what you are saying about the lack, and constantly repeats the Socialist Party, the lack of execution of the employment funds. And that's ridiculous because Galicia is from the first autonomous communities running the employment funds. So, look where they get that data because it's not the real data. And I repeat to you that I wish I had all those funds, because I could run a lot more help, I could run a lot more employment policy, but I can't because I don't have any more money because the money is engaged. The employment strategy that the board has, and which is linked to what we were talking about in youth employment, goes on in the short term as we are seeing measures that inject liquidity into companies, but in the medium term it goes precisely through the modernization of the mediation processes and the placement processes, analyzing the needs of the business fabric and the working population, to achieve what you are proposing: a more agile, dynamic administration that really contacts real-time with entrepreneurs, autonomy to cross demands and job offers. And this strategy goes precisely through, as we said earlier, a readaptation of training for employment and the creation of innovative tools and resources in the autonomous community to achieve that cross between supply and demand. The adaptation of training, on the one hand, to digital training, not only in digital skills, but through digital classes that can increase and facilitate further training and also reach the rural sector, and by adjusting vocational training for employment, as I say, to the needs and demands of the labour market. Specific training in strategic sectors. We are going to draw specific packages this same year of training in strategic sectors for intensive training and focused on technologies that demand these sectors. And also in general training in skills that are the most demanding in the market, through this study of emerging technologies, which is already under development, and through the Galaga of Capabilities Agenda, which will be a great pact among all social agents to somehow design the abilities of people who are going to work in Galicia in the coming years. This schedule will be presented before the summer by the advisor to social agents.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u177	And we continue -- yes -- creating innovative tools and resources like, for example, the rural entrepreneurship poles of what I was talking about, all of them in the framework of the Spanish employment strategy. Nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u178	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the word on Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta's replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u179	Thank you, President. Counselor, I did not object to your intention to meddle in this conflict that is affecting nearly 10,000 people in the Coruña for this agreement that is being negotiated. And I'd like you to answer because they're really workers who, as you know, have precarious contracts, many of them half a day or so, charging 400 euros in this case, and seconding a strike like this for them is a huge effort, when in this case the employer has just specified a series on the platform to lose a number of rights acquired over the years. I hope that it will meddle in the solution of a conflict so that the workers, as I say women, will achieve a dignified agreement. Well, Counsellor, I continue to say, the EUR 1,540 million not spent on employment by Galicia is a measure of the disaster of Mr Feijóo's employment policies. The great success of the decline in unemployment recorded in the first quarter in relation to the state average is due solely to casualties due to non-renewal; and of the 17 communities only Galicia and Euskadi, which are the ones that do not allow, did not allow that self-renewal, this happened; of the casualties due to non-renewal the pandemic is logically marked in an absolutely decisive way, because in 2021, the casualties due to non-renewal were 14,043; but, if we went down to 2020, 6,849; in 2019, 9,166; and in 2018, 8,599. Obviously, both in absolute numbers and the weight of the pandemic over the claimants in the first trimester of this year preferred to be low at that time because they were not at risk and also because, as I said, the Public Employment Service in Galicia is not working or is being a core of labor intermediation. And of course this is no fault in any case of the Galician Public Employment Service workers. This is a lack of measures because they have no means, they do not have adequate means or training the employment technicians of the Public Employment Service of Galicia to achieve these intermediations. So, let's not confuse ourselves because we're talking about the policy followed by the Employment Council, never the spectacular work, of course, that do what the employees of the Public Employment Service in Galicia can do, which we greet from here. Well, Counsellor, be aware that the decrease in unemployment recorded has much more to do with the pandemic and the lack of expectations of the labour market on Thursdays and no longer so young in Galicia, and it is absolutely necessary to establish procedures to increase the level of supply management. These procedures are not computer algorithms, but have much more to do with the classification procedures of these applicants, with the management procedure of offers. Regarding the improvement of employability, the second objective is a disaster if you look at the side that you look at, because it's true, and there are the data, the lack of execution of the employment policies of the Feijó period and they're published. A second aspect is the prospect of the labour market in the area where people are looking for employment, because it's a prospect that doesn't exist, counselor; therefore, people who develop itineraries, officials, have no reference to do it. A third aspect to be taken into account is the level of professional competence check, which is not a relationship of occupation options for which a certain titration is needed, which without it cannot be entered by a claimant. A fourth aspect is the individual and personalized itineraries, which according to article 29 are not being developed either. At present, you are not, Counsellor, planning the actions planned in the itinerary. Since the arrival of Feijóo to the Government, these planning itineraries have never been taken into account, nor have twelve years later developed a procedure to do so. After doing this, go again and again to the job-seekers at the office, after making a technical person of employment or mentor look for what he can offer this applicant so that he has more possibilities for placement, after signing both an employee improvement agreement with specific measures, the board doesn't take any account of that in the planning of employment policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u181	Well, just a moment, Mr. President. Besides, we're currently seeing how big companies are doing ERE, how it can be H in Ourense, with 18 jobs at risk, when it's a store that knows it has a high profit volume, the eighth at the state level; Adolfo Domínguez in Ourense; and what my fellow economic voicer once commented on the bank.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u182	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u183	And we also hope, Counselor, that it will broker these EREs for the good of our provinces and our community. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs. Costa. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u185	Thank you, President. On the collective agreement of the Cleanup Sector of the Coruña, I haven't answered because I have a question this afternoon about this theme of the Galician Nationalist Block, so I'll talk about it this afternoon. In relation to data, you return to the autorenewal theme for autorenewal. I'm giving you data, in addition to affiliations, and I'm going to give you data from self-government, from seniors in the self-government register. So it's impossible that the effect of auto-renewal casualties can influence memberships of Social Security; and those who are high in Social Security exceed the drop in unemployment, which means that there is no such impact of what you're talking about for automatic renewal. There are 20,000 less unemployed people and 27,000 more affiliates. That is, there are still more affiliated people than were registered in unemployment, data from April 2020 to April 21. Yes, that's right, it's social security data, I don't come here selling any data, it's data coming out of records. So that possible theory has fallen by its own weight since the social security affiliations came up. Unemployment drops in April, as I say, on a monthly basis, it goes down in April at an annual level; the autonomous community with the highest drop in unemployment in both parameters. We're talking about Galicia dropping unemployment at an annual level when the state is growing at an annual level. We have unemployment levels below 12 years ago. Galicia increases recruitment, an annual increase of 188% of indefinite recruitment. Autonomous data: we now have 2% more autonomous than before the pandemic; we are already in figures, we were on the standstill in March 20 with 207.163 autonomy and now we have 207.552 autonomy. I also say that nothing has to do with that automatic download of what you're talking about, which is exclusively about the demand for employment in the offices. When I was talking about the staff, I wasn't talking about work in the employment offices, I was referring to the data coming out of the records that officials handle, not the work they do in the work orientation. And come back to the low-implementation of employment funds. In the short term they know that we're working on direct support to sectors, on agile aid, on aid to entrepreneurs and businesses in Galicia. We got help from the month of November direct worth 182 million euros. It's paid 100% of the first plan and the second plan by 84%; by 96 million, because we've increased it by 21 million a week and peak, we've already paid another 80 million. The third rescue plan is already negotiated with the 234 million coming from the state, with which we're talking -- these aids will be paid with the same agility as the previous ones -- that we're going to pay 150,000 autonomous 416 million in seven months, and it seems like we're not running the funds, there's no other autonomous community in the whole state that's been running this amount of direct and less direct aid in so little time. In the medium term, we work on what you're highlighting, we work on precisely, in some way, joining training with work orientation, trying to analyze market demands, to give those instruments to our mentors, to our employment offices. Hence the need, we believe, for this European project with rural entrepreneurship poles where there is a specific entrepreneurship office that knows the business fabric of the area and which can guide training and entrepreneurship in that area. And from there also the importance of making a big pact, that agenda of capacities within the autonomous community, so that it really is, in social dialogue, so that it is really the business fabric, also universities, and of course all the social agents of the autonomous community that move to the administration which are the sectors that even now have employment to form and orient in that direction. That's what we're working on. That schedule is going to be presented before the summer and a pact will be made in the autonomous community trying to cross, really, the demand that companies need or what we have to train and how to guide workers and workers as well. I am only finishing again because it seems serious to me that we have been claiming the low execution of funds, that we have been 12 years where the average of the execution of the employment funds is 83.5%, and that in full pandemic we have been able to compromise about 84% of the budget of the autonomous community. The evidence that this is the case is that I have no more money in my budget. If I had them, I would be able to pull out even more ambitious active policy programs; they are not involved in programs, aid calls; as I say, we are the first autonomous community in public aid calls for active employment policies. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u186	Thank you very much, Counselor. We suspended the meeting until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u187	We restart the session with questions to the Government, the seventh point on the agenda. Question by Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and D. Martín Seco García, of the G.P. of Galician Socialists, about the level of effectiveness that is having the application of QR codes to detect new Covid-19 groarse and to control the capacity of hosting sites
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u188	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Vice President first. Hosting is one of the sectors most affected by this economic and health crisis, as we all know, mainly because of the reduction in shelters and schedules, the containment of expenses by families, the fear of social contact and perimeter closures. Thus, according to the data published by the Galego Institute of Statistics in its Report on Activity Indicators, the indicator of the activity of the hospitality sector recorded a fall in December of 56 per cent over the same month of the previous year, being one of the sectors that experienced the biggest fall, reducing the business figure in parallel to 47 per cent, and with a loss of 13 per cent of the staff employed in the sector, two tenths above the entire state. In the face of this sad situation at the hostel, the Greek Government must do its best with more concrete measures, and of course with more assistance. The escalation brought with it a series of new measures to host the facility in order to achieve a secure service. Control of the number of people, interpersonal distance, cleaning, and now besides the QR code and CO2 meters. The implementation of this QR code system by the Galician Board is mandatory for the hospitality companies. Since March 12th, after giving Galician board a one-week moratorium on the entry into force of that rule, given the complaints about the malfunction of the official page from which the graphic material should be downloaded, all accommodations in Galician hostel are required to present a Galician board poster showing the capacity of the site, both on the terrace and inside, and where a QR code appears so that all clients who decide to do so can register their presence in the establishment. The mandatory thing is that bars, cafes and restaurants present the QR code; consumers can voluntarily choose whether or not to scan it. The goal is to help track down the origin of Covid-19 cases to cut the chain of infections as soon as possible and control the leak of the site. At this Galician board initiative, non-tech customer assistance was not taken into account, which many, many people don't use this type of tool. After a time of the obligation of this measure under the QR code, the Socialist Parliamentary Group demands up-to-date data from the operation of this mandatory use app for the hosting industry and, thus, to know if this measure is working to detect new grotesques in our autonomous community and to control local outlets. According to the hospitality sector, most customers do not download this app, which is not making the function for which it was created; therefore, it is being inefficient. But, Vice-President, tell us what level of effectiveness is the application of the QR code in the Galician hostel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u189	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Gallego, the truth is, to try to answer this question properly and give you the data you ask me -- that, of course, I'll give you in the replica -- before I wanted to make a precision. I've read your explanatory statement several times and I don't understand very well what the meaning of the question is and therefore the answer you're waiting for to have the right information. I don't follow her, so say it colloquially; I don't know if you think QR is asking too much, bothering hostiers or customers. I can assure you that at the many meetings I've had with the lodgers for all these months there are many complaints -- and some are very logical and we're trying to solve them -- but I can assure you that among their concerns, their concerns, the things that really bother them are not an easy procedure, that it has no cost and that, apart from the initial drawbacks that there may be for a novice measure, it has not caused them any more trouble, and apart, you know perfectly that you gave yourself a time of moratorium so that everyone could discharge it. So, I don't know if what you ask or if you don't think it's right that you ask for those things too much, that you don't have to control so much; and, therefore, this is a control measure that we shouldn't put on, that would go into contradiction with many of the things you've said about all these matters. Do you think it's best to go improvising as the germs go or evolve the pandemic and, therefore, to put action afterwards before you put them before you put them? I don't know, really, I'm telling you that this isn't a cause for complaints from the lodgers when we meet, much less. You can say -- and you said it now in your intervention -- that it doesn't have a level of acceptance -- we'll see later. The one with the QR codes -- we always try to say it -- in the hostel too and, in general, in attending all kinds of events and especially those that occur in closed places, I'm sure you came to stay. It will be a tool that people will increasingly use and that will be something normal in our lives, as are many things that we didn't count on when the pandemic started. And so it's a tool that's very good at making it available to everyone, that people know when they come into a place exactly what a shelter is. And they're not all the same -- you know it perfectly --, depending on the different health circumstances of each municipality they're going to vary, inside and outside, and anyone when they come in -- even though it was only for that, this is something that many thank -- and therefore it's information we give. And, therefore, I say, regardless of the usage data, those that can provide you with that facilitates the tool, I suppose you will agree that this kind of measures that help control and provide information and therefore prevent unwanted situations are good and it's good to put them on. And you'll see how they'll generalize in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u191	Thank you, Vice President. Replica. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u192	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, I must explain fatally, because I didn't understand myself the other day. I don't know. I have to explain myself very badly. Let's see, we're not against the QR code, but citizenship isn't downloading the QR code, and that's what the whole hostel sector says, all of it! Of course, but as you only hear a part... you listen to the whole area of the hostel and so you'll find out what's going on. Because I do know what's going on, that the other day he said I didn't know anything, but yes, yes, I do; maybe what you don't know is you. [[Applause]] Talk to the hostel and tell you what's going on with the QR code. What happens to the QR code is that it's not working because if a lot of data is requested, it would have to be a simpler tool, that's what the whole hostage would say. And a sample of that is that now at dinners in restaurants they ask for extra data, and then what is the QR code for? If you already have the QR code, which would be a good tool, why do you ask for more data? And by the way, why are they asking for data dinners and meals? Well, the other day the Director General of Tourism told us it was because he wasn't socializing at meals. Well, I don't know, but I think all of us here also socialize in meals, that is... the truth, I don't know why. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Nor does the hostel know the reason why restaurants open up to 1 and the rest of the hostel's sites don't. They don't know why either. And there's a lot of real discomfort between the hospitality sector with this mess of measures, and this is due to the improvisation of the Galician Union. The Galician Union is in constant improvisation and is told by the hostiers and the hostess, not by this honourable Member who is speaking. The sector does not understand this whole scale of measures, it needs specific ordered measures and they do not overlap with each other. And, of course, we agree with the measures, yes, but they have to have an order. Don't improvise, because they're improvising all the time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u193	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u194	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Close the question. First Vice-President and President's Adviser, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Gallego, I am sorry to tell you that, indeed, I confirm my suspicions, so I wanted to start with the first part of the intervention. You're upset that we do things according to the hosts and there's a QR code that provides more security and therefore asks a question to try to criticize. If you want to come back to the previous question that I'm approaching perfectly, I'm going to tell you the same thing, it's hard. And, of course, I don't have all the data, let me maybe have some more data for my position in the Government's tourism competition to make a composition of place and, of course, to talk about it. I don't know if you put meat on who represents and who isn't inside the hostel. We're trying to talk as quickly as possible about people representing the hostel. You guys, if you think you and some others don't, because that's probably why they have these wrong ideas that would prevent you -- I'm sure -- trying to reach agreements in a very complicated situation. And that's why in the institutions that you rule -- except for some honorable exception, such as the Crown Deputation and really a few more -- they're still discussing today, months and months later, like the direct aids and they haven't released a single euro -- and look at the months ahead -- we're taking 180 million euros, maybe it's because we're trying to talk to the people who represent and we're sensitive to the situations they have; and that's why we help them with money, direct aids -- as I said -- and also with measures like this in the QR code. It's just that sometimes we forget -- you forget it -- usually the situation we saw and the situation we're in right now. And that's why he asks for something and his opponent depends on who they meet with, but this isn't going to tell everyone what he likes to hear, it's going to be objective and he's going to try to do things right. And you're going to think that when you installed -- because it's the reason for the question -- the QR code says nobody downloads it. Look, there are more than 150,000 downloads from the PassCovid app, which is to download the QR code later. I suppose those 150,000 users will look despicable or think they're all from the PP and so you have to criticize them in a question about the QR code. But it's 150,000 people conscious and you'll see how, when you generalize this type of technological tools for many utilities that have to do with health assurances, it'll be more and more. But if this is normal, if the logic and the brave is what we did -- if you allow me to colloquially -- this little spike in Flanders so that little by little people get used to that kind of tool and give guarantees to them and to the hosts. Because of this, Mrs. Gallego, I don't know why they bother them so much, I don't know why they have to criticize her, because some hostess, I suppose, I don't know; of course, those who meet with me and with those I'm talking to -- and I think I'm trying to talk to everyone -- don't criticize this at all. They criticize you very much for not giving the help, they criticize us not to be faster yet, but we can't be in the opening, but they don't criticize this kind of tool. It's a tool -- and I'm finished now, Mr. President -- that gives maximum security in the establishments, allows the follow-up of the grobes, allows a control of the measures, minimizes the contagions -- or that's what we want --...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u197	...transferred to both hosters and users...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u199	...a sense of security. Why do you bother them so much?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u200	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u201	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u202	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you. We are now debating two questions accumulatingly. In particular, a question by Mr. Jose Luis Bará, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego; and Mr. Pablo Arangéna, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Question from Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the opening of the corresponding file to include in the BIC Torres de Meirás all the furniture that, by their link to the historical site, must form a unit and cannot be moved without permission Question by Mr Pablo Arangüena Fernández of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia to prevent the removal of furniture from the palace of Meirás by the Franco family He begins by asking the question Mr Bará of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u203	Thank you, President. Counsellor, the provincial hearing car on April 20th is a clear example of justice on the contrary, from the world to the contrary. And it reveals a fundamental problem, is that we're in a transition that was a fraud because it legalized and bleached franchise. This car -- yes, yes, as I say --... allows the Franco to repeat the policy with the removal of the furniture from the palace of Meirades, up to 700 objects, some of incalculable value. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And before this judicial decision there is a need for a quick response and therefore the BNG has presented an initiative in Parliament, which has been debated and unanimously adopted, with an agreement also negotiated with the People's Party, to, on the one hand, give a reply on the judicial level with immediate judicial actions which have already taken place in a judicial resolution which in principle paralyzes that process temporarily. But here we can't just play the letter of justice, which we already know is lame. It is fundamental and absolutely key and determining protection through the figure of BIC -- a historic site -- of all furniture that is an inseparable part of this set, so that it can be provisionally applied to these assets the protection regime provided for in respect of goods of cultural interest. This decision would allow the Francs to freeze in dry and stop their feet. And it's been a week since that judicial decision, Counsellor, and this agreement has not yet been put into effect. What are you doing? You want to pass the ball to the central government, and this is not a frontal match, you're the Greek Government and you have to exercise as such, Counselor, without excuses and without evasiveness. The whole world is telling you this: I burst in saying the Town Hall of Sada, I burst in saying the Galeg Initiative for Memory, saying the same General Secretariat for Historical Memory of the State and also the State Counsel, which is the competence of the Board, that the Board has the competences in the field of cultural heritage, that there is a Cultural Heritage Act that obliges Junta to do this, to protect these assets; that there is also a BIC that protects the whole set, and therefore the logical thing is that it is the same Administration to protect the assets that are part of this set, that I remind you that it is a historic site and that in the declaration of that historic site there is already all the values that are part of it. So it's the one who has to do it. And besides, you come into a contradiction when you're telling the central government that you can't do works in these buildings without the permission of the Union. And this is the clear proof that it is the competence of the Union, because, even if it is State-owned, it is not part of a State Administration or the National Heritage. So, Counselor, a very clear question: What are you waiting for?, when you think about stepping in the BIC enlargement file to really shield the protection of these immovable property?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u204	Thank you, Mr Bará. Thanks, time's up. The question is now put by Mr Aranguena, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u205	Counsellor, our question is part of the radical mistrust based on the fact that the ideas and actions of the PSdEG-PSOE on the subject of Meirás, as in the democratic memory in general, are opposed to those of the PP; and, if it were by Mr. Feijóo, the Peace of Meirás would remain in the hands of the Francos, as I was recognized this very morning by a reputable historian. Because, to begin with, do you know what Mr Feijó was saying when the Government of Tourin declared BIC the Peace of Meirás? He said Meirás wasn't a palace, it was a tower. This was the wonderful contribution of that genius called Feijóo to the statement as the BIC of the Peace of Meirás, to oppose it because it said that Meirás wasn't a palace. And so the headline of the newspaper El País on October 4, 2007 said: "He argued that the Union cannot force the Franco family to open Meirás because it is not a palace." That sums up his attitude on this subject. What Mr. Feijóo did in 2011 when he arrived at the Government was to come to an agreement with the Franco Foundation to open the palace for 4 days a month and allow the Franco Foundation to make apologizing of the dictatorship during those visits for years. And Mr. Feijóo still calls general the dictator, it's not gonna happen if he gets upset at the Vox section of Galicia's PP here. And in spite of Mr Feijóo and the PP, the judicial process for the recovery of the peace of Meirás is being clearly and resoundingly a success of a progressive government firmly committed to the democratic memory, a success for which none of us here would have waged their money a little while ago. And the state is still fighting for the entire recovery of the palace. As an example, holder of The Voice of Galicia today: "The State identifies 120 assets to prevent the Francos from emptying Meirás." The State, not the Galician Union. And while the state presents a demand for enormous complexity and recovers the palace, it goes through what to go through, it promotes incidents to prevent the Francos from cleaning Meirás, what are you doing? Well, to say that the statement as BIC of furniture has to be made by the state. Look, we haven't noticed anything in asking the state again, as we have already done in this Parliament, to use and exhaust all the legal possibilities to claim furniture or furniture, as we have already done -- I insist -- on repeated occasions. But the simplest and most reasonable one, adjusted to legitimacy and legality, is that it is the Union of Galicia that includes the furniture in the BIC statement of the palace, that is to say, that it extends that statement about the immovable to the furniture, which it can do in a matter of days. So what are you going to do, apart from propaganda?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u206	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, he wants the chance that we are debating today on the centenary day of the death of Ms. Emilia Pardo Bazán, speaking precisely about some very related issues to his well-known figure, I think at the national and international level. And I wanted to start with two news, a good news and a bad one. Good news and bad news. The good news is that the Cornide House file for its statement as BIC is already completed, is already the resolution made and will be sent soon to be published in the Official Journal of Galicia. And the bad news, ladies and gentlemen, is that, if we do not act jointly the state and the autonomous community, there may be a risk, there may be a risk of not being able to retain a certain number of goods within the Meirás Tower fence. He said it's the BIC statement resolution already made, it's going to be published in a few days, it's already sent to the Official Journal in the category of monument, and it follows this statement, it has to first deal with the building, with the physical building and then with its interior, with a precautionary measure to protect the interior elements inside this building. And I want, to explain the bad news, that you are perhaps even defending, to make a minimal contextualization. If something has shown this whole process, it is that we are faced with a question of a great legal complexity where the union and collaboration of administrations are positive, where when it acts with criteria and rigorously if there are successes, collective successes, and there are examples. We have recently agreed unanimously in this Parliament that the administrations, the state and the autonomy should work together in these matters. The Galician Union has been doing this since the first minute, since the zero minute with great loyalty. We have always been coadjuvants and always accompanied the state and accompanied the state's counsel. The last time, when we present a repositioning remedy on the withdrawal of the property of the Towers of Meirás, which fortunately yesterday we know that the judge also impedes the possibility that the Franco Family may take out of the Towers of Meirás certain goods. How did we get here? Well, first of all in 2008 BIC was declared, Mr. Bará will know him perfectly well. The continent, the continent of the Meirades Towers, is declared, not the content. Secondly, there is a price that is fortunately won and that price recognizes the public ownership of buildings and farms. He didn't claim in that price the furniture that was inside the building. Afterwards, the judge said a car with precautionary measures that was taken by the Franco Family and we went back to the exit box and yesterday we went back to paralyzing the exit of the furniture. We all understand that certain goods that are inside, which are part of -- let's say so -- of the story and history of the Meirás Tower complex, must remain inside the enclosure. And we all have the same goal. The same objective is that those assets owned by the State, linked to the figure of Ms. Emilia Pardo Bazán who form a unit within the enclosure, which are part of their history, are kept within the fence of the towers. And there are two prospects for this: a legal perspective, which we have practically all the same, the General Administration of the State, the Union, the Deputy of the Crown and the Town Hall of Sada, we have made sure that the assets are not withdrawn. We all know him very well. And there's a sectoral caution from the heritage perspective that is proposed to expand the BIC statement that was made in 2008, which was incomplete, as we've just seen. And here comes a complex legal issue. The state in principle is distancing itself and says it's the Union that makes the administrative process. The Board legally through its legal reports believes it must be the State. Why? First because they are the owners, they have the keys, the keys to Meirás has the state. They manage that fence. They act unilaterally. And most importantly, the Spanish Historical Heritage Act in Articles 6 and 9 says who is competent to initiate a BIC file of a good registered for public use is the State itself. And this was precisely the central argument for the compound to move from the dictator's family to the state. And we all defend it this way, we all defend that this was a good of public use, with which to deny it now would be absolutely contradictory. In any case, a legal debate is open, the lawyer of the State-Juridic Assory. And I want to be very clear, very clear, the Galician board is absolutely at ease and has no drawback to expand the BIC statement. But it has to be enabled, and this is where discrepancy arises. And we put forward a solution to solve a legal issue, which is an agreement that we refer to the State in this case and which is very simple: it is simply that the State enables us to expand the BIC. If we didn't have this agreement according to legal information, the BIC protection action would practically enter a call without exit, it would be practically null and void, according to our legal information. I've been trying to talk to the Secretary of State of Democratic Memory for days. I haven't been able yet. Because I want to ask what's the problem with legal certainty and consistency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u208	Thank you, thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u209	...because if we don't, any day we can get up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u210	Thank you, thank you... You have another shift later, thank you. No, he's got another shift. It's over, it's over. Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u211	Yes, Counselor. You announced today the initiation of the BIC declaration of the Cornide House. Yes, when the Francos already hauled everything in and did a real pillage, Counselor. They're late now. And, of course, the problem you know what it is? The problem is, you don't have a history memory policy, they go behind, they go reluctantly, they're dragged. And what you did in any case was demolish, annihilate all the policies of historical memory that were made in that government that was the only one in Galicia that made public policies of democratic historical memory. And that's how we are, so we have to defend urgently, we must do it to the Galician Union, and avoid that real sledge, 700 assets pillage. But look what we're talking about: heroic shields, hilarious shields, cruises, christening piers. By the way, look, Mr. Counsellor, the baptismal bread--can you see, Counselor? -...from Moraime to become a waitress. This is a real shame and can't be allowed by the Galician Union, which has the competences of BIC and historical heritage. We're talking about Roman anphoras, Counselor. We're talking about all the furniture and all the artistic goods in the chapel and, by the way, all the Pardobasan legacy, which you have now become the most pardobasan in the world and will also allow the plundering of all those goods. This looting cannot be allowed and cannot be allowed, and you are not the one who has to make that BIC statement. You have the competences in historical heritage, but in addition to the state's lawyer, he has made an extensive and conclusive report that tells you to go wrong. For you to want an agreement if you're telling the state lawyer that it is your responsibility, that you must do it. And that's not the first time, neither the second nor the third time that makes a BIC statement by a community of goods that are owned by the state, is there the Alhambra of Granada. We could put on a lot more. Because ownership is not the determining issue, it is that you are a member of a State service that is of the National Heritage, a question that is not given in this case. And you did it with the library, for example, so do it now and don't make any more excuses, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u212	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Arunguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u213	Counsellor, it is clear and Meridian that it is the Council of Galicia who has to declare as BIC the furniture, not the State. Since it was the Junta who in 2008 instituted the declaration as BIC of the palace and since it is not for the State to do so, because the good is not part of the State services or part of the State Heritage, among other things, because the judgment is not firm and, if there is no firmness, there can be no change in the registrar situation of the good. And Junta has the power to declare BIC the furniture in a matter of days, she just has to. By the way, speaking of Pardo Bazán, we have often said that it does not contain with us to whitewash franchise by diverting the palace from its main purpose, which must be to analyze and claim the democratic memory, to which you add zero euros in your budget. I have said and I repeat that our attitude and trajectory on this subject has always been opposed to that of the People's Party. I don't say so, it's white on black in the sentence when it indicates that in February 1978 the Socialist Party had already asked for the restitution of good, and its constitution and conversion into the seat of the future self-government. That's the story, those are the facts, beyond the official propaganda of Galician PP. It is also a fact that the Board can extend the BIC declaration to the furniture in question for days. It seems you're still playing dizzy, doin' what they do, don't do, or don't want to upset the part of your electoral base that Vox would vote in Galicia if he had an excuse and an opportunity to do it, or just don't want to betray his origins. In any case, you have spoken of collaboration and institutional loyalty; you will not have a stupor or trap on the part of the Government of the State to recover all the furniture of the Peace of Meirás. And by the way, if you want to talk to the Secretary of State and you have difficulties, we leave right now and we call the Secretary of State, don't make an excuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u214	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. Closing shift of these questions, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u215	The truth is, you don't know what your goal is; in any case, look, we put a technical solution on the table, we ask the State not to be intransigent. I don't care who's doing the file. The autonomic administration has no problem doing the file, the important thing is doing it right, that's really the important thing. And, I repeat, we have an agreement on the table that enables us, legally we need it. If we sign that agreement tomorrow, we'll start in the past. If we sign that agreement tomorrow, we'll start the start. Look, in this House we are politicians and we speak in political terms, and we speak with political criteria. Obviously, we must have a legal basis to avoid the perverse effects of our decisions. And there's a tremendously simple question and reflection, which is the key that made it possible for the tower of Meiras to be owned by the state, and it was shown that this good was always an integral asset of the National Heritage assigned to a public service, managed by the General Administration of the State. It's like this literally in the sentence. And, if we take the Spanish Historical Heritage Act, tell us to enter a BIC file of National Heritage Property, the competent State is Article 6B. A little more to say, gentlemen. And, look, as we speak here as politicians, this government and this parliamentary group can be absolutely certain that we have zero moral or political debt with franchise or dictator, as you call it, zero political or moral debt. Yes, we have already protected the most important BICs, the Library of Emilia Pardo Bazán when it was owned by Franco, Mr Bará, and the statues of Master Mateo. [[Applause]] And we don't have any drawbacks, none at all, but we want to do it well so that then there's no frustration or then we can prejudice the general situation, and we don't get into a total legal contradiction, it's not going to be that to save some furniture we lose the property. It won't be like we're going into the trap Mr. Aranguren just told us. Look, if we don't understand and don't act together with a common criterion, someday there'll be a picture that won't like anyone else, and who's responsible for that photo will be the one that doesn't allow there to be a legal solution that this self-government admits, because we have to do things right, and I understand and I'm sure the state won't miss this opportunity. I'm sure you won't despise this solution, because the question is why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u216	Silence! Quiet, Mr. Arunguena, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u217	...to sign this agreement. There's one very clear thing, the keys we know who's got them and who's got them, I'm from the state, normal. It should be the State itself who declares, according to its own law, its own property, who has fixed the incoeration, we don't understand why it escapes, do we? I ask you to act, to act the State or to let you act, to have others do it, and the Union wants to do it, but it wants to do it safely so as not to enter a perverse path where within just a few months we enter a despair or frustration. How would they explain this later? Because the question is, why don't you enable us, why don't you want to sign that agreement? Is there a hidden path? I understand that no, no hidden path, I'm sure not. Look, Junta knows how to do things, we've shown it a short time ago: we've won the state 200 million euros. I say either the state or let it do it or let it do it, and let it do it with guarantees, that this is not a kind of new exit from the alarm state, like the sort of a dog from the vegetable. I really, Mr. Aranguren, can tell you that you have direct thread with the Secretary of State, call him; I called him Monday, you didn't catch me. Yesterday he called me and I couldn't take it, this morning he called me again at 8 in the morning, he didn't answer me. But one question, since you've given me so much contact, I ask you to speak with your representatives of Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u218	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u219	...and tell him literally that, if we sign the agreement tomorrow, the Council of Galicia tomorrow begins with the initiation. I think we have proven solvency, I think we have leftover curriculum, we have just talked about the Cornide House, we've just talked about the protection we're proposing to the statues of Master Mateo and the library of Mrs. Emilia, so nobody can even think there's a minimum moral or political debt with the Franco dictator's family, none. You're trying to create a story that might be interesting for your self-consumption, I'm not discussing it, but it's in any case not productive for Galicia. The productive thing for Galicia is that we fulfil the parliamentary mandate, that we unite forces, that we cooperate, that we sign an agreement that gives us security, certainty and legal coherence, and, I insist, we want to do it, we want to do it with all guarantees. If we sign the agreement tomorrow, then we can have the absolute assurance that we will start working on the initiation of the file, that we all wish the same thing, we absolutely wish the same thing and we are in legal discrepancy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u221	...where we provide a solution that we can get to good port. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u222	Thank you, Counselor. Well, see if they stop communicating their phones and we all talk. Question by da Sandra Vázquez Domínguez and seven other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the presence of Greek in the digital world
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Today morning, words such as the Black Age, the failure of linguistic politics, which the Government is with the changed time, words on the left. And, of course, after they spoke to the Greeks and the Greeks on June 13 of last year, we concluded that those who follow in the black season are the left, who continue to ignore that the Greeks and the Greeks do not want the language to be used as a weapon of confrontation, as the Galego Nationalist Block intends. They won't find us there, ladies and gentlemen, because the Greeks and the Greeks use the Greek and the Spanish indistinctly in daily use, and without taxation. Of course, Counselor, our language is present and future, and in that future we want it to continue to bet on by the German Government, as it has done so far. The negationist words of the Galician Nationalist Block make manifest that they remain immersed in the past and the imposition prevents them from working for a future by the Greek language. However, it is up to you, Counsellor, with the support of the Popular Parliamentary Group, to your future bet by the sign of identity, linguistic and cultural as is our Greek language. At this point in time, there is a real global technological revolution, an unprecedented process of changes that has been accelerated by the social health context. Language technology is one of the cornerstones of this process. Languages are present in all kinds of digital resources and tools that are changing the way citizens relate and communicate. However, because of the volume of potential users, these technologies are usually available only in languages with a greater number of speakers, which leads minority languages to stay out. Our community is not an ally to all these advances and therefore it is not the English language either. Today there is a small number of products, technologies and resources designed for Greek, especially if you take into account their majority language character in our territory and their projection to belonging to the Lusophony. To reverse this situation, public administrations must play a key role, favoring the presence of Welsh in the digital world to make a qualitative and quantitative leap into the digital ecosystem. Thinking of that future, Mr. Counsellor, which lines foresee your advice to favor the greatest presence in the digital world. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u224	Mr. Culture Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u225	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that in the debate in the morning it became very clear that the most important thing in this area of management and policy is to think about the future, to prepare ourselves for the future. And the truth is, we're in a real technological revolution that obviously affects us all, the way we live, the way we relate to communicating with each other, and obviously in this technological revolution that is accelerating in recent times, the Greek language cannot be left out of the new technological uses. We therefore have an obligation to make transcendent, silent decisions with a country's vocation and, above all, to think, as I said earlier, in our future. Within this general framework, the Noi project is launched. The project We for us is an absolutely strategic project that we think will make a difference, one before and one after in the Greek language, in the presence of the Greek in the digital world, which will place Galicia in the vanguard of what is the technology of language, of what is the application of artificial intelligence to language and to the interrelationship between the person and, in this case, the machines, which will ensure that Galicia and Galicia can participate in the digital world and that, ultimately, it is a fundamental pillar for the future of language. He comes to answer this project to one of the great challenges, which is to respect the past forever but always looking also toward the future. And in this case, what we want to do is make society available, from the whole of society a series of linguistic resources and tools that help us develop technological products: speech synthesizers, speech recognition, natural language generators, dialogue systems, automatic translators, automatic fixers; very simplified, we could say that we can speak to them in English to Siri or Lexis, something that we usually do in Spanish or other languages, and this is something that the project We have that vocation. Undoubtedly, the language is the richest part, one of the richest parts of our heritage, and it is born for this purpose, in order to preserve and maintain our language and culture, but it also has another purpose, because this project has a direct effect, very important from the economic perspective, not only of a public investment that is going to take place, but, once we have the resources, the databases have them and are made available to companies, to society to develop to a certain extent applications of different types, we can encounter an investment and an economic pull of about 45 million euros. Obviously, we're going to introduce this to the Next Generation funds, we're telling you to go out and, if not, the Galician board will obviously continue to bet on it, it'll go at another rate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u226	Your time is up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u227	...but we also hope that in this case the State will be sensitive and approve this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u228	Mrs Vázquez Domínguez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u229	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, I have listened carefully to your intervention on the project We and from the Popular Parliamentary Group we want to transfer our congratulations to you and your whole team, because we are sure that, as you said, it is a strategic project, an ambitious project that will mark that before and after in the interaction of our language in the digital world. In his speech he commented that the project aims to create resources, linguistic tools that will be made available to society, productive tissue; as he said, speech synthesizers, dialogue systems or even automatic translators. To finish, and whenever possible, you said that it was intended to mobilise about 45 million euros, within that mobilization, we want to ask you, if possible, what impact it will have on employment. By thanking that innovative bet and the work that he does in linguistics for his advice, we encourage him to continue working and continuing to bet on our language, as he undoubtedly is part of our most valuable heritage. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u230	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. And for the replication turn the counsellor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u231	Thank you, Madam. We have two legs, two pillars, a leg of a purely cultural character, of language defense, of language promotion towards the future, and an economic part that has to do with the development of applications and products that can later be incorporated into the everyday life of the Greeks and the Greeks. It is a country project, as I said, and part of a significant public-private collaboration, and we don't do it alone, the Unity of Galicia is not alone in this project, but it has fantastic and magnificent partners: the University of Santiago through its Center for Research in Intelligent Technologies, the CITIUS; also the University of Santiago through the Institute of Galician Language; of course, cross-sectional organisms of Galician Union, such as Amtega; also the Centre for Humanities Ramón Piñeiro. Finally, we have the best partners possible to develop a good project. And, as I said, there's a fundamental cultural vision to guarantee the future of our language and to project us into an inexcusable technological framework that is already here, it's no longer the future, it's now the present. But, on the other hand, it also has a part that will promote business development, job creation, specialized employment, quality employment, because the idea is to create a technology, linguistic resource bank, in free format, which then any app, a company that develops applications, a public institution or a citizen who wants to develop a product in this area can access free of charge and can develop an application that can subsequently be placed on the market and can have professional output and work output. We're betting, as I say, for a high level of qualification of expertise; we calculate, the data we handle is that they can be generated around 450 jobs linked to the development of applications related to the use of language. And it generates, as I say, cultural wealth, linguistic wealth, but also economic wealth and labor wealth, and favors the creation of specialized employment. As I have already said, we are born with a clear vocation of the present but above all look to the future to improve the competitiveness of our companies, to favor, retain and promote talent in new technologies, to ensure and enable the digital protagonist of the language of the world, and, ultimately, to ensure that the Greek language is on an equal footing with other languages that are increasingly present in the digital world, which is fully settled and increasingly in our everyday life and in our productive activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u232	Thank you, Counselor. Question by da Paula Prado del Río and 7 other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the investment to be made by the Galician Union in 2021 in aid to non-profit social initiative entities for the implementation of specific programmes of special care comprehensive resources aimed at women in a particularly vulnerable situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u233	Thank you, President. "In general, pay tribute to another unusual and fungal mania in the woman. And it's his bad-looking love to read all sorts of books, to learn rare things, to study troche and moche, becoming a marisabidilla, the most hateful and antipathic in the world." This was how Pardo Bazán denounced with these words that those women who liked to acquire knowledge and learn things, be worshipped, were despised and despised, because the education of the woman of the time was otherwise understood: "Women's education cannot be called such education, but rather dome, since obedience, passivity and submission are finally proposed." So he saw Pardo Bazán the woman of his time, denounced the inequalities and was a feminist referent of his time. Today we commemorate the centenary of his death and from here we want to honor his figure and his contribution to contemporary culture and feminism. [[Applause]] Counsellor, today many women continue to encounter obstacles that prevent their full social inclusion, even more if they are victims of gender-based violence, sexual exploitation of employment, immigrants, migrants, returnees or refugees, those belonging to an ethnic minority, are prisoners or prisoners, women who have some kind of disability, who are faced with these alleged on many occasions with double discrimination. For this reason, the promotion of equality between women and men must be a basic and priority objective for those public authorities that aspire to a true social advancement, as it is for the Galician Union, which emphasizes the inclusion of the principle of equality as a cross-cutting axis in autonomous policies. And so in Galicia we have legislative instruments, as is Decree No. 2/2015 of 12 February, so we approve the consolidated text of Galicia's legal provisions on equality; or plans such as Galicia's VII Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities between Women and Men 2017-2020; and public resources geared to equality, and at this point highlight among others the aid to non-profit social initiative entities for the implementation of specific programmes of special care integral resources intended exclusively for women in a situation of special vulnerability. These aids meet the objective of responding to the needs of women in situations, as I said before, of particular vulnerability and encouraging their participation and taking into account their specific needs in collaboration with the third sector of social action, a key piece of social progress. Counsellor, we would like to ask you: How much does the investment to 2021 of the Galician Union increase for aid to non-profit social initiative entities for the implementation of specific programmes of special care comprehensive resources for women victims of gender violence with special vulnerability? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Prado del Río. You have the floor to Mrs. Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u235	Thank you very much, President. And good afternoon. Mrs Prado, you are asking for one of the various initiatives of the Employment and Equality Council to support specialized care for the most disadvantaged women. And in particular, these are a plan of aid to social initiative entities for the implementation of specific programmes for these women. He asks for the budget. It is EUR 1.4 million that enable the implementation of these programmes to promote equal opportunities for women through instruments that deepen the promotion of greater autonomy and greater independence for women. It is 1.4 million euros that are divided into two specific programmes: one, for women who are pregnant or pregnant, with children under the age of three but in a situation of special vulnerability; and one, more general, of personalized attention to all women in a situation of special vulnerability. Thanks to these aids with which we subsidize 84 social initiative entities, we can support about 2,500 women in a vulnerable situation. We are talking, among other things, about victims of gender-based violence, victims of sexual exploitation of labour in prostitution networks or trafficking, immigrants, return or refugee migrants, women of ethnic minorities, dependent on the consumption of toxic substances, Risga perceivers, prisoners or prisoners, transsexuals, women with disabilities, women without home, as I say, among many others. It is also necessary to indicate that these aids are intended. They're destined for a whole network of care, a whole network of services that, as I say, promote the best inclusion of these most disadvantaged women. The services provided are essentially psychological care services, legal advice to these women, intercultural and family mediation, as well as training for the acquisition of skills for their employability, but also personal, social and work counselling. In short, we have already, since 2009, EUR 13 million invested in aid to these entities for these types of programmes. They have allowed 682 programs to develop and improve the well-being of over 59,000 women who, as we say, are all Galician women in a situation of special vulnerability. Finally, to enhance the work of these social initiative entities, which in Galicia have been working all these years in collaboration with the Autonomic Administration and thus providing all these services of inclusion to these women who are in the weakest situation within our autonomous community. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u236	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Prado del Río has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, indeed, attention to victims of gender-based violence cannot be left alone in prevention, sensitization programs, but it is essential, as you have just explained, these aids not directly to them, but indirectly, and through social initiative entities that do magnificent work in our autonomous community. We arrived, as you said, from 2009 to almost 60,000 women and in the last year to 2,500 women, that otherwise we would not come in any way unless it was thanks to the work that these entities do. From the People's Party we believe and promote pluralism of well-being. The administration can't reach all sides, and we wouldn't ever get to meet and provide these services to these women if it wasn't for these social initiative entities, to whom I want to send our congratulations from here for the magnificent work they do, in many cases without resources, and other times in very precarious conditions, and it's almost voluntary work practically. It's the force of the people behind all those entities that makes that work go forward every day and, in this way, to reach many more women than, in any other way, I insist, it would be impossible to approach all those services and all those resources that the Galician Union makes available to them. I don't know, Counselor, if you can just give us a bit of a real deal about what the investment you are planning to make in Galicia's program is going to be for this year 2021. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u238	For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u239	Well, thank you very much, President. Grants to social-initiative entities such as those we are talking about right now are only one of the initiatives of this council that we have developed in order to tackle the scourge of gender inequality in Galicia, but above all to protect this group of women in particular situations of vulnerability. As I told you, since 2009, we have already reached more than 13 million euros in investment in social initiative entities in this specific programme. And it's budgeted support this year 2021 of 1.4 million euros to meet, we estimate, 2,500 women. But I would like to point out that this action, as I say, is not isolated, i.e., there are many other acts and programs in the board and most of them in collaboration with these entities and in favour of these women in particular situations of vulnerability. Of all these, I would like to highlight the support we give for the implementation of programmes from 0.7 of the IRPF for the realization, among others, of projects of integral care to people in situations of sexual exploitation and trafficking in human beings. And also various conventions that are signed with an important representation of the community's associative tissue to address precisely the most vulnerable women with the outcome of this situation in Covid. So, we've signed agreements with each of the entities that make up the Galician Network against trafficking, signed them back last year and we've been renewing them this week. Here are ACCEM, Aliad-Ultreia, Cáritas Santiago e Ourense, Doctors of the World, Ecos do Sur, Fondación Amarante, Association Faraxa and Ferrol Oblates. And also the agreement we have with the Juan Dreamer Foundation to develop a project to empower migrant women, which is the Malaic Project. Finally, I also highlight other projects for the Roma community with the Gypsy Secretariat Foundation. Also to advise women with disabilities, the agreement with the Accader Association. And we will soon also sign a project with the Home Project for intervention with women with addictions. As I say, therefore, all these programs, so much the help you are asking, in particular, how is this continuity of collaboration that we have with the social entities of Galicia because they pay good attention to the work we are doing in promoting equality, but also to the prevention and treatment of gender violence with a very specific collective, which is the women who are in that situation of special vulnerability within our autonomous community. I work that, on the other hand, we couldn't do in any way only from the council, but we need and thank the work they've been doing for many years all these social entities that we're talking about and some of which I've noticed here. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u240	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Ramón Fernández Alfonso and Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the economic and labour conditions of the cleaning staff of buildings and locations in the province of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u241	To put the question, Mrs. Olalla Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u242	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we brought this fern -- you sure identify it -- is the work tool of 10,000 cleaning workers in the province of Coruña. With it they have been symbolizing for days their struggle to defend the labour and wage rights of a professional sector which is essential at any time, but which is even more so since the pandemic and the health crisis began. Before I want to address them, because I know they're listening to us, to bless them and to send them all the strength in the name of the BNG. Because history, and more for working women, is not a magical king who goes around giving rights. All we have today are the result of a lot of struggle, a lot of effort, a lot of organization and a lot of social mobilization as they are giving. [[Applause]] This strike, counselor, is much more than a conflict with the collective agreement of the Coruña sector, is a response to all the voices that consider the wages of many women as a domestic complement, as much as they earn. It's an answer to all those voices that think about how they're going to strike these that clean up. There will be those who think -- perhaps you yourself, advisor -- that this strike and the collective agreement doesn't go with Joine, who are employees of the private company, from large groups like ACS, Eulen, Action or Ferrovial. But it's the women who clean up their office and mine, who clean up hospitals, universities, administration buildings, educational centers, health centers and the San Caetano building. Junta is one of the leading clients of these multinationals with millionaire contracts signed with the Public Service, but they have their workers in the precarious part-time and low-wage jobs that, in most cases, manage to overcome a few of the minimum inter-professional wages. So what we ask you today since the BNG is that the German Government, especially its Employment and Equality Council, assume an active role, as if you yourself were sitting on the negotiating table. First because they have a government responsibility with all the workers in this country. But it is also, above all, because the Administration, as a service contractor, has an obligation to set an example and, in addition to preaching, to give wheat. The cleaning sector has not lost a single euro in this economic crisis, quite the contrary. Businesses have done nothing but fatten their profits. It's time for them to be the workers, the clean ones, the ones who are now starting to win rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u243	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u244	Thank you, President. First of all, Mrs. Rodil, clarify what the conditions are for the employees and employees who do the cleaning services in the administrative buildings of the Galician Union, where, indeed, we have a direct responsibility as the indirect employer we are. And here is the collective agreement that governs these employees has nothing to do with what is being negotiated as a collective agreement in the cleaning sector in the province of Coruña. So it's worth pointing out here that the monthly pay that our employees have in this case is 10.7% higher than the salary set out in the agreement you refer to, that is, 1,438.62 euros, setting out in Convention 1,298.98. Monthly old-age supplement that staff has in our case with an average of 6 three years, we speak of 187.50 euros. This is not envisaged either in the provincial convention. As for the possibility of having days on their own, in our case 11 paid days, compared to the 0 days paid in the provincial convention. As for vacations, in the provincial convention 30 natural days; in our case, in addition to 2 additional days. And finally, working day: 39 hours a week at the Coruña Convention, compared to 37.5 hours a week for 9 months at Junta and 30 hours a week for 3 months that we set out, as I say, for our administrative buildings. As for the role of the council as a labour authority in negotiating that agreement, on the one hand, I think what if it has to be clear is that our role in negotiating the collective agreement is given in two very concrete phases within the said negotiation: the transfer from the start of the negotiation to the labour authority and then the registration and publication of that agreement. And that, of course, the collective agreement is evidence of collective autonomy and negotiation that workers' representatives and company representatives make. Having clarified this, of course, and I say it here clearly, that the Administration can establish mediation mechanisms, and we are available, as we always are. We are at your disposal, I myself as counsellor, as is the General Directorate, as is the Galician Labour Relations Council. But I also have to clarify that, as has happened on other occasions and we sit, as has happened with Alcoa, as has happened with Siemens, as has happened with Ferroatlantics and every time someone addresses himself as a worker's representative in his case to this counselor, I sit with them, but until today no intervention has been requested by either the council or, that I have knowledge, in the Galician Labour Relations Council, with which what the labour authority cannot do is interfere in the negotiation process, which, as I say, is the result... or the collective agreement is the result of autonomy of the will of the parties. For our part, collective agreement, joint and staff that cleans up our administrative buildings, much improved conditions. I willingly advise and, of course, all my team to mediate and to try to resolve this conflict. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u245	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u246	Thank you, President. Two questions: one, listening to her, it seems like they're privileged. And one of the issues we want to make clear from BNG is that there are no first and second-time workers, the responsibility of the Galician Union must be with each and every one of them. I insist I'm neither second nor first. [[Applause]] And then I take the floor, absolutely now and not in parliamentary headquarters, because it's recorded and I'm absolutely convinced that many of these workers are listening to us now. I take the word of that provision that, as soon as you get in touch with the council, with yourself or with your team, you will receive them. But also this didn't start today, Junta has an important role here and, when the strike began, we had clear and convincing both the workers, trade union organizations like the Galician Nationalist Block itself, that the Galician Union could have a position to favour the exercise of that fundamental right as is the right to protest and the right to strike workers in this sector, or, for example, to set up absolutely abusive minimum services on the part of the Galician Union Administration, in all its areas, and they opted precisely for this second option, because they set up absolutely abusive minimum services that would prevent those workers who are now here and as it appears to be privileged to to to to torpedo, I don't want to go beyond the exercise of that fundamental right as is the right to strike. We have said it many times here since the BNG: Galician Union has a responsibility, first, as a public authority, as a labor authority in guaranteeing workers' wages and labor rights; but secondly, also because with that volume of money and Galician Union it has budgeted for this 2021 and seven million euros public for cleaning subcontracts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u248	... -- I'm done -- they have a much greater responsibility. Your ability to intervene in front of you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u249	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u250	...of employers is enormous. So I take your word and you'll have news in the next...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil, your time is up. For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u252	Thank you. Well, I don't think you can understand what I've said that I consider they're privileged the cleaning workers. I object to the conditions that cleaning workers have in the board of Galicia because you are the one who says that, in fact, a large part of the cleaning contracts are administratively contracted with the board of Galicia. And I've testified to him by telling him that the conditions of the Galician Union have nothing to do with what is marked by that collective agreement. All those improvements that they're claiming, wage improvements, rest improvements, vacation day improvements are recognized in our case, and I think it's necessary to say it. I mean, we're talking about 10.7% more pay, we're talking about 11 paid days of own affairs and 2 more vacations, and a three-month day a year, summer and 2.5 hours less a week the rest of the year. So that's why I'm talking about these conditions. I don't think you can get rid of my intervention that you think you're privileged. Then mix yourself up and tell me about the strike; let's see, the strike will be about the other workers, I understand, of those who are negotiating the collective agreement. The strike is set in an order which was published on 8 April and which, of course, if the minimum services are abusive can be challenged, as is done many times, and many times those services are corrected by the High Court Chamber of Justice. So, if you consider, you or the representation of the workers that the minimum services are not adequate, you can resort. In any case, I think the question was about the administration's ability to improve these conditions. As far as our workers are concerned, they're greatly improved with the collective agreement of the Coruña. Regarding the intermediation capacity that we have: of course, there is technical assistance, mediation and an AGA at the Galego Labour Relations Council formally established. The workers' representatives of course know them and they'll have to tell the workers what possibility they have. I think they're the ones who have to inform the workers. Is it possible to mediate informally from the board? I myself, of course, and the General Directorate and the Director General of Labour Relations, all of it. It's not that I take the floor, that I do it continuously every time a worker's representation or even a company gets in touch. And it shows the examples I just told you, and it's also big companies. Then you can take the floor here how you can speak the representation of the workers and, of course, of the employer. But, again, the workers' representatives didn't tell these workers this possibility, because they didn't call me. It's the only thing I'm taking care of. So to express all the availability on the part of the Employment Council, of course, and also to state, of course, that the conditions of the cleaning staff in the administrative buildings of the Union are not those of the provincial collective convention of the Crown. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u253	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Daniel Castro García and two other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the intentions of the Government of Greece to provide the Marine Hospital, in Burela, with a vascular surgery consultation To put the question, Mr. Castro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u254	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, throughout these years of the People's Party's government, especially in the last few years, we have seen how the services offered by the Marine Hospital in Burela were waning and decreasing and decreasing unstoppable, since there are many areas that we could claim do not count on the necessary resources of the means, good personnel to be able to offer a public health of the twenty-first century, universal and nearby. But times are what are for this question and we're going to sink mostly into the area of vascular surgery. And it's just that in today's day any sailor or sailor who has some type of vascular type disease has to travel about 100 kilometers about their home to be cared for about any type of disease of this type of vascular type, whether it's simple or more serious. With this we could already say that the situation is alarming, but, of course, we have to add that this kind of disease has a great prevalence and, therefore, that it affects a very high number of people, something that shows that the non endowment of this service is even more scandalous. And now I wanted to ask a question for everyone, I'm sure everyone knows the answer, everyone and everyone we're here: what happens when the public system doesn't guarantee a right to many people? And I think we all know that the private system, the private sector is going with all that offensive to cover all the services that Sergas doesn't guarantee in this case. But, of course, only for some and some, as many as they can. What's this supposed to mean? For this public health, which they have been attacking for decades, is neither public, nor universal, nor near, nor of the 21st century, and that is the minimum that can be demanded of our German Government. That's why we came to ask him directly, and we hope that the answer will also be direct, if they're willing and willing to provide the Marine Hospital with the vascular surgery consultation. I know you're probably going to get us the multiple square meters of construction on the Marine Hospital in Burela, with zero services, of course, already ahead, and they didn't have any misgivings. But what we're interested in is whether they're willing to provide us with this consultation, a simple, basic, minimal consultation, in order to get this service going and that at least we can perform outpatient-type interventions such as the removal of varicose veins, the realization of arteriovenous fistulas for dialysis or doppler ultrasounds. Interventions above all, and this is very important, that have already taken place in past years and with very good results. I think this is a sample that we're asking for simple, basic, credible, minimal performances, or put on the adjective you want to put, with the unique and exclusively desire to improve the health of the Navy, our region. And that's why we ask you again: are you willing to equip this vascular surgery with the Navy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Castro, thank you. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u256	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Castro, the truth is, there was a time when I wasn't hearing so much demagogy on a question of health. It really costs me even to follow the script I had planned, because one thing is what you wrote and what you just said now. You're telling me that you think it's necessary at the Marine Hospital and it's a question -- I don't know what adjectives used -- a vascular surgery consultation. It would be the first comarcal hospital with vascular surgery, and why not neurosurgery, Mr. Castro? We can also put on neurosurgery. I suppose you will know that, in certain health skills, the number of patients, the availability of optional ones, experience is a fundamental factor. Look, in the province of Lugo there's a vascular surgery service with eight professionals and the ratio is about 76,000, more than 76,000 citizens per optional. How many do you think would be needed at the Marine Hospital? How many would it be enough according to your expert knowledge in vascular surgery to have a service there. It's true, amazing. Look, there are more services at the Marine Hospital than in other comarcas hospitals, probably because of their size and, of course, there is no lack of reference services in a comarcal hospital. And yes, I have to talk to you about the meters, because it seems, you move that as if in the Navy Hospital no interventions have been made in recent years. Yes, we've just finished one, 15 million euros -- I'm not talking to you about meters, I'm talking to you about millions -- the 14th day ends the deadline to submit to tenders, to the basic management and project, of a new reform to continue expanding services. But if you don't want me to talk to you about meters or millions, I can tell you about the last performance you've done on services, I can tell you about medical oncology at the Marine Hospital, I can tell you about Endoscopy Unit, Retina Unit, osteomy consultations. I can tell you about the Cervical Pathology Unit, the Retinian Onxeography Unit. I can tell you about things that are practically in all the comarcal hospitals; but if you want me to tell you about aspects of vascular surgery, I can also tell you about the Surgery Service, which is what usually covers in the comarcal hospitals, like what we're talking about, the basic aspects of vascular pathology or... you tell me about the doppler echo, as if there weren't radiologists in the Marine Hospital who had perfectly done doppler ultrasound. I do want to highlight an excellent relationship at the Marine Hospital and generally in the entire area of Lugo between the services of Vascular Surgery and all the services and Primary Care which is ultimately the result. There is a very well-crafted project of relationship between Primary and Hospital that enables all citizens of the Navy and all of Monforte's citizens and everyone in the Lugo health area to have direct access to a quality service at Lugo hospital, equipped, as I say, of 8 specialists who also have teaching, for example. If we've done what you suggest, which is, I suppose, removing two or three, I don't know, you'll tell me later how many do you think have to be in the Navy, we couldn't, for example, teach at Lugo's hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u257	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Castro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u258	Thank you again, President. Well, counsellor, from my humble position, knowledge of vascular surgery and so on, I recommend that the next time they go to the Navy in front of the hospital behind a terrible strip that puts public health tell the sailors and the sailors and all the patients who are cured with concrete and cement. Maybe it works. [[Applause]] Because, as I told you, these kinds of interventions were done long ago and with good results. And, above all, because the idea that you can move here is to have some basic minimal interventions -- I've emphasized that of basic interventions -- of vascular type, we talked about vascularity, but I told you, we could talk about pediatrics, cardiology, resonances, physiotherapy, a long et cetera. What can't be, is that these kind of basic interventions are considered a luxury, and I'm going to go to some specific questions. Do you think a public health that doesn't guarantee a proximity service is a quality health? And, in addition, specifically, and I'm going to give you a specific example: do you think that a health that doesn't guarantee that a varicose vein intervention can be performed is a quality health within the comarcal field? Obviously not, and since the BNG we've been saying it. And it also has a lot to do with it, and it's the chance that all these eevas come from the loss of the health area, which I know it bothers us very much that we say we want the health area, but we'll still be heavy, and we'll keep remembering that in the Navy and in all the neighborhoods of our country we have to recover all the areas. Because if they don't, they just let us think, we don't want to be misunderstandings, but they just let us think that this is for the benefit of private health, which, by the way, is having so many benefits, at least in the Navy area following all this. And, above all, that within their way of thinking centralizing even would do him a favor to large hospitals, like Lugo's, filtering out the most basic interventions so they don't have to attend to it all. Retrieve the area and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u260	... [] of this surgery consultation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u261	The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u262	I didn't expect less demagogy in the second than in the first. It's amazing. [[Applause]] First of all, I don't know the private health of the Navy as you seem to know, but I'll ask you later, or if you send me how many vascular surgeons there are in the marine area operating varicose veins. Then tell me. I insist again, Mr. Castro, that the service portfolio of the comarcal hospitals is done with a lot of criteria, but one fundamental is quality, so I have to tell you that operating varicose veins in Burela would probably be an error and a loss of quality for the inhabitants of the Navy, unless you tell me that there has to be four vascular surgeons to have experience and guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u263	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u264	...sorry, yes... then we'll talk about... if you want. I mean, if we wanted to have a quality service in the Navy, we would have to have a proper number of vascular surgeons, but at the same time they would have to have patients. And in the Navy, luckily or unfortunately, I don't think that unfortunately we don't get to the 70,000 inhabitants of reference, and that doesn't give to a vascular surgeon, Mr. Castro, it doesn't give to have experience, it doesn't even have cases, it doesn't even matter to the varicose veins. I don't know, I recommend you read a little more about the number of minimal cases you have to do a vascular surgeon in public or private.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u265	Silence! Silence! When you spoke, the councillor listened carefully. So please do the same now. Do the same now, really, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u266	Thank you, President. No, I didn't ask any questions. I'm telling you later, if you want, you tell me how many vasculars work in that paradise we've mounted in the Navy, operating veins in that area. Speaking seriously and speaking out with discretion, we continue to bet by the comarcas hospitals on basic services of proximity, we continue to bet on the good relationship between the health areas, including primary and the reference areas, whether district or reference hospitals, in a precisely search for the best quality possible, of excellence, of having the ability to bring professionals to a place, in this case as Galicia, where it is not easy, sometimes, that certain specialists may attend, concentrating the equipment, making professionals from other categories and other specialities complementary, ultimately, seeking to give them, indeed, better health care to these patients not give them demagogy, which is what Mr. Castro seems to want to move here today. I guess BNG will start asking now why there's no vascular in other health areas, or why we don't have radiotherapy, which even seemed to me to hear that he was talking about radiation therapy in Burela. Well, I repeat, there's little demagogy of health knowledge and, of course, little interest in the quality of care processes. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u267	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Mr. Marina Ortega Otero, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the reasons not to call to vaccinate persons insured through private mutuals in order and time that corresponds to them in Galicia To put the question, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u268	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. Speaking of vaccination, we must begin, as we always do, recognizing the difficulty of the process, its complexity, but we must rejoice that there is good news. In general, the process is going reasonably well, but there is news about this vaccination process that needs to be held, at least from our point of view. The evaluation of Janssen's ministry of vaccine for the 50-59 range from now on, and even the recognition of the utility of that vaccine that will be used in the process for collectives that are important as those of difficult capture, people without home to migrants in an irregular situation or even to more vulnerable groups, such as people with mental illness or some kind of disability, all of these are good news. It is also good news that you said yesterday, last night, Mr Pedro Sánchez over 100 round days for 60% of vaccination. It's true that you didn't like it. It's too late yesterday. By the way, I remind you that, at the same time as you were aggravating it, Mr. Feijóo said that we would go without masking in the streets within two months, it must have been that he did not seem so triumphalist and some applause and others did not. [[Applause]] In any case, today, Mr. Feijóo has just said that we are still the second autonomous community that is more vaccinated at the first dose; I think you and I resolved this amicably yesterday knowing it was a lie, but to Mr. Feijóo who gives the most, neither, the truth, to Mr. Feijóo, that relationship of impossible love-hate. But even though the process is reasonably good, and Sergas is working with the ministry reasonably well, there are some inefficiencies. There are approximately 90,000 mutualists in Galicia who have not been called to slaves, in any case, or in very isolated cases and who are not being vaccinated in the process at the time they belong to them. Now they're starting to fix those eyves. You're so worried about looking for problems against the government of the state that you forgot to look for some solutions to some inefficiencies that might occur in the system. Getting data is difficult and also managing large data is complicated. That's why we, too, have been asking you for a long time now that you need to hire more staff for vaccination, there's nothing more important than vaccination. However, we now live at a time when a government in which I am sure that any citizen who has any problem with Fairy, Fairy will locate him instantly. I don't think Fairy's gonna let the time pass. However, if you have to vaccinate him, Sergas is not so efficient. And we're what we demand is that level of efficiency, and this is a problem that's beginning to be solved right now. The technical secretary general of the council said the other day -- and it seemed to us, the truth, exemplary -- about the matter, which, as soon as he began to vaccinate by the corresponding age groups, he began asking for mutual data from the mutualists, and we asked him the same thing we asked him today: why so inefficiency? Because starting to ask for the data when you start vaccinating is supposed to be late. Why do they do this and when will they really start to equate the process of mutualists to know that they won't have that problem in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u270	Clearly, Mr. Torrado, the truth is that demagogy in this question was also quite enough, not as much as in the previous one, but also quite enough. A couple of data: I didn't misjudge President Sánchez's statement, which is how he likes you to say, yesterday he seemed adventurous and risky, point 1. Point 2... Can you tell me something?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u271	And that he's president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u272	I just said President Sánchez, do you mind?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u273	Mr. Orange, be quiet. Silence! Stop bothering when they're talking, really. That they stop bothering when they're talking, please. You have the word, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u274	I'm saying President Sánchez made a statement today that I thought was risky, and I said here, that I don't think I have anything wrong with that. And thanks for the words of encouragement to the vaccination process, thank you, as always. I think yesterday we had a friendly discussion and we didn't conclude that Galicia was not the second largest community of 80 and the second largest community of 60, we came to the very conclusion that it was. You said it was the one that was best because I was so much older than 60, but that's what we finally agreed on, not the other one. Galicia -- and I'm not the one who pulls out the data -- is one of the communities that's better now, but it's also true that it can stop being like this, because, as we've also commented before, we have the problem with Zenec's vaccine, but I don't want to talk about it, because I talked about it yesterday enough. And really, about what you ask today, we also talk enough, as you said well recently, because this question has already been put to you in Commission 5th, the secretary-general who you just said now to answer, I don't know why he comes back with the question. But I'll tell you without a problem. Look, he also told the secretary that we started vaccination at the age of 80 on February 19. Well, the first of February, 18 days before we started, we asked each other for the lists. Look, we don't have any problems with the mutuals, either. There are some mutualists who choose at the beginning of the year to be in Sergas; all of them are vaccinated perfectly just like the workers and the insured of Sergas, exactly at the same time, and there are other mutualists who choose to be in a private service. We're all vaccinating them, too, but we're not Fairy, Mr. Torrado, we have a health card based information system and, when we transfer the data properly, we can quote them and properly vaccinate them. We're not leaving 90,000 mutualists without making squabbling, which is not true, 90,000 unvaccinated mutualists, which is not true either. I don't think I have to explain to you now the difference between a scribe and a test to an individual patient. The kids, when there's a job theme, the mutualists come in perfectly. When we bring Sergas' personal users together, the mutualists who didn't choose Sergas are not in that target population, I think that's easy to understand, too. And in vaccination, as I'm telling you, despite the difficulties we've had with the listings that have sent us the mutuals, and also some of our problems, which we must also say, are being vaccinated at the same pace as the rest of the citizens of Greece and Wales who are responsible for vaccination. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u275	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u276	Thank you, President. I think it would be nice for you to risk Mr. Pedro Sánchez's assertion. It's also called demagogy, which today is sharing demagogy meats with a fantastic facility. I'm asking you if you think it's also risky that Mr. Feijóo had said the two-month term. From the other, you and I agreed friendlyly -- as you said -- that we were doing well but that we weren't the second autonomous community. The problem is, Feijóo said again today that we were the second, that nothing happens, that it's a detail. I'm saying it because it starts to look like what Mr. Feijóo says and what you say is the same, they're not agreeing many times, they disagree a lot. I've told you once, I trust you more of your data by experience and because I have the feeling that you don't want to lie. I'm not so clear about Mr. Feijóo. "Why do you bring this question again?" So, look, I'll explain it with your answer. Because Mr. Technical Secretary of the Council said in the first answer that they started at the same time as the rest of the vaccination. In the second answer, when we thought it wasn't a good time, he said, "Oh, no, I was wrong, before I started the whole vaccination process, that is, in December. And now you say they started on February 1st. Three answers, three different data. If the problem is that it's a matter -- understand me -- relatively lower, relatively lower than the whole process, but what it points to is that there are some inefficiencies that you're committing because you don't have enough professionals to work in the vaccination system, because more professionals would do it better. I know well that the crows are different than the individual evidence, but I also know -- as you know, and the two of us know that the other one knows, look at what wordplay -- that in the crows were not being called those who were for private mutuals, and that's a problem for the lads because then we're not well raising the population. And we also know both -- and we know that the other one knows, I repeat the wordplay -- that started late, and it's the only one we move into the question, although you seem demagogy: why do some groups that started later and when they're going to match them, because it's inefficient...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u278	...do it wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u279	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, the Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u280	Well, brief reference to the data, once again. Look, it's not what I say or what the president says, it's what the Ministry Report says every day. Data I brought yesterday at the show, data of the 10th day corresponding to the 9th: "Galicia, second community..." well, good, perfect, what you say, Mr. Torrado. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I repeat that I don't come here to suck, that I might have reason to draw breast, not from myself, but from the professionals who are doing the vaccination process. But it's not the case, I think you're asking about a particular subject and I'm going to answer it. First answer, one more time. The Greek mutualists who chose Sergas were vaccinated exactly as anyone else insured in Sergas. Exactly at the same time, in the same place and in the same way. Second answer. The mutualists who didn't choose Sergas, chose private insurance -- and that we're going to vaccinate, of course, that we're vaccinating -- had to do a prior process of incorporating their data into our database. And in that process -- we've already told you, too, that I repeat and I'll send you the mail for your record -- you asked the mutuals on February 1st, 18 days before you started the pilot test of 80 years old -- which is general population -- and that actually started on February 21st, because 20 days earlier, you asked them for the data. They were reaching out, as other collectives arrived, that we already knew it would be so, that by not working with Sergas' population database this would happen. It happened, there were technical problems -- I've already said -- there were problems with us too, in some cases someone we couldn't call in time, exactly like Sergas's ones, we also have Sergas patients who, for various reasons, because of some circumstance that we might not be able to vaccinate in time. But it's not different with mutualists. If I want to insist that you seem to want to lead this problem with mutualists to deal with the lack of personnel, totally false or wrong on your part. Nothing to do with, the problem I'm saying that we had with the mutualists has to do with attacking a collective -- attack, in the best sense of the word -- which was not in our database, which we had to incorporate in an almost manual way, not in the rest. You can see all the population we've been vaccinated, protected by Sergas, how many subjects we've had like this. If the information is in the database there is no problem; in fact, with the mutualists who didn't choose Sergas things began to flow reasonably well when we integrated them into our database. And while that couldn't be done, we had problems, that we have to recognize, but the problem was that. And, of course, it has nothing to do with having more or less personal, because look at the integration of databases by luck makes them a computer system, it doesn't make them a PSX, a cell phone, or an optional one. It has nothing to do with human resources, Mr. Torrado. In any case -- as I say --, they're perfectly incorporated, they're at the same pace as the rest of Sergas insured people. And we trust that in a short time we finish them, as we're finishing right now the group from 60 to 69 -- already finished --. And from yesterday even in the group of 50 to 59, where the mutualists of this group -- by the way, most of them already vaccinated in the educational field basically -- they continue to be vaccinated just like those of Sergas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u281	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Maria Elena Candia López and 6 other Members, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment made by the Rural Environment Council of the involvement of the primary sector in the call for an event of interest for autonomous projects promoted by small and medium-sized enterprises To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Candia López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u282	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counsellor, on October 7, the Central Government presented the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience. This plan that was defined as a country project -- so it was described -- and it had clear directions: the modernization of the Spanish economy, the recovery of economic growth and the creation of employment. In this way, there is a solid, inclusive and resilient reconstruction of our country's economy after this crisis, which we are not yet able to see its dimensions derived from Covid-19. This planning undoubtedly entails the advance of the response to future challenges; in particular, four major challenges identified in the ecological transition: the fair transition, the digital transition and the fight against abandonment and depopulation, as well as the demographic challenge, in which the Galician Union -- its Government -- has been working for years, more than a decade, and continues to insist on the current context. In this sense, and within the framework of this plan, the Government of Greece knows and tells us that it has presented to the Ministry of Ecological Transition and to the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism the Project for the transformation of Galicia, as a transformative initiative that will promote the development of four tractor projects and four transversal projects through which we will try to address these challenges. In view of this, given the importance of the primary sector, which we were able to verify in the most critical situation in the pandemic -- I think we all look more at our rural areas and put more value to our primary sector -- and it is also shown with economic data, the primary sector represents almost 7% of the GDP of our economy; part of these tractors and these transversal projects is geared to supporting them. In that line, the Rural Council called last March for participation through the launch of the call for the manifestation of self-interest of projects promoted by small and medium-sized enterprises, also so important in our primary sector. This basic aim of this demonstration call wanted to identify the projects or initiatives that contribute to defining the strategic lines of action of the primary sector and the agri-food sector, which so many jobs generate in our rural areas and which so many quality products provide. So, also to address those entities interested in developing them in order to maximize the impact of the projects promoted and to carry out actions in key areas for the development of the primary and agri-food sector, mainly in rural areas. Basically this manifestation of interest responded to the search for initiatives for the development of entrepreneurship in rural Galicia, dynamicing the demography and economy of the rural areas of Galicia, as well as the improvement of agricultural holdings with the aim of strengthening its sustainability...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u283	Finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u284	...and the impulse. I beg you, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u285	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candia. [[Mrs. Candia López speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Mrs. Candia López speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up, Mrs. Candia. [[Applause]] Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u286	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I think this question has a lot to do with what happened yesterday with the approval of the Galician Agricultural Land Recovery Act, because it just shows us -- how I will now have an opportunity to explain to all of you -- the importance and transcendence of the territorial base demand for small and medium-sized enterprises -- as Mrs Candia said very well -- of rural Galicia. By putting us in a position, you're talking about the pole for the transformation of Galicia, which is actually an initiative of the Galician Union with 8 projects where the work is being done is to bring European funds to these small and medium-sized enterprises in different sectors. In particular, the pole for the transformation of Galicia affects the primary sector in two areas, I think it is very important. The first of them, as it refers to a fundamental project for the forest sector, such as the biofactory of sustainable textile fibres. And secondly, there's a project inside the pole for the transformation that has to do with the Law of Recovery of Galician Land. By the way of using the instruments of the Recovery Act we proposed a value-added put-up project, set-up of 18,000 hectares of abandoned land and up to 200 model villages. That project was presented -- as you well said -- within the pole for the transformation of Galicia two manifestations of interest: the first, the ecological transition and the Ministry of Industry. And once we had presented and transferred to the Central Government the interest we understood that we had in Galicia and within the National Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, that we could support a project of this nature. We understand that the autonomous community has the capacity to determine where to direct the Next Generation funds, we understand that it was also appropriate to ask the companies in the Greek primary sector what their projects were, for two purposes: on the one hand, you can incorporate them into this territorial basic demand project and, at the same time, to guide the support lines of the next EAFRD. Indeed, this call was made in March. I have to say that its deadline is now extended until May 14th, and that the answer is being extraordinary. And I'm moving the concept of extraordinary into this House that today -- I repeat that the deadline is not yet over -- we already have 637 projects for this manifestation of interest. I'm also interested in moving that in all those projects we set out as a fundamental criterion the demand for territorial base. Right now I can't specify the hectares, because we're still closing the data this morning, but it's a very important number of hectares that they're demanding. And he only comes to confirm what we moved all these days when we were talking about the Law of Recovery, which there is a lot of territorial base demand, which today we have the instruments in Galicia through the Law of Recovery to be able to meet that demand of territorial base. And now we have to also help among all those who finance through the Next Generation funds also help us defend our primary sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u287	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Candia López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u288	I don't hide from you that data, of course, reflects optimism. I have repeatedly said in this House that Galicia is not understood without our rural one. And you were referring to the fact that this very plenary session, yesterday morning, this Parliament gave green light to one more instrument that will allow us to address much better prepared and with much more tool the great challenges of our primary sector. But no doubt -- and without any interpretation of triumphalism, with total humility -- that figure that you have now told us here reflects that we have, of course, a live rural, a rural with a great deal of future. And that, of course, the policies that are being put in place by the Government of Greece help to address this new stage where public-private collaboration, where the achievement of European funds puts us and places us in a stage of certainly illusion and optimism, however, as you know, of the difficult circumstances that we have to live through. I would also ask you that, within these 600, if possible, you would allow us to realize a little more that initiatives can be identified in those projects in our rural areas that will undoubtedly allow you to address also in a much better position that illusion that we have to fix population in our rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u289	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candia. For the Government's reply, Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, today's demonstration call -- which, I repeat, was for autonomous projects linked to the primary sector -- sought to identify initiatives that aim at the development of the enterprise in the rural region of Galicia by dynamicing demographic and economically the rural areas of Galicia, improving agricultural holdings to strengthen their sustainability, boosting bio-economics, energy transition as an attraction of activities and population from sustainable and accessible energy, new agri-food business models adapted to the green economy and the ecological transition, and increasing production oriented to products of differentiated quality and obtained in a sustainable and eco-friendly way with criteria of social, economic and environmental profitability. And finally, developing agri-food sector projects that cater to the main components of the national plan -- there would be more --. I, as a reflection, would say that it surprises me when we talk here about big businesses and issues that affect the pole for the transformation of Galicia, because this is part of the pole for the transformation of Galicia and addressed small and medium-sized enterprises in the Greek primary sector. So, look, they're presenting projects to this manifestation of interest from the smallest winegrower to the low-lying farmer who has a low territorial base and territorial demand. And the German Government did what it did was give a simplified form so that even the smallest of these entrepreneurs could make their requests. And, in fact, me and the general directors of the Rural Council gave the relevant explanations, we made webinars to encourage everyone. And, I repeat, the answer is certainly very satisfactory. At this time we have projects, by quoting and responding to what you said, of different cooperatives both in the field of beef and milk cattle, also in the field of viticulture, we have garden projects, and we have certainly a lot of demand, and I think it is also important to put it as manifesto here in this House, for model villages; that is, there are companies interested in the construction and rehabilitation of model villages for different purposes, both those connected with the green economy and the silver economy, with tourism, with different purposes. What we want to move, and I also think it is important, is that these expressions of interest are doing what Europe is asking us to do, to know what the interests of private companies are in this case of the primary sector of Greece, and from there they are able to guide what public funds are towards that business interest. And I would like to move here from Galicia to Central Government the importance of taking into account autonomous communities in the design of the national plan. It's very good that we make our contributions, that we send them to Europe, but it would also be very important to bear in mind that anyone who knows the primary sector of Galicia is precisely the Union of Galicia, the autonomous community of Galicia. And here the projects essentially demand a territorial base, and the way to achieve the territorial base goal for our farms is, without a doubt, to put in place the instruments of the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-05-12-DSPG036.u291	Thank you very much, Counselor. Finished the agenda points, we finished the session.
