ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting with the fifth item on the agenda, questions for the President's oral answer. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, about the orientation of the next generation funds to improve public services, modernize the economy and generate employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u2	Mr. Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work for better reactivation, for economic reactivation that enables the economic modernization of the country, for the strengthening of public services and also for the generation of quality employment. My commitment to this Parliament and to the reactivation is unshakeable and, of course, I will continue to transfer all those proposals and measures to the Galician Council to take a proper look at the situation and also to make adequate management of existing resources to favour the Greeks and the Greeks. That is the challenge we have, that is the priority of the Socialist Party. It is in Spain, it is in Galicia and in every corner of the country. And we want the Government of the Union to manage its funds with the greatest efficiency, with the greatest capacity, so that no one is left behind and to take advantage of European funds in all the challenges that we have ahead. The outcome of this crisis must be done on the left, with policies of progress. We must make use of the investment opportunities that European funds offer. And there the Government of Spain has done a great deal of managing to get 140 billion euros -- more than 72,000 dollars lost -- for Spain, which means we're going to have a very important fund-raising -- that we're already having --. And I wanted to ask the president of the Galician board how he values and how he's managing this possibility and this huge amount of funds he's in his hands. I would like to ask, firstly, why over the last few years the Government of Galicia has suspended in managing European funds. The last report of the Board of Auditors shows that you have left four out of every ten euros that have reached the European Funding Board in Galicia, four out of every ten euros! Corroborate it by the Board of Auditors. You explain to Galicia why there was no better management and how you are now going to manage better to leave the execution on a level appropriate to the challenges ahead. Secondly, I would like to ask you, Mr Feijóo, how do you value the double 30% increase in Galicia this year 2022 -- an increase of 30% in the territorialized investment of the general government's budgets for Galicia and also an increase of 31% in European funds coming from Galicia's budgets for 2022 --. Behind these increases are the European funds, there is management of a different approach to getting out of this crisis and also a Congress of Members who voted in favour of those funds being already being used in Spain and Galicia -- with the vote against, of course, the People's Party --. There will be a 29% increase in territorial investment in Galicia in the state's general budgets next year, and a 31% increase in European funds coming from Galicia's budgets. That's why the budgets of the Union are going to spend and invest again on historical peaks. How do you value it? Thirdly, Mr Feijóo, I would like to ask you what the effects you are detecting, on employment and modernization, of the European funds you are already spending from the budgets of the Union and what is the valuation of the EUR 500 million that will be incorporated from the funds of the recovery and resilience mechanism to the budgets of the year 2022. And fourthly, let's also make an assessment, Mr. Feijóo, of how the Galician Union is facing the priorities for managing all this amount of funds that reach the Union. What are your priorities?, how do you guarantee the Greeks and the Greeks an efficient and equitable use of these funds and how will it strengthen the exit of the crisis? And he also explains, Mr. Feijóo, how you are developing the priority projects you sent to the Government of Spain -- the four selected as top priority -- so they can raise European funds and promote reactivation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u4	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Caballero, of course, we will continue to listen very carefully to all the questions that you want to move to the Government and all your proposals, your group's proposals, in connection with this matter or any other which the group deems appropriate. You certainly say that the Government of Spain has achieved 140 billion euros of European funds. And you also know that last Thursday we find that there is a contract, an agreement, signed between the Government of Spain and the European Union, in which the requirements and conditions are fulfilled to be able to assume that 140 billion euros -- 70,000 worth lost and 70,000 in loans --. We don't know those requirements or those conditions, we don't really know what the Government of Spain has to do to be able to receive those funds, neither in loans nor in deep-lost grants. So, Your Honor, when you tell me we're going to receive, I don't know how many funds, what you don't tell me is what conditions and requirements the Government imposes upon us all of the Spaniards -- and consequently to the Greeks -- in order to opt for those funds. Are you going to raise your taxes? Are you going to impose a tax on Spanish highways at a cost per kilometer and thus discriminate constantly and intensely against the Galician community? Are they going to increase the retirement age deadlines? Are they going to increase the share of Social Security? Those are, Your Honor, the conditions that we need to know exactly to propose an economic policy according to an agreement we don't know -- and therefore without transparency -- that you seem to have signed with the European Union. What did we do? To fulfill our goals and commitments, and to present a proposal, which enters into the axes of the Plan of Recovery and Transformation signed by the Government of Spain, without knowing the conditions for handling that plan and that recovery. Now tell us the Government of Spain that, after presenting all the projects, we have to choose three. What would you think if Junta were only able to present three projects to the Central Government? What would you say if we only chose three of the country's industrial and economic operating system? What would you say, Your Honor? That we don't have a global idea what we want to do with the funds and that we don't have a proper economic and industrial policy. What have we done, Your Honor? First, to do our work, which is to present all the projects that the committee of experts and that the economic policies and industrial policies of the autonomous community have achieved as priorities. They're all here, Your Honor, all of them! So what we want to do should you know him. It's published, it's issued, it's known. A follow-up committee has been set up in this Parliament to be able to put forward proposals, amendments and additions. And how many did the Socialist Party do? None. Look, in the last debate of the state of Autonomy we proposed a resolution to, first, demand real co-governance; secondly, to establish transparent and equitable criteria; and thirdly, to specify which priorities are: automotive, agri-food chain and personalized medicine. What did the opposition groups do? Don't support him. The BNG, of course, voted against. The PSOE simply abstained. We plant one of the vertebral axes in the forest, which is the textile fibre factory. What did the BNG do? To vote against. What did you do? Then he supported us. We can keep working. What are our priorities? They are known: the forest sector and the industry associated with the green transition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u7	... -- projects for 3 billion euros and 29,000 jobs -- ; automotive -- projects for 1.2 billion euros and 1,000 jobs, specifically in the Galician automotive system -- ; in the agri-food sector there are projects for 1 billion euros, with the creation of 4,000 jobs; in the field of custom medicine there are projects for 500 million and the creation of 400 jobs. Therefore, only the priorities that we have selected and forwarded, as indicated by the Government Vice-Presidentship, are EUR 6 billion and EUR 34,000 jobs. This is what we want to do, Your Honor. It seems reasonable, therefore, that if you have any proposals, they say so. What is clear, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u9	...is that for now the Galician Union, on the Next Generation, on the European funds for economic and industrial projects, received zero, zero! And what is clear is that from the funds that transferred to the Galician Union to the treasury received 600 million euros less than they correspond to the financing system. Those are the conclusions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u10	Thank you, President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u11	And what do their socialist colleagues say in other autonomous communities? That we need another fund covered in the year 2022. The Galician Socialist Party agrees? Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u12	Thank you. Mr. Caballero's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u13	Mr President, I ask you for courage to guide the future rather than apathy to manage the present. I ask you to take on Galicia's challenges as the main construction engine for a new postkovic stage. I ask you to commit yourself to the Greeks and to the Greeks, to modernization, to cohesion, to equity. Let, Mr. Feijóo, be looking for a government that speaks to each of our country's fundamental challenges and governs itself. Take advantage of the funds that are already in Galicia, because, when you talk about the budgets of the Galician Union, of what you are already spending, you are already having the opportunity to invest the next generation funds. His own counselor clearly said: "Galice in next year's budgets has given over 500 million to run next generation's funds. Now we have to be able to manage them successfully." You yourself have to recognize that you are already having a very high cost and investment possibility thanks to those funds that are already in Galicia and that you are managing thanks to an economic policy marked by a government other than what you would like -- that you would want a government of cuts, adjustment, austerity, rather than an investment and reactivation government --. And when you talk about what the conditions are, what I'm telling you is that this year Galicia is going to have a double increase of 30%: 30% more European funds in the budgets of the Galician Union, which allow the possibilities of spending to be raised to a maximum of history, and an increase of 30% in the general State budgets in Galicia on territorial investment, which allows Galicia and every Welshman to receive much more than in the average of the state. Value those funds and learn how to manage them. And of course, when we talk about conditions, you have the ability to spend and not have to contribute. So when you point out that they want to lower taxes in Galicia, they usually do it to the millionaires, to the most powerful -- that's right, because they get the funds from the general government budgets --. Others get the funds so you don't have to have a minimum tax liability and you can invest and spend without having to be collecting. And that's also an element that you have to take into account. Of course, when it comes to terms, we're going to be with the Greeks and the Greeks. I told you, Mr. Feijóo, that my commitment to Galicia and this Parliament is and will be unforgettable, that I will continue to work for the Greeks and the Greeks where they put us: in opposition to the People's Party. And I ask you to rule where the Greeks put it: in front of the Galician Union, making the best management and with the best possibilities for our country, that's the big challenge. And where there's no need to defend the Greeks, we'll do it. If under the conditions of the European institutions they suggest that we have to impose duties on the Greek highways, I already tell you that that will not be in my priorities or in my understanding of how to manage reactivation. And I mean, like I said two years ago on the first news that came out on that line.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u15	While I applaud a government in Spain who invests more in Galicia, a government in Spain that allows to lower the rates of AP-9, without a doubt, our commitment is Galicia and will continue to be Galicia by the Greeks and the Greeks, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u16	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Close the question by Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u17	Gentlemen, thank you very much. I think we all understand your message, so I can only be glad that you continue to work undisturbedly for Galicia and that you continue to transfer me to all control sessions what you think is appropriate for us to do -- I suppose among all of us -- given the situation in which we are living --. [[Laughter]] To reassure you, I want to transfer the official data on the execution of the European funds. We have surpassed 14 points to the average execution of Feder funds from all over Spain -- 14 points more than the average of all autonomous communities in Spain -- and we are the fifth autonomous community with more execution of Feder funds from all over Spain. You can always get better, Your Honor, but you can go through 14 points in the middle of Spain... and I'd like to go over them in other parameters as well. You say we lower taxes thanks to the Government of Spain. Why doesn't the Government of Spain do it, which also receives European funds? If the Government of Spain is currently leaving 70% of European funds because it is not transferring them to autonomous communities, why not use it to lower taxes? Your Honor, in 2016 we began to lower taxes, and there were no European funds, nor was there the current situation. And since that, the Greek families paid 1 billion euros less in taxes. So, Your Honor, don't just come here to give an opinion -- not a given -- about tax policy. The question, Your Honor, is whether we can be clarified or at least referred to the agreement that the Government of Spain has signed with the European authorities to receive the funds. You with euphemism -- you now carry a lot of euphemisms on the left -- you said it wasn't your priority to establish beaches on the highways. I don't know if it's your priority or not. We are where we have always been, in the corner of Europe. If you set a toll per mile on the highways, you know perfectly well that we're down on all the competitive rankings, and our commodities, our export capacity and our supply capacity are down on the most central places in Spain. So the Socialist Party has to tell us exactly what it's going to do. And you, who is responsible for that party in the House, should come here with some concrete proposal. So what I'm left with is that it's not a priority for you to put peas on the highways. All right, what happens is we have to take one more step, Your Honor. Look, Your Honor, we have this project. It's a government project. And then we have priorities referred to the Government as well. I asked him during the debate if you had any priorities. He didn't say anything. I asked you for support for rationalization and the objective of the next generation's distribution criteria, and you didn't object to me. And I asked for your support, Your Honor, for co-governance, and neither. We're receiving 600 million euros less than we were, and neither. And you tell me we've got an amount. Home!, as you can imagine, of 70,000 euros I suppose some amount will arrive in the country. But, look, what would you think if the Galician Council announced more than a year ago that it received European funds and still no one paid a euro from those funds? What would you say if we said one year ago that we have European funds but we have not yet approved the bases or calls to execute those funds? And what would you say if you proposed to the opposition -- that you propose 354 projects -- that you choose three? Do you know what I'd say, now that you're calmer from an organic point of view? What I'd say is that there's no transparency in the board, there's no co-governance, and you'd even say there's no governance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u19	Because what we know right now is that we don't know anything. What we know is that the Ministry of Industry is 12 billion euros undistributed. What we know, Your Honor, is that these funds can be used by the Central Government to alleviate their parliamentary instability. What we know and fear is that this European money coming to Galicia can be used to maintain the government's parliamentary instability and to deal with its partners.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u21	That's already contrasted in the field of the car. Before presenting the proposals in the car sector, the battery factory went to Catalonia. Mr. Knight, I will continue to work with you all that you allow me to. What we're not going to say, as is natural, is that all this is very good and that what we have to do is shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u23	Of course there's work to be done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u24	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u25	...but, of course, to shut up, defending Galicia's interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u26	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u27	...of course not, Mr. Knight. I hope you don't either. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u28	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Union of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the escalation of prices and its impact on families and productive sectors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u29	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u30	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Feijóo, few issues concern both the families, the working class, any person who lives on average wages or a pension, as at the end of the month. And, as you will understand, the rise in prices -- in particular, the rise in the bill of light -- is making reaching the end of the month an impossible mission for many Greeks and Greeks. And it's also a difficulty added to get out of the crisis. And let's go to the data. In October 2020 prices rose by 0.3%, i.e. three tenths. One year later, the rise is 5,5 %. And we could think this difference is normal because a year ago we were in the middle of the pandemic. But if we take as a reference October 2019, the price rise is even higher: it goes from 0.1% to 5.5%. It rises the light, rises the water, rises the gas, fuels and even basic foods -- for example, oil, which increases by 23 % --. In September, food rose by an average of 4,6 %; housing, water, electricity, gas and fuel costs by 17,3 %; transport costs by 10,2 %. And I remind you, Mr. Feijóo, that the wages in Galicia are below average and that we have the second lowest pensions in the whole state. But every day it's more expensive to pay the bill of light, fill in the car store or shop at the supermarket. Although, no doubt, what the palm is carrying is the increase in the price of light, until it becomes a real scam. Today the megavatio/hour is in 199 euros, when a year ago it was 50 -- nothing less than an increase of 293% --. This, translated into the bill of light, means a 40% increase in average increment. This rise in a country rich in electricity is demolition for families but also for businesses. And he's leaving thousands of jobs at risk. And this, in addition, has a devastating effect that has an impact on all economic sectors. And there we have, for example, the dairy sector, which is going through a difficult situation because it has already been bearing low milk prices, and even on many occasions under production costs. And now he's suffering, in addition, the increase in the price of raw materials and light, which is putting many farms in a limited position. So, Mr. Feijóo, I ask you what are the proposals and measures of your government to alleviate the effects of the rise of the IPC and, in particular, the scandalous bill of light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Pontón, indeed, rising prices is an important problem. In my opinion, it is the most important problem that is happening in Spain right now and, consequently, in Galicia. In fact, I agree with you that it is essential to take seriously the effects of the tax that records all incomes, and that they have more difficulties, to cope with it, low incomes and average incomes, which is the IPC. Today all Spanish families and, consequently, the Galicians are poorer -- about 5% -- and that's why it's a good time to lower taxes. Your Honor, we have seen a fairly long period of price stability. Between 2012 and the following years the prices were around 2 %, and there were even some years of negative developments. And now, in the last part of this year, prices have increased exponentially. It's the highest price escalation in the last 20 years. It's true, Your Honor, that this is not just a problem of Spain, it's a problem of the whole Western economy. Spain has a price increase of 5,5 % and the euro area of 4,1 %. Therefore, Spain has a higher increase within this massive price escalation. You know well, Your Honor, that there are different causes, and base effects, why prices go up. First of all, because we've been in a pandemic for 18 months, with which factories worked slow and consumers couldn't consume. And now there's a reservoir of savings in many families. Now there's an increase in consumption, an increase in demand, and the supply doesn't reach that demand. And there's also a problem with the transfer and circulation of freight and merchandise. This is the situation we're living in. That's why I'm glad that the BNG takes note of the situation in which we are and that it implements its economic policy and its alliances. It would therefore be good to know exactly what BNG is going to do in relation to the central government's economic policy and the budget for the year 2022. Will you support these budgets and economic policy or not? Look, Your Honor, what can you do? First of all, to present credible and real public accounts, and therefore not to lie in income, not to increase public debt exponentially, not to increase taxes to families -- which already pay the IPC tax --. Because if we don't, we're going to get out of control of the deficit, raise the debt and have to cut in the next few years. The first question, Your Honor, is that these assumptions that we present meet all the requirements: lower taxes, do not increase debt exponentially, maintain social spending and increase investments. The second proposal is clearly to lower taxes. Why? Because they're already coming up with the IPC. And if the Galician families have to pay all those price increases exponentially, let's lower their income tax, let's lower the tax base of the autonomic basket. That's our proposal. I hope you evaluate it, and that it evaluates it with a vote in favour of the lowering of taxes from the Greek families. Thirdly, support workers through the most economic sectors punished by the crisis. With 600 million euros we support the economic sectors most punished by the crisis. We have approved the Act of Reactivation and are currently processing the Law of Business Areas. You always vote against everything -- at least until Sunday --. [[Murmurs.]] So, Your Honor, what are we asking for? Well, look, you support a tax drop...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u34	...that you support balanced public accounts and, above all, that you continue to support the help we give to families. For example, that you support the freezing of university fees -- that Galicia has been practising for more than a decade -- that you support that children, boys, boys and girls under 21 don't pay for urban transport -- and that where you rule, who rule in all cities with PSOE, who don't pay urban transport --. What do we propose, Your Honor? Children's schools are free throughout Galicia for all children. You support an amendment to the state budget to co-finance it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u36	What do we propose, Your Honor? Follow our policies, of course. Do you know that Galicia is the autonomous community across Spain that helps families more in electrical costs? You continue to support this kind of policy and, of course, Mrs Pontón, let's lower taxes. Because the IPC is the most expensive tax that saves the lowest income, it's the most unfair of all taxes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u38	And if we're on a rising IPC stratosphere, it's time to support a tax drop. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u40	Mr. Feijó, I don't know if I understand. Today you came to this control session saying that the problem is that BNG does not support the policies of the People's Party. It's really a surprising thing, Mr. Feijó. Look, we think we need to help with economic reactivation. But their recipes are recipes that have already failed in the past. Because what you're proposing to us is to lower your taxes to those who have the most. And we believe that in this crisis the ones that have the most, have to contribute to the resources for families to whom the cost of life is rising and who have no alternatives. [[Applause]] And that, when we have thousands of families drowned by the rising cost of living -- and I want to remind you that in this country, according to the latest official data, we have 320,000 people living in severe poverty -- when we have pemmes and our own self-sufficients doing juggling to cope with a really difficult situation, or when we have economic sectors against the ropes, as the dairy sector can be, the president of the board comes here to tell us that he's not going to do anything at all, nor will he put any extraordinary measures on the table. And it's just like his escapism that we see amazing situations. I received in my email yesterday a request from your Middle Rural Counsellor to ask me to do the work you don't do: to negotiate with Madrid a solution to the unfair prices of the crisis. Mr. Feijó, if he is unable to put solutions, of course what he should do is leave room. [[Applause]] Because it's amazing that you've been ruling for twelve years and here telling us that it's the fault of the Galician Nationalist Block. And, look, what we're worried about is checking how far you're following the catechism of the People's Party's most ultra-history, that catechism that says you have to lower your taxes to high incomes when what we need is a fair tax; or that catechism that was reaffirmed in that Valencia convention, where we saw how a People's Party went out more ultra, so far so that they have the nerve to propose to the Constitutional Court people like Enrique Arnaldo, linked to cases of corruption and that, of course, is an example of how you understand politics -- they already said so in that convention --. We, Mr Feijóo, believe that action must be taken, that action must be taken to put measures on the table to curb the energy costs fired. And I'll tell you again that you've got the hand of the BNG so we can defend a Welsh electric tariff, so we can use the electricity that this country has to benefit businesses and families. Because, of course, I think that in Galicia the only person who doesn't understand that we have the right to benefit from that wealth is you. Perhaps what blinds him is the turning doors, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question by Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, since 2016 I am very proud that the Greek families pay less taxes in Galicia. You want them to pay more taxes. We want them to pay less. That's an obvious difference. I do not ask you to support the People's Party's proposals, what I ask you to do is not support the Socialist Party's proposals, because it is obvious that your economic policy is adding a danger of increasing prices to the consumption we are currently living in the state. [[Applause]] But, Your Honor, we started lowering the income tax of physical people in 2014, we lowered it again in 2016. We don't charge taxes all over the country for buying, permuting or acquiring land. We have one of the lowest taxes in heritage transmissions for numerous families, single-parent families and people with disabilities. We are the fourth autonomous community with lower tax pressure in Spain. And that seems wrong to you, of course. The price rises, the light rises, the prices of all raw materials are increased, the livestock can't reach the end of the month, the price of milk doesn't cover the costs and its proposal is to raise taxes. Well, Your Honor, let's see that you raise taxes to high incomes. Do you think raising the diesel tax is raising the tax to high incomes? Do you think increasing the registration tax is raising the tax to high incomes, or putting taxes on the highways -- which is the economic policy that you support -- or increasing the maximum basis for contributions, or increasing the IRPF, or being confined to an outrage of the German civil right by the Spanish Socialist Workers Party -- that wants to take away the exemptions from the inheritances in life -- by the boulevards of the Galician Nationalist Block? [[Applause]] Your Honor, do you think that really improves the family economy? Look, the improvement in the family economy is that today a Greek taxpayer pays 400 euros less than he paid when you rule here, in full economic favor, 403 euros less in income than when you rule in Galicia! That's what we think can alleviate the problems of global tax, which is consumer price tax. Look, why don't you ask the central government to lower taxes, like we do in Galicia? At least during inflationary time, because, every time it comes up to a price, the EVI follows at 21%; every time it rises to the diesel, the Government and the Ministry of Fairy takes from the EVI 21%; every time it rises to the prices the Government carries 21%; every time it rises to the light the Government carries 50% in light taxes and a public enterprise -- the Spanish Electric Network -- 20%. It's a job for the state archives to raise the price of light! Look, Mrs Pontón, why does it seem wrong to you to condition your Member's vote in the Courts so that an amendment is included which guarantees the owners who cover what they deserve in the Food Quality Act that is being dealt with in the Senate? Is it wrong for the government to ask you for a vote? [[Murmurs.]] Don't you say you only owe Galicia? Everyone here owes itself to Galicia, but when they leave the House the only thing they owe is the PSOE to the BNG and the BNG to the PSOE, constantly! This is really the novelty of prices, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I'm used to almost everything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u44	Now, let the BNG tell me that I am responsible for fuel rise worldwide, that I am responsible for the crisis of microchips in Asia, or that I am also responsible for the international increase in raw materials, I suppose it will be a joke. In any case, Your Honor, we are not responsible, but we must fight it. [[Murmurs.]] And we're fighting it with concrete economic policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u46	...as is a generalized tax drop to all the Greeks so they can bear the increase in consumer prices. If you want to be with the Greeks, you know what you have to do, preach less, and work more. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u47	Thank you, President. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which is interpeleration. And we start with Mrs. Prado Colors. Question by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Galician Union in the field of primary health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u48	Whenever you want, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u49	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. I have to tell you again that primary care is exhausted after years of working as a health system trench. Primary care based on proximity, accessibility, professional-patient direct relationship, continuity of assistance is more than at risk. And the People's Party is responsible for this situation because it has made the air leap into those foundations that I have just named and which are the real basis of what primary care should be. This progressive degradation is the result of political decisions -- not technical, but political --, of a policy of the People's Party based on the dismantling of public health, a twelve-year policy of continuous retirements predictable and that by political decision were not replaced; twelve years of budget cuts -- mainly intended for primary care -- ; twelve years of dismantling of the primary care directive structures that have sided it up and left it without capacity for decision-making or reaction; twelve years of pride, Counsellor, pride, not listening to professionals who denounced this situation and who demanded to be able to work in decent conditions -- because it is not a last-minute survival issue, but it has been so -- twelve years of refusing to incorporate new professions into primary care, new categories, so that the population can receive comprehensive health care; twelve years of people managing health with headlines and not with real measures for primary care. And in the face of this situation, discontent only grows. There is no one without making public the concern and discomfort about the situation of primary care. There's no one left to move his concern. There are complaints about fatigue, saturation, and permanent pressure that makes it impossible to work. There are population mobilizations to request solutions to the situation in health centres, the lack of professionals, the lack of pediatricians, to request the presence of care, the reopening of peripheral consultants. And I can name just a few places: Sex, Meis, The Guard, Ponteareas, Moaña, Gondomar, Village of Cruces, Otes, Carballo, Viveiro, O Barco, Burela, Mondariz or Poio. They're just a few places where the population is being mobilized because it can't stand this situation anymore, because it can't stand it anymore. The primary health care facilities in Pontevedra and Salnes are being mobilized for weeks now to denounce overburdening and abuse, to claim dignified working conditions and daily forecasts so they can know whether tomorrow, or last, they're going to have to work or not, so that the prolongation of the day is an exception and not the norm. [[Applause]] It's just that the solution can't be forced to work longer hours, more hours and more hours. That can't be the solution, Counselor, to the outcome you've provoked and for which no action has been made. They claim that this time overload and abuse provokes the exodus of the people who are being trained, which of the thirteen who have recently been trained in the health care area, there are only three in primary care. I should take note. Once again I have to tell you what to take note because, 13 in the health area, there are only three left. More discontented: medical schools have filed criminal complaints about the risk of such aid pressure, that permanent relief overload, or now announce resources against that demand management system, that XIDE that you put in place and that means more than more work. There are alarm voices that will be joined in a single voice this Sunday at the demonstration called by the SOS Public Health platform, here in Compostela, in defense of public health -- especially primary care --. From here, on behalf of the BNG, I want to transfer all support for this mobilization. [[Applause]] There are thousands of SOS, of relief messages, for lack of personnel, for lack of presence, for fatigue and scarcity, for seeing that there is no improvement on the table that makes you see some light at the end of the tunnel; professional relief messages that they are leaving because they don't want to work in a situation where they can't do their job well, because they can't care well for patients who walk away, who leave in private or who ask for excesses because they can't work. And the question, Counsellor, is: what alternative does it offer to the Greeks and to the Greeks in the face of the shortage of optional, optional, pediatricians?, what is the alternative, Counsellor, because the alarm voices are by the finding that this deterioration is ground paid for the increase in private health? There are already thousands of alarm voices that are seeing this deterioration situation as nothing but paying the ground to private health. And the question is, what is the People's Party's response to these enormous problems of primary care? What has been done since the People's Party's Health Council? The answer is that they didn't notice but, quite the contrary, what they're doing is going in the opposite direction using the pandemic again to accelerate that policy of harassment and overthrow of public health -- and especially of primary care --. What have they done in the face of this situation? Fewer budgets, Counselor. At the time you preach that they have a tremendously expansive budget and that is the social most in history and in the world, the health budget only increases by 0.03%. When we're still in the middle of the pandemic, when we still don't know what's going to happen in the immediate -- the alarms are there -- you happen to just increase the budget in health. But what's more serious is that in primary care -- that's being this real containment dam, that real trench -- not only is it just increasing, but they're lowering it with respect to 2021. There are 2 million euros less in the 2022 budget than in the year 2021. And all the reports say primary care should be 25% of the budget. The point is, we're already under the state average, and you're still lowering budgets for primary care this year. There are 47 million euros less than twelve years ago in absolute numbers -- that if we applied the IPC update would mean 277 million euros less than twelve years ago, and with increased need for attention --. How can health care be provided at least of a quality! [[Applause]] How can primary care demands be met with fewer budgets, Counsellor! I hope you explain it to me in your speech. What are they doing in the face of this situation? To worsen the working conditions of the professionals and the professionals, not to renew the contracts covered, these extraordinary contracts that they made because of the pandemic, which seemed to be only possible contracts of one day, two days, one week, and it turns out that if it was possible to make contracts, at least six months or one year, it was what they did with these extraordinary contracts. And it turns out there's still a lot of work to do. We're now with the flu vaccine, with the third dose, and it turns out that they don't renew these contracts to the staff. They say they'll renew everything they need, but that it's necessary not only 100 percent of those who were hired but even more than 100 percent of those who were hired. So, I'm asking you from here to renew the contracts to all those people who were hired. They put out the back door in the accompanying law of these budgets a new contract for optional staff -- again they use the budget law so that there is no debate, not to negotiate with anyone, to cancel agreements -- a contract that is not completely satisfying anyone, Counsellor. They want us to be convinced that they're creating new squares -- that's their speech -- when it's actually just a stabilization, at best, of staff squares that I was already working on in Sergas. They force the CAP professionals to work without rest or they don't incorporate more staff, but they do the same thing that they're working more. What other question -- in the face of this situation -- is the People's Party doing? Well, a new algorithm dating system. Instead of getting more professional, it turns out that they want the machines to decide what kind of consultations needs the population -- these are the major measures of the People's Party -- or to announce a master infrastructure plan after they have presented the budgets. For most of those who are announcing have no game in budgets. These are the major measures of the People's Party in the face of the problems of primary care. There is no strategy to allow you to see what the roadmap is. And I have to tell you, Counselor, is that, if primary care is lacking, the failure extends to the whole system. You know it perfectly well. If the foundation that is primary care fails, this failure will be chained to the rest of the system. And at this rate, at this rate of deterioration, we are at a crossroads of a widespread collapse. It's not alarmism, it's what has come to denounce absolutely everyone but the People's Party, which is in their world of Yupi and doesn't want to see reality. Primary care needs a strengthening that, from the point of view of BNG and -- I insist -- from the point of view of thousands of Greeks and Greeks and of all professionals, doesn't allow any more delay. That's why the question, Counsellor, is: what is the planning of the Galician Union to ensure that primary care is the real center of the health system?, what will you do to get the primary attention out of this limited situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u51	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, we spoke again in this primary care plenary, after that, just over a week ago, in the appearance of budgets, we had devoted a lot of it to talking about this level of care. I respond at the first plenary session of November to an interpellation made in May, and whose content, in its entirety, has already been dealt with in an interpellation from a plenary session to mid-September. I understand that today we are working on this initiative so that we can continue to transfer to society a false picture of the health reality, since this social alarm you are talking about on occasion is only that you from your party encourage and generate. In contrast to this attitude of "criticism because yes" I will try to explain today what is the progress and measures in primary care about which we have been working on for months and on which we have periodically reported in this Parliament. I mean, far from bothering me having to talk about primary care and respond to their criticisms, it seems to me a good opportunity to account for the progress made on the commitments that both the president and the general director of Health Planning and Reform and myself have communicated in parliamentary headquarters and in other forums. And I speak especially of this general direction because it was created precisely for this, in order to be able to address a new model of care in the field of primary and in the rest of the fields, and to be able to move forward towards the health of the future with components and conditions that we currently count on. You have the strategy of despising and alarming. And we have a roadmap started in 2018 with the primary care plan -- of which, by the way, you never talk -- which is what the experts have marked us in the document For primary health system vertebrate care. For this reason, in addition to implementing measures which I will talk about later, we keep the participation of all the groups involved alive. So, after the pandemic, we recovered the activity of the Primary Care Council, and last October 28 we held the eighth meeting in 2021. In addition, we held meetings with the tables of..., as it couldn't be otherwise -- the last one was November 4, -- and also with professional schools, whether with doctors or with nurses. [[Intelligible.]] And even we've created an independent follow-up commission on the document mentioning -- For primary vertebrate health care -- consisting of seventeen independent experts. Therefore, Mrs Prado, there is broad participation, listening to and following up on the measures, and it is the very ones who have the keys to advance the reform we want. Mrs. Prado, since the Galician Union we've been launching actions to alleviate the staff deficit. What happens is, you don't like these measures. As of 2015, we reviewed our human resources plan and incorporated non-compulsory retirement for those aged 65. I want to thank all the professionals who, at that age, have kept working with us, who are a fundamental part of this situation right now. We also put in place the continuity contract, which also doesn't like you and which, for example, leads in the 2022 budget to the consolidation of 86 new squares with this contract profile. Not mentioned primary care plan we incorporate 331 squares in primary care, Mrs Prado. In addition, this year's budget includes 109 more primary care squares -- 28 pharmacies and 81 nursing --. Again, these squares don't look like anything. And we'll move on to the staff line -- then we'll talk about the budget --. One of our goals is to have a category, or potential, that is health technician, to incorporate medical personnel, in this case non-specialist -- because our problem is in specialists -- and that this figure collaborates with medical staff in bureaucratic and reporting work. In the same way -- and not through the back door, Mrs. Prado -- we want to develop the category of optional primary care specialist, which, as it happens in hospital institutions, does ordinary and extraordinary care work. And keeping, of course, the conditions that the current medical conditions of the health centres and the CAP. No one here is violating anyone's rights. With the October meeting with the sectoral table, we are committed to reviewing the primary human resources management plan. From Galicia we have taken measures and decisions, but the staff deficit is a common problem in all health systems. This was reflected in the presence meeting of the Interterritorial Council held in Canary Islands, in which Galicia requested that the rules governing the accreditation of squares be amended. It must be said that the Ministry took note and opened a deadline for public consultation to draw up a new order regulating the formative program of this specialty. Galicia has transferred 20 proposals in writing to facilitate the accreditation system and improve training -- of course, measures taken by listening to professionals who are currently developing training tasks in primary care -- including that residents spend more time in health centres during the residency period. Even so, a primary care action plan is being drawn up by the Ministry, and so far we only count on the draft. But we can see in this draft how Galicia has advanced its proposed measures. Of the 54 actions collected in this draft, 23 correspond to autonomous communities, and Galicia has already done or in development 17 of them; that is, 74% of the action plan measures the Ministry is doing are already advanced in Galicia -- to hear here that we are not doing anything --. We cannot forget either the creation of the emergency specialty, the support of the whole group and the meaningless dilated ministry. We continue to call for an extraordinary MIR or at least with a greater number of primary care squares. The last time was this same week, with the Director General of Professional Order, because we believe this is one of the fundamental ways to address the shortage of professionals that we suffer from all autonomous communities. That's why Galicia has already sent all the documentation of the applications for 64 new primary care training squares, going from 142 to 206 -- which means an increase of 45 % --. And we also ask these new squares to leave this year's summons. The ball is now on the Ministry's roof, which we hope to meet Galicia's request, since this would allow us to shorten our time to solve the problem of staff deficit. In the previous interpellation, it also advanced that quality schedules for optional staff are already being implemented. We're also working on nursing schedules right now -- they're closed -- which were transferred last week to health areas -- although their deployment will wait until the pre-natal period for influenza vaccination or, at the moment, for the third dose of coronavirus -- is over. We have also started the meeting with the working groups that will allow them to define the schedules of midwives and dentists, and in the coming weeks they will also begin those of dental hygienists. And before the end of the year, we'll also count on the work started for the pharmacy and social work categories. This implementation of the agendas allows -- and so we can see it in the case of doctors -- to ensure and optimize the time of professionals by adapting it to the real needs of their consultations. They are organisational measures that seek to improve accessibility and better address demand. So we could move forward towards that goal of reaching at the end of the year 60% of the presence in all health areas. Also in September, TAO's instruction was advanced, which has already been sent to health areas and is beginning to work in its implementation; an instruction that seeks to introduce improvements to the care and organisational level. Patients gain accessibility and are treated in a single act, where they are controlled, if they renew their medication pattern and give them a new appointment. In this case, the nursing professionals are consulted -- of course in coordination with the family doctor --. This model was already applied in the areas of Ourense and Santiago and now extends to all of Galicia. Another measure that aims to download the doctor's schedule is to activate the possibility that primary care pharmacists will renew -- which does not prescribe -- chronic treatments for a maximum of six months when the appointment in their family doctor exceeds two days of delay. And for this, it was issued a few days ago the instruction corresponding to the sanitary areas for its application. At the same time, we also started -- and so the president advanced it in the debate of the state of Autonomy -- the amendment of the Primary Care Management Decree, which we intend to adapt the regulation to the current reality and needs by regulating the territorial organization, the direction and coordination of centres and coordination with hospitals, among other issues. So last Friday ended the deadline. In addition, we continue with the implementation of CRM-100 -- already operating in fifteen health centers -- which has shown its results in the centers in which it is working and which is solving 100 percent of the calls lost on the same day in a two-hour range. This system will continue to be implemented in all community health centres. On the other hand, the intervention also progressed the work being done with the multidisciplinary team to implement the Integral Management System of the Demand in Team, the known as XIDE, a multidisciplinary system in which patients transfer information and determine which is the most appropriate professional to treat it. Intermediate appointments are therefore deleted and agendas are released. Even so, of course, those patients who don't want to give this information will be sent -- as it couldn't be otherwise -- directly to the family doctor. So this is a multidisciplinary approach to having full attention, a question that you asked us on several occasions. And what do you guys do in the meantime? So they do this, Mrs. Prado, they do this: a campaign based on falsities towards patients, Mrs. Prado. He doesn't give them a robot, he's never gonna give them a robot, and you know that. To perfectly qualified patients, the PSX -- of whom, by the way, in recent months, we have strengthened more than there were -- in 193 people. [[Applause]] You use primary care to feed your wallet, or at least try. We will continue to move forward in implementing measures towards this multidisciplinary integral care that we want to define the primary care of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u52	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Prado's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u53	Look at one thing, Counselor, I don't ask you to come here to respond to the criticisms of the BNG. What we're asking you is that you come here to put solutions, to give alternatives, to solve the problems. That's what you have to come here, not responding to BNG's criticism. [[Applause]] And, look, if the problem were the alarmism generated by the BNG, there wouldn't be any cause, would there? Because out there we'd like to have that ability to move all those people. And if the question is to increase the portfolio of votes, you have it very easy: solve the problems and that portfolio of votes will go to the People's Party. There's absolutely no problem. What I'm asking you to do is stop demagogy and start doing what you have to do, which is to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks and primary care. And, look, you're again talking about the eighth meeting, the eighth plan, and when will the meetings, the plans, the expectations, start those agreed measures at those meetings? Because they've already told you thousands of times -- we told you here, the professionals told you -- that the diagnosis is done, that everybody knows what the problems are and that the alternatives put them on the table as well. What you're doing is you're constantly hearing about these measures, because you don't want to solve the problems, because solving the problems means you don't keep fattening private health. The roadmap of the People's Party is to fatten private health. And I sincerely, Counselor, I have to congratulate you, I have to congratulate you because since you were appointed Counsellor, you have very clear what you have to do to damage public health -- essentially primary care -- and make private health grow more and more every day. Because the data is there, the data of people who hire private insurance because they are not treated in public, the data of clinics that increase or the consultation data. That's not done by chance, it's done by the tireless work of true professionals on that line, like you and the whole People's Party. They are true professionals in deteriorating public health to fatten private health. [[Applause]] And, look, what primary care needs is a firm and real support, not a "we're going to do," but a firm and real support. He needs investments. And you, far from increasing your investments, what they do is cut them off. And he needs to look after staff, care for staff, and increase primary care resolution capacity. That primary care management decree doesn't mean to increase your ability to resolve, but it means that the problems you created are going to put them on top of professionals and that they self-management themselves to solve them. And the professionals are not responsible, the responsible are you, the responsible are you! [[Applause]] The primary need for primary care is to ensure patient access, to ensure accessibility to presence care. And you're not doing anything like that at all, Counselor. And primary care can no longer increase the inequalities that exist between the Greeks and the Greeks, but on the contrary, it has to help solve them. And for that, it needs resources, resources and professionals. I ask you to abandon the policy of turning backs to the Greeks and to the Greeks they've been practicing, the policy of turning backs to the professionals. Listen to those thousands of voices that demand a solution. Listen to those thousands of voices that demand a solution. There are alternatives that we've already presented to them here, which have been told to them in that Primary Care Council and that you don't want to hear, how to introduce new professionals into primary care. Why don't they? Why don't they? Why don't they introduce clinical psychologists, occupational therapists, social workers or more clinical pharmacists? Because what doesn't need primary care is that the same professionals give him a ride and share the job, because it's not possible to share the job anymore. What they need is more professional to be able to do the job in condition. And you're all they're doing is taking it from each other and putting it from each other. They incorporate more professional. It's possible. They have us on the recruitment lists, they're unemployed. Why don't they? Why don't they just once and for all make a decent contract so they don't keep going? Because today, in 2021, after three years of putting in place this plan for a new primary care model, they still march. They're not doing their plan right. So why don't you make a decent contract? Why don't they make a plan of retreat and return from those who are marching? Why don't you put those things in place, Counselor? Why don't you put those measures that everyone is telling you are the ones that need to be put in place? Those are the questions that we would like you to come here to answer, because these are not the questions that BNG asks, but the questions that are asked by the Greeks and the Greeks and the professionals who are making them. And you said you're not violating any rights of professionals. Why don't you meet them and ask them if they think they're violating their rights, if they think they're forcing them to work above what's agreed upon, above what the wallets are? Why don't you ask them if they think they're working in dignity? He meets with them and they explain it to him. In short, Counselor, primary care -- I insist -- is doing trenches, but you won't be able to continue doing so indefinitely. The collapse situation is around the corner, and in front of it, the People's Party has to stop throwing balloons out, leave that policy of not listening to anyone and move on to a proactive policy of implementing short-term measures that are possible in the medium and, of course, in the long term -- that is training and other --. And they stop blaming others, because I remember -- and with this ending, Counsellor -- that Galicia has exclusive health skills. Exercise them, exercise those powers and stop blaming others, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation by Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u55	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, really, the more I listen to her, the more it is harder for me to distinguish her true interest and if, in the end, her interest is to desist so much from primary care so that really what she says we really do you do. Look, let's talk about private diversion. In concerts, Galicia right now -- Sergas -- is diverting and collaborating with the private sector beneath what was previously done. We're under 5%, Mrs. Prado. If you read an ad yourself the other day to order the contract in Vigo and you've already left saying that we duplicated the private diversion! It's not true, Mrs. Prado. It's the same contest we had so far, with the same amount, exactly the same. But, of course, this is your policy. You're talking about the budget. Well, this is the third time I tell you, and I'm glad to tell you again. Look, the budgets, from 2009 to 2022, change to 99.7 million more euros in 2022 for human resources, 99.7 million more for human resources! There's 6.2 million more for current goods and services, and 123 million less in pharmaceutical recipe. [[Applause]] We're back to the usual, you were spending more on primary care in the recipe, Mrs. Prado. Shall we continue with that mantra? In staff, see, in 2008, there were 2,402 primary care doctors, in 2021 there are 2,515 -- 113 other doctors, Mrs. Prado --. You can say what you want, but the data, unfortunately for you, are very stubborn, terrible. You -- I insist -- you talk about the budget this year, and I explained it to you the other day and I explain it again: in chapter I we grew by 6% in primary care, Mrs. Prado. You can say no, we've lost 2 million euros. In what? In infrastructure? So, on the one hand, they say that cement is the only thing that makes PP in primary care, and in a year when we finish the construction cycle and we announce in parallel the construction of new centers, what we criticize is that we don't build, that we don't make cement this time. No, Mrs. Prado, there's no cement this time. Next year and next. For what? To have decent health centers. We reformed more than 90 centers in this period -- reformed or new facts -- because we believe that professionals and patients have the right to be in a health center of the right characteristics and not outside the health center, Mrs. Prado -- a question that this government has never promoted or ever pushed --. The carp put in the health centers are not the competence of the Galician board, they are the municipalities, which, in addition to putting out the carp so the patients are out, they also put carp for that so-called Public Health Defense Platform, which we don't know who it represents, but now we see more and more clearly what it represents than the Block and the PSOE, because in the initiatives you're copying, they're picking up on your motions, what this platform claims -- what I'll then talk about if I have an opportunity --. Well, those tents that you put in, to collect signatures in front of the health centers and that encourage people to stay out of the health center, Junta never suggested them. Since June 2020, the Union has encouraged health centres to be open and safe, and has promoted the use of presence care. It's more, the leader of that platform -- with which you now symbioticize -- which turns out that you just retired a few months ago, had 100 percent of your presence consultation. But who they want to fool! Junta never put any criteria for not receiving patients in health centers; they were professionals. And that professional, for example, did make a hundred percent presence. So whose fault is it, Mrs. Prado? Taking advantage of face-to-face, I'll tell you that this same week's data indicates that right now, thanks to the quality schedules we've set in motion, 60% of primary care consultations are in face-to-face format. And, well, you're talking about the situation, about alarmism. I'll give you the data this week, too. Look, 70% -- 70%!-- of the appointments that are asked for primary care today are danced in less than two days and 90% are danced in less than four days. What are we talking about, Mrs. Prado? I'm not going to deny that there's any coupon whose doctor has just retired and that we don't have any specialists. You say the skills are ours. Look, I'm not going to ask the German MIR for now, I'm not going to ask for it, but the competition to train doctors is not ours, it's unique. The only thing we ask the Ministry to do is to train them or let us train more specialists. I just said that Galicia introduced this week to 64 more accredited squares, and we asked the Ministry to take them out this year's call. That's our job, but the Ministry's job is to accept that. You're talking about categories. Of course we incorporate categories. It's just -- I'm telling you again -- it's 331 more squares in the Primary Care Plan, 331, Mrs. Prado! Tell me about clinical psychologists, of course; talk about social workers, of course. In those categories we agree. You're talking about PSX. I've also just told you that there's almost 200 PSX more working right now. And we put a tool for PSXs to make sense of how to manage uses and reduce queries from other professionals, and you leave with the image of the robot. But what are we playing at? Who despises whom, Mrs. Prado? [[Applause]] You talk about rights. Look, there's this category that we incorporate with the tools we have and we don't hide, we've been discussing it a week and a half ago, and I used to say it in the budget show. We discussed it with the sectoral bureau, how come? And we're working to adjust that category. That category we believe is really interesting; in fact, in this Parliament the experts who have come already talked about incorporating ordinary attention and extraordinary attention into these categories, and we are doing so. And we're doing it respecting the conditions they're already in. We are not talking about the fact that no ordinary doctor has to move on to that category or the CAP category; that, by the way, the working conditions of the CAP doctors are clearly collected in the union agreements and no health area is being asked to do even an hour longer than they are envisaged. You know we're talking about a range of 150 to 180 hours. We're on that bank, so don't come here to talk about slavery, to force people... No, you read the hours that are agreed upon with the unions, just that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u57	I'm done. I think we're in a difficult time for primary care, I never denied it. We are in a complicated situation mainly because of the lack of experts we are commenting on. We're looking for measures to alleviate that lack of specialists that we said, and those measures are going through reordinating work, multidisciplinary work. Of course, we think you have to go around, using the documents that were approved in 2019 and the ones that the opposition, in theory, agreed. Measures such as demand management, which you now criticize, are in that document, Mrs Prado, where, when you talk about boosting the administrative areas of health centres, you literally set an example: "This way, in the development of this professional category" -- that of the PSX -- "the management of the care flow would be better focused, in coordination with the rest of the team." This is what we're doing, Mrs. Prado, not creating robots. So all we're saying to BNG is to buy what he preaches. Think of Galicia at large, join in developing a reform of primary care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u59	...which must be a great deal of country agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u61	...and they stop thinking about Galicia as a child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u62	Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Question by G. P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Paloma Castro Rey and four other Members, on the policy of the Galician Union on the treatment and management of urban solid waste
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u63	To formulate the interpellation, Mrs. Castro Rey has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Today we bring this initiative here because we share a concern between the people of the region of Barbados about the future of the plant in Lousam and, therefore, the future work of many families. So, I'm going to talk to you today about the future of Lousam's municipal solid waste treatment plant. I would like to begin my intervention by recalling the origin of this plant, recalling how a community of municipalities began in 2003 this project, which intended to comply with the so-called rule of the three Rs -- reduce, reuse and recycling -- and how it created, therefore, a proximity plant and educated and sensitized its neighbours to carry out and meet this objective. I remember the origin because I am convinced that it has a lot to do with the despicableness that the People's Party Government has been driving to this environmental complex for years. Because at the time of the constitution of this community these three promoters -- Lousam, Brión and Port do Son -- they had socialist mayors. And since Mr. Feijóo came to Junta in 2009, he systematically discards all projects and initiatives that have a different political colour or come from governments of another political color, regardless of the viability or success of these projects. And I could put a lot of examples in different areas of the different councils. But in spite of these years of poor press by the People's Party Government, the reality is that this plant has grown, and currently covers nine municipalities; some of them are part of the Commonwealth and others are from outside, but have derived the management of their waste. The wastes of a total of nearly 90,000 people will be managed in this treatment plant today; a plant that, in addition, gives work to 170 families in a region where industrial development -- as in many other Galicians -- shines by their absence; therefore, it is one of the economic motors of this area, and it is a plant, in addition, that has very high recycling rates above the average of Galicia. If we extract data from before the pandemic -- and we're going to take data from before the pandemic to be objective and not take into account the circumstances that may alter them, such as the closure of the hostel or the confinement, which occurred in some months or certain municipalities -- this data says that the Sogama plant recovers for recycling 14.9 kilograms per inhabitant per year; instead, the Barba plant recovers for recycling 51.1 kilograms per inhabitant per year, exceeding -- I insist -- with an increase to half a kilogram. So it's much closer to meeting Pemar's goals. But also the difference in waste treatment is remarkable, especially in paper and paperboard segments, with 62 %, compared to 19 % in Galicia; light packaging, with 52 % compared to 22 % in Galicia; and also in organic matter, where it increases even more, with 35 % compared to 5 % in Sogama. Counsellor, with this data you seem to have forgotten the package of legislative measures coming from the 2018 Eurocamera Framework Directive; a package containing measures and objectives, in addition, which are legally binding to all these Member States and which are translated into the recycling of 70% of ferrous metals and glass waste in 2025, or 65% of packaging and 75% of paper and paperboard. And for municipal waste recycling must be at least 55 % by 2025. So there's four years left by 2025, and we're too far away from meeting these targets after years of dislocation in waste management policy. But now the time rushes and the attitude you're having reminds me so much that at school you were studying at the last hour an exam and then you were saying, "Mom, it's a lot and it doesn't give me time." Otherwise, we wouldn't explain these public demonstrations in the press that you say as "the Galician Board warns Fegamp that the State Basic Waste Law project sets materially unattainable criteria." Or last June, when you say, "Environment Counsellor ensures that, if she is obliged to implement the separate collection of organic matter in municipalities of more than 5,000 inhabitants, she will advance to the end of 2021, the municipalities will not have to carry these wastes." Then I will answer him just as my mother did with me: "Daughter, you've started before! You leave everything to the end and this is what happens." [[Applause]] We have an urban waste plan in Galicia of the years 2016-2022 whose vigil ends the last year, and we have not met the first of the objectives. What, then, is the reality of the Welsh Strategy on Waste? Because here we see there's no way. We have a model, like that of Barbanza -- like what we came here today to value -- that has a sensitized neighborhood and that has data that improves, besides, remarkably, half-Greek. But you're not able to support it, but you're torpedoing it from outside with confusing messages to citizenship about its viability, but you're also torpedoing it from within -- as we know -- and, if not, I'm also going to remind you here today. The presidency of this plant management community corresponds one year to each municipality on a random basis. Well, over the past few years -- and coincidenting in the presidency with the mayors of the People's Party -- the dislocation of management was total. And we don't think this was a unilateral decision by the mayor or deputy mayor, but because they responded to orders from above. Why? Because everything that's not inside the Sogama model isn't worth it to you, even if the data refers to it. They sell a bet on nearby plants. In this urban waste plan, you spoke and valued these proximity plants, and now they are praising this with the construction of three new bioresidue plants, such as Cervo, Verín and Vilanova de Arousa. But, then, why don't you bet on the Lousam plant, for example, that it's proven to work? Why does the People's Party not require its mayors from the council members born of this Commonwealth who are firmly betting on the Lousam plant? What kind of political leaders let a waste management plant rub in a region with a high unemployment rate, what is the region of Barbanza? Counsellor, will you collaborate in the future on this plant? [[Applause]] What other interests is there to keep it from happening? Together you have to collaborate with this plant, you have to ensure that beyond 2023 this plant continues to work to keep these jobs -- as I said -- in the region of Barbanza. Regardless of whether you bet on this model of management, separation and separate recycling at the beginning and subsequent separation, we also have an important opportunity with the arrival of many European funds to even be able to transform this model of management, collaborate with Joine and thus be able to ensure maintenance, as I said -- I insist -- of these jobs. And for now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u66	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Castro, I'm really worried about your intervention. If you come to politics, you have to accept everything, but if you're interested in Galicia a little bit, if you're interested in Barba, and if you're interested in your employees, that's regrettable. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Castro, we have been applying the Urban Waste Management Plan for a decade; it is the roadmap that we have marked: in 2010, it was approved; in 2011, it was implemented; and in 2016 it was reformulated due to different European directives. And this plan is approved until 2022. This is a plan in which our goal is to be near the municipalities, which are the ones that have the power in urban waste. So we had to make a series of investments, which in these ten years has reached 90 million euros. We act in every way to get management to be more modern and efficient, and we act throughout Galicia and for all the municipalities. We don't talk about plants, colors, because it's illogical, we have to talk about citizens. But we don't want to stay there and, therefore, we design the Waste and Contaminated Land Law -- by the way, we're still waiting for that law that you announced one day in Parliament, a few months ago, and that I'm not able to get the Central Government out of the way. Our law focused on two fundamental issues -- and it still focuses on reducing plastics and also on food waste. We don't stay there, and then we're going further, and we just approved the Bioresidue Strategy and municipal waste for the year 2022-2023, with a budget injection of 60 million euros; 60 million euros in two years. We analyze the council for the council, we see the weaknesses, and according to that, we act again -- I tell you -- without seeing that political color that you see depending on whether on a plant they rule one or the other, whether there are more municipalities of a color or another or who presides over it. Even blames us if any mayor says he doesn't want the presidency. Unbelievable! And now, in fact, we're taking another step, and that step is the construction of three new bioresidue plants and the construction and adaptation to the requirements, with the best available techniques, of a total of 13 transfer plants. The result of this whole strategy is this: no municipality can be more than 50 kilometers away from a transfer plant or bioresidue plant. Objective: less CO2 emissions and economic savings. The forecast is that this infrastructure is in operation at the end of 2022. We don't go late, we anticipate; we have law and the central government doesn't even have the law. And do you know what the Central Government is not supposed to have? So suppose the Kingdom of Spain is looking at Europe to be punished. And you know what happens to those sanctions? Have them split up. And we do not agree and we will not allow Galicia to be punished because the central government does not have a law and therefore has no strategy to achieve the purposes that mark Europe. [[Applause]] Junta is on the side of the Town Councils, Mrs. Castro, on the side of the citizens, supporting and giving ease to everyone!; something that contrasts with the actions of the central government, which wants to set deadlines, but deadlines without a law. And you know what those deadlines are? That the municipalities of more than 5,000 inhabitants must have installed the fifth container in January 2022. You want to tell me how they're gonna do it? Have you ever talked to the municipalities where they rule to see if they're able to do it or not? I think you should give them a little call or take a walk through Galicia and see the city halls, which are them, uh!, it's not Galicia's board. The Galician Union helps, but those who have to reform their contracts to make the collection separate are the municipalities, not the Galician Union. The Galician Union is putting the bio-residue plants in place and it's coming to 2023. And the municipalities, according to the law of Galicia, are obliged to implement this brown container at the end of the year 2023. But, well, if you keep insisting that it has to be in January 2022, as the draft law says, and then, above all, we lose ourselves because the president of the Fegamp says that he has to applaud the central government because it takes six months to implement it... I think you should talk a little more, especially if you want to transfer information to yours. In fact, Galicia has the Sogama model; the Sogama model has it when you rule, and when we rule ourselves, but with a difference, that this model is now a more modern management and a more effective management, endorsed by Europe, endorsed by all audits, but also by all those, including those of its political sign, who come to see Sogama to implement it in PSOE-led Deputies and received by what will now lead the PSOE, who is the president of the Crown Deputy. Having said that, we want to be a sustainable system for Galicia, economically sustainable and environmentally sustainable as well. So in the year 2022 we're going to do is guarantee the lowest cannon in all of Spain. That canon lower is a 5% discount, but if they do up top and they transfer that tax discount to citizens, we lower 10 percent, and we're not going up the IPC, which results in 19 percent less for municipal buildings and also for citizens. And that is very much against what the Central Government wants, which wants a new tax, and that tax is up to 40 euros/tonne for the waste that goes to a dump. Then we should go in, because you know what our concern is, and it's a concern that we move -- so your mayors would say -- through a letter to the President of the Commonwealth of Barbanza, to all the municipalities that are part of that community, because Barbanza leads 66.1% of waste to the dump. Do you mean to tell me who's gonna pay for all this if they don't restructure that plant, if they don't choose the manpower to do it, if they don't propose it by the company? Do you agree that the citizens of Barbados are tripled or quadripled the receipt of the waste, and that it is economically viable to sustain the citizens? If you want to be with the employees of Barbanza, what you had to do is support initiatives, and we are working to support initiatives, but always with strict compliance with the law. So I'm staying with the Galician model. It's a unique model, although all models are compatible, of course, with compliance with the law. And that model, Galician one, is what the citizens think, thinks of the municipalities as well, and lowers the cannon so they can help in a moment of economic recovery. I don't buy you the model of the Central Government, which is a model of more taxes for all the Greeks and more obstacles for the Town Councils, but more obstacles also for plants as is the case with Barba. That, by the way, in that letter we also sent him the interpretation by the Central Government as to how the collection of waste should be done. So we march until 2023, until December 2023, so that the Town Councils deploy the brown container. And together with the brown container, we have to implant the textile container and the oil container used. I ask them, in addition, to recapitulate and follow the example of the Galician Union. If you want to be a politician, do it, but don't come to Parliament to... You don't come to Parliament to deceive. [[Murmurs.]] And the gentlemen of the BNG also ask from this gallery not to deceive, because it's all in the record, and we should fall in shame. Then do another kind of policy, but here they are at least serious. [[Applause]] We keep moving, we do it with facts, and those facts are that Galicia was present at the COP and during the weekend he signed the Under2 coalition. With that signature we assume some challenges, which are to implement in Galicia all the actions and measures, but not only as a compromise, but also as a law, which is the Law of Climate. And so we want to be next to the regions, these 260 governments that want to lead that bet by halting climate change. That's how we're going to continue to work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to keep below 2% the average temperature increase, and even beyond 1.5%. Since Galicia we have also assumed challenges that are still complicated, but among all of us we are going to achieve, which are the reduction of greenhouse gases at least 55% in the year 2030 and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u68	...adapt and promote to continue in the year 2050 with that zero emission of gases and CO2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u69	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mrs. Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u70	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, also for letting me come here to make politics. [[Applause]] Look, I hope you also had a good trip and a good stay at the COP26 summit. The representative of Ecologists in Action says that his intervention was epic. I don't know if you've also talked about the Climate Emergency Declaration, which was approved in the 2019 autonomous debate, and we're going back to approval yesterday, because it's not yet implemented. I don't know if you told this at the COP summit too. Counsellor, you said you missed it... you spoke first of Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan, making a timeline. It says that in 2010 it was approved and renewed and adapted to the state legislation of Pemar, as we already know, in 2016. But he failed to say one thing, he failed to say that in the year 2021 neither the first objective set out in that Waste Management Plan was met. And I'm going to give you an example. In this Waste Plan in 2020, they said that the amount for reuse and recycling had to be in Galicia of 245,261 tonnes/year, that is, 30 %, and in 2019 it was 137,950 tonnes/year. Therefore, 15 %, half, to one year of fulfillment of the target. [[Applause]] You say, Counselor, that you are next to the Town Councils. Are you next to the counties of Barbanza? Because attitude doesn't really reflect it. Look, I'm going to tell you and I'm going to remind you, because I don't know if you realize -- because I don't know if you or your CEO, but if you left your advice -- a question that I think is very important, denounced, in addition to this House, about the attitude you have and that you've always had the Galician Board of Disgusting this plant. And it's a very serious episode of information manipulation that took place a few months ago, specifically on March 10 this year, where you were transferring to the media a completely twisted news, with a clear intention of undermining this plant's public image. See, the European Union approved specific aid under a programme called InvestEU, which aims to encourage and subsidize investment in seed projects, sustainable infrastructures and R & D projects, discarding entities such as plants or entities that have disposed of waste as well, as we all know, Sogama, but with the exception of these investments being directed at conditioning plants and improving waste recycling. This is the real news. Now I'm going to tell you the news that came out machiavelly in the Greek press and that you used to lie. The news says: "The European Union will not finance the TMB plants and defend the Sogama model as a model for the future." This is what came out in the press. The former was reality. You don't think for a moment in the prejudice that these false statements could involve in a neighborhood like that of Barba and for many families where your plant is your livelihood. It was disgusting and bad. [[Applause]] In the PSdeG we always bet from the start on this plant and we're going to put into place not only these jobs that have this neighborhood, which are produced in this area thanks to this plant, but also the greater sustainability that involves the recycling of proximity. As I told you, the presidency of this Commonwealth is rotating. The mayors and mayors of the municipalities who are part of her are presiding over her for a period of one year, and last August 31st became part of her mayor Carnota, the socialist mayor. Well, agreeing with this mandate, the representatives of the Socialist Party, the PSdEG and the council members of this Barbanza Commonwealth held a meeting in Carnota and maintained the agreement to mark a roadmap on the issues they were most concerned about, especially the maintenance of this plant after 2023. I ask you, Counsellor, not to miss the opportunity we have with the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience that will be transferred and that it has a line oriented towards the management of municipal waste online with the priorities that mark the European Commission to achieve these objectives of what we were talking about. You collaborate with the restructuring. If you're creating new plants, why don't you take advantage of a plant that already exists? To meet these European objectives, you said that Sogama is not enough, and that is why the need to increase the capacity of organic valorization through the implementation of these plants that are being constructed. But why not with the conversion of mechanical biological debuggers, those TMB plants, like that of Lousam, so that they can receive and value the collected biowaste selectively? Why not transform and help transform these plants so that they can continue to keep their jobs in a neighborhood like Barbanza? That's what we're proposing today, that they make this technological adaptation possible, and so we will ban this plant, for example, in oversized years. We call on the Government of the Union to cooperate in the permanence of this plant and co-finance the adaptation or its conversion, introducing new organic fraction biological debuggers selectively collected and helping this plant to exit, it can go ahead. This will ensure that these jobs remain. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Castro Rey. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the inquiry, the environmental, territorial and housing advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u72	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Castro, you asked me what I said in Glasgow. The reality, because those who audit us are Europe and therefore the numbers sing. And depending on that, there are the results. And you know what I told you in Europe? That in 2019 Galicia decreased by 23.8% CO2 emissions. And you know what I told Europe? [[Mr. Aranguena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived]] That in Spain was increased by 8 %. Are you all right, Mr. Aranguena? Do you have any data problems, and you want to override them at some point? That's what I repeated and what I said in Europe. On the other hand, at no time, Mrs. Castro, we attack the Barbanza model, all we say is that all models have to meet, and this is one more. We're worried, and we're worried because, imagine, your government in Madrid wants to put a tonne tax that goes to a dump, and that tax is 40 euros, and the barbanza plant is 66% of the dump, Mrs. Castro. You want to tell me how they're going to take that cost? Something needs to be done about it, and that's what we moved to the president of the Commonwealth by letter; something I didn't say publicly, but what I answer here. I mean, we don't do politics with the technical part, because we try to solve problems in the best way. And let's make the general address available so that it may be, so that they can make a plan, so they can say what the future is going to be and what the timing is going to be. That's the reality and not the other. So what we want is a plan to adapt to the requirements for waste management in the Community, and to seek quality employment for its workers. That's what we've been doing since Galicia. He was transferred, as I said, to the President of the Commonwealth, who did not respond, and we transferred him back to the rest of the mayors to get knowledge of what was happening, with the Ministry's interpretative note. We don't play anything here, you play your government in Madrid, the minister of the Ecological Transition, and that's what we moved you to. So models are all alternative always and when they meet, and that compliment is that you have to implant the brown container and you have to do the separation from the beginning. And, besides, today, I tell all Members to join the brown container campaign: "The brown, the container that returns life." Actually, it returns life to waste, but returning life to waste is also supposed to manage those wastes, and it touches the municipalities. That's where we're going to be. So I once refresh their memory because they don't like it to give them data, nor do they tell them it's what's approved, but we're for that, to give data, to help the municipalities and also citizenship. And the data are: we approved the Waste Management Plan in 2010; we pushed in 2019 the Strategy for Climate Change and Energy, which includes the integrated Regional Energy and Climate Plan 2019-2023. It is 170 measures, and 1,250 million euros. We gave green light to the strategy of circular economy; we promoted and coordinated the accession of the Greek municipalities to the Pact of Mayors for Climate and Energy, which is a total of 270. I also want to congratulate Vilamarin, who was the first, in addition, who just signed the pact with a new commitment, which is climate neutrality in the year 2050. He's the first from Galicia and the seventh from all over Spain. We approved the Waste and Contaminated Lands Act in 2021. We're waiting for all of you to agree in Madrid to get out of the state basic law, which we lack right now. We launched the Galician Strategy of Bioresidues and Municipal Wastes 2022-2023, with 60 million euros, and we celebrated the 20th anniversary of SIGRE. I also think we have to congratulate ourselves because, along with Navarre, we are leaders in recycling drugs, packaging drugs, and we should all promote this. We did it in Ourense, who was a pioneer, and therefore we had to keep celebrating. We're pushing the Gallega Climate Alliance. Yesterday we met with the Cluster of Environmental Solutions and Circular Economy, because we all have to go hand in hand. In 2022 we will begin to develop the Galician Climate Law, and only three days ago we signed that Under2 2021 Memorandum of Understanding with which Galicia assumes the challenge of implementing in a coordinated manner the measures and actions necessary to limit global warming. We do it with 260 governments worldwide, which accounts for 1.7 billion people, and 50% of the world's economy. We are the sixth community, along with Andalusia, the Basque Country, Catalonia, Navarra and Madrid, which are synatarias of this memorandum. We did it because we believe Galicia must be there, we must continue to join initiatives to improve the future of the Greeks and the Greeks, and we do so without looking at the comarcas, without looking at the acronyms or looking at the colors; we do so thinking about Galicia and all the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u75	We moved on to the next interpellation. Question by Juan Carlos Rivera and two other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece on poverty rates in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u76	Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u77	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. This is an initiative -- indeed, an interpellation to the Government -- that has to do with inequality, inequality of wage income, inequality that implies that in this country there are more worrying rates of severe poverty, inequality of income between men and women working in this country. In short, it is an initiative that also has to do with the Government's economic policy of correcting the inequalities that exist in this country and trying to achieve greater economic-social and territorial cohesion, which is, of course, what we want with this kind of initiative. In a moment, in addition, where the budgets of the Union are being processed. Indeed, important, expansive budgets, with a capacity of up to EUR 11,627 million; budgets that, far from the propaganda that are the highest in history, incorporate extraordinary funds in an exceptional way, since they come closer to the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, 507 million, the State, 617 million, and even 800 million European funds that were not executed over the period 2014-2020 and that are again incorporated into this budget. Today Mr. Núñez Feijóo said that Galicia -- in its reply, in one of the opposition's spokesmen's questions -- was 14 points above the state average in the execution of Feder funds. I have to tell you that in the Feder funds, as far as I+D+i is concerned, Galicia is in Spain's queue. It is not true, therefore, that global data Mr. Feijóo gave here today in connection with the execution of the Feder funds. In any case, EUR 800 million that is again incorporated into the budget; hence, an expansive budget with a capacity for expenditure. And in front of that, budgeting has to give answers to people's priorities, the whole of citizenship, and try to correct the eves that has Greek citizenship at this time, that go along the way of increasing inequality, as the reports I'm going to report to them, and that are going on the way that there are two Galicians in this country, one that progresses, although it is slow, and a Galicia that is left behind and, therefore, in which the principle of economic and social cohesion must logically be the objective of this government. Recent economic studies, after the pandemic, after 18 months of pandemic, reflect at least three major cracks in Galicia. The first crack reveals a worsening of income distribution as a result of prolonged wage losses. This has to do with the pandemic. But already in a pre-pandamy era, in 2019, if I came to this loss, this worsening income distribution. According to Gini's index, which is an index that measures, among other issues, wage inequality, in Galicia has increased 1.5 points; that is, it's one of Spain's communities where the inequality and the worsening incomes are the most increasing. The first derivative of this question, logically, has to do with the loss of the lower wages of spending capacity and the second derivative has to do with the increase of the difference between the rich and the poor, as Oxfam expresses in a report you probably know. The second gap directly affects the educational system, since in Galicia, far from guaranteeing equal opportunities, what they underline are new rates of inequality, and the budgets of the 2022 board reflect this situation. We lose 800 teachers in relation to the year 2020, which can be explained, because in 2020, with the pandemic, the education system has been strengthened, but we compare, if we compare with the year 2009, we see that in Galicia there are 1,439 teachers less than in the course 2000. In 2009 there were 1,439 teachers more than in the course 2019-2020. And the third gap has to do with the tax policies of the Union. Today, in the Galician Parliament, Mr Feijóo talked about taxation, and I say that the taxation of the board and the benefits, the tax subsidies that he introduces to the Galician board in budgets, far from sinking into equity, into fiscal progression, what they do is privilege the high incomes, because the bonuses that are introduced into the IRPF, far from what Mr Núñez Feijóo said today, who said they benefited, that each Galician would benefit from an income savings, in the IRPF, of 40 euros, are a false fact, since that bonus will only affect the highest liquidable bases; that is, those liquidable bases at 60,000 euros. Because the fiscal bonus envisaged in the budgets for a liquidable base of up to 20,000 euros -- which is most of the income, unfortunately, that is in this country -- does not exceed 12 euros in this case. So, finally, the fiscal policy of the People's Party, logically, benefits the highest incomes, not only in the incomes but in the estate tax, where they introduce bonuses in the quota despite the fact that there is already an exempt limit of EUR 700,000 in that tax or in the inheritance tax, which has an exempt limit of a million euros and which logically benefits the highest assets. In connection with all of this, we find that in Galicia there is a situation reflected in the state of poverty report which is really worrying. We knew a few days ago -- at least it was published in October 2021 -- a report reflecting that in Galicia there are 694,367 Greeks and Greeks -- 25% of the population -- who are at risk of poverty, 38,389 more than in 2019 and 2.7 points more than in 2018. It also reflects that report that poverty feminizes, that is, it increases poverty more impact on women in this country than on men. But it's not a question that has to do with the effects of the pandemic, but that this has already had prepandemic effects or that has been happening for years before the pandemic. But if we talk about severe poverty, we see that in Galicia there are 254,000 people affected, 9.4% of the population; i.e., Greeks and Greeks who do not enter more than 535 euros per person, and, in the case of a marriage with two children, approximately 1,120 euros. So they're a worrying rate because they affect 9.4% of the population. And if we talk about relative poverty, for the first time since 2009 Galicia has surpassed the state average, and we have 2.1 points more relative poverty rate, 22.1% of the population in Greece than in 2019; that is, 598,000 Greeks who don't earn more than 802 euros. So, these are worrying indicators that require a political reaction, with economic policies, cohesion policies, housing policies... because one of the key indicators of social exclusion has to do with precisely the difficulty of accessing the housing that many citizens of this country have, or with the fact that 61,400 homes in Galicia are absolutely insecure or are at risk of insecurity, regardless of the difficulty that young people and girls in this country have in accessing a housing even in rent. As you perfectly know -- revealing data -- in the 15- to 35-year-old line, 60 percent still lives with their parents at home. So there's an emancipation difficulty that has to do with the inability to get a job and the inability to have a wage income that allows them to cope with housing expenses; ultimately, a worrying situation. And to this situation it must be added that Galicia is an aged country and therefore with many pensioners, where pensions are the second lowest in Spain and, therefore, where 52.8% of pensions received in Galicia are below the poverty line; that is, 404,000 Greeks over 65 years of age are below the poverty line in the perception of their pensions; poverty that is much higher and severe to 22.1% of the population.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u79	And, indeed, half pensions are very low. The pensions in Galicia are below the average of Spain, but Galicia is also asymmetric, and, if we take the pensions of the Crown, we see that they have nothing to do with the pensions of Ourense, that these are yes the lowest in Spain by far, with an average of 695 euros; 623 euros for women and 695 for men.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u80	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u81	Well, with this data, Counselor, we asked you here a series of questions that have to do with the government's answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u82	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u83	...in the face of a situation that seems quite worrying to us. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, very good morning to all. The first reaction of human beings to unknown events that even endanger their own integrity is to protect themselves and their loved ones. It is an involuntary and innate reaction that is discovered in extreme situations, such as the recent life of the coward-19. In this context, our first task as an administration was to bring all the tools that were within our reach to enable such protection, at any cost. No one at any time doubted that this was the priority and that it was what we had to do. Luckily, in recent months, the vaccine has allowed us to change our perspective and re-place the economy among our main concerns. It is undeniable the social effect that he left behind this pandemic. It's enough to walk through a city, through a village or through a Greek people to know the history of hundreds of people who had to close their businesses and also make enormous efforts to reopen. The Greek Government did not look to the other side and sought to meet their needs through the best possible allies, such as the social entities of Galicia. And we did it, in addition, immediately, because we approved the highest order of aid to social entities in the history of Galicia, with 17.8 million euros. We have also encouraged a pioneering, novice and national reference measure, such as the Basic Card; a help that, by the way, is still in force and that allows us to meet the basic needs of food, hygiene and pharmacy of thousands of families and people throughout Galicia. A modern aid that doesn't stigmatize the user, but it's going to buy a card, like any one of us, and with which we've taken care of more than 56,000 Greeks and Greeks. And we've also invested in this measure and in this basic card 31.5 million euros. Their role was fundamental to meeting the urgent needs of people who from day to day saw their income reduced to half. And, as we know, it's still necessary, and that's why we included 6 million euros in these 2022 budgets for their maintenance. Ladies and gentlemen, these first paintbrushes of the pandemic are already beginning to fall behind, fortunately. Galicia is making it that there are fewer homes that are going through it, but I'm not saying it just myself, but there's also data that supports it. Statistical data for the year 2020 show that the Greek families have been better able to withstand the crisis than those of the rest of Spain. The Arope rate, which measures the risk of poverty and social exclusion, places Galicia below the state average, 25.7 % compared to 26.4 % at the national level. And the rate of severe material deficiency, which is the most commonly identified by poverty, is almost two points below the state average; 5.2 % compared to 7% of the state average. The source of this data is in a work fabric that has managed to resist better than elsewhere in Spain. And so it reveals the active population survey corresponding to the third trimester of the year 2021. Galicia is the fifth community with a lower unemployment rate of 10.23 %. We also know that we can't afford to be satisfied and that there's still a lot to go on, but it's so important to be aware of this evidence as to where we want to go on moving forward. The challenge that the social services of Galicia faced is mainly a reformulation and its ordination. It will agree with me, Mr Rivera, that the approval of the minimum vital income was submitted one before and one after the social benefits at the national level. The autonomous communities that we are not lucky to be able to manage the minimum vital income we have had and we have to adapt and reorient our own aid. Perhaps you, Mr. Rivera, may at some point tell me why the Central Government allows the Basque Country and Navarre to manage the minimum vital income, but Galicia tells us day after day and day that does not. So the challenge we are facing this year 2022 is to process Galicia's new Social Inclusion Act so that we can create a renewed portfolio of more modern social services, but also more similar to the needs of our neighbours. Among the measures we intend to include in this new law is the reduction in the time of paperwork in the processing of any kind of aid intended to protect the Galician families, the compatibility in certain cases of income from work with the aid and also the reformulation of Galician social inclusion income. The risk must be able to reach where the minimum vital income is not enough, to supplement its eels and to seek that everyone in need of a first-needed benefit can obtain it with maximum agility; which is not happening with the minimum vital income. The people and families in Galicia who need help are waiting for months, months and months for this vital minimum income to be granted. The Greek Government maintains in its budgets for the year 2022 an investment of EUR 44 million for the risk. These funds, which, as you well know, are expandable all that is needed, will allow you to meet 100 percent of the people who need help and have not transited towards the minimum vital income. With all this, the German Government will always maintain its commitment to the people who need it most. And we also maintained this commitment in 2022 with the highest budgets of Galician social history. Yes, Mr Rivera, these are the highest budgets in Galicia's social history: 927.4 million euros; 14.2% more than in this year 2021, of which 118.6 million euros will be destined to work for social inclusion. This investment in social inclusion is also intended to continue to strengthen those programs that have demonstrated their effectiveness and value, giving help to people who needed it most. As far as housing is concerned, we will be able to strengthen the programme for all families who need to stay or find housing -- we will do it in the seven major cities of Galicia -- and we will also be able to implement the Social Pact for Housing 2021-205, developed in consensus with the sector and with consumers, which will be the road map of the Union of Galicia for the coming years. The German Government will continue to show itself always to those who need help, and we will do it whatever their situation is so they will never sit alone. Making Galicia a more supportive place is a mission of society as a whole, but of course, it is also a mission of all administrations. The revenue to reach that dream society must be accompanied by an alliance between social entities and different administrations: the state administration, the autonomy and the location. The German Government will continue to strengthen its support for municipal social services. These budgets of the year 2022 rise by 24.3% to EUR 19 million through the agreed Plan and the order of aid for inclusion in the Greek municipalities. We also continue to strengthen our support for Galician social institutions with those funds managed through the IRPF order, which increases by 65 %, up to the EUR 6.5 million destined for social inclusion. I trust that before the end of the year, we have jointly approved the renewal of the Single Social Agenda 2021-2024, a document that brings together the challenges and social objectives for the coming years and will allow us, in addition, to join forces between the social entities, the Union and the Greek councils. The challenges we have ahead also have great dimensions, but we can be sure that, just as we have managed to cope with one of the worst situations in our history, we will be able to continue to approach solutions and we will be able to continue to bring about improvements for all those people and families who need our help. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u86	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u87	Thank you, President. I was asking you, Counselor, to the Government a number of questions. Basically, the first consisted of an assessment of the worsening distribution of employment income in Galicia. Logically, you're responsible for social policy and, well, you're talking about yours. I understand that he finally gave answers to some area of the initiative, but not to all. I'm talking about politics, I'm talking about the economic policy of the Union, whether the economic policy of the Union is geared towards the country's social, economic and territorial cohesion, or whether we're just giving priority to a certain sector of the population, those with the highest incomes. Are we favouring a certain population sector that lives in a particular territory or are we favouring certain citizens in relation to other citizens of Galicia? And this is what the initiative is about. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because the problem you're hiding in Galicia is not just from the vault; your data are worrying already in the early days. There is a worsening of earnings in Galicia by 2019 and there is a worsening of the social situation in Galicia. And you give me data, comparisons with the state average, but I've already told you that the rate of relative poverty for the first time in history since 2009 is at least above the state average. I'm telling you about that Galicia where there are 26 districts, which at last according to data that draws and publishes the IGE -- and they're published -- in a 15-20-year-old expectation, they're going to lose 30% of the population. I'm talking to you about this Galician government where the Government of Galicia has to make economic policy, industrial policy and cohesion policy. And those are the questions I ask through this initiative. Logically, the lack and loss of work income leads many people to a situation of charity and poverty, which is what you respond to. But it is worrying, because origin is in economic policy; in this case, in the absence of economic policy. You've been in government for twelve years -- twelve years -- and I gave you a data, in relation to the education system, which is fundamental for correcting evas in relation to Galicia's social and territorial cohesion and which has to do with the disappearance or elimination of 1,439 teachers in Galicia since 2009 or with the lack of investment in R+D+i, which puts Galicia in a situation, in that area, far from the state average, with 0.97% of GDP-related investment, or by comparison, 1.25% of the state average. I'm telling you that because there are the solutions: investment in R & D, investment in education policy, investment in economic policy, social and territorial cohesion and reaching all points of the territory. But you finally give the answer from the perspective of social policy, and I respect that kind of question. Maybe what we're not addressing here is that what's going on in this country is that, in addition to the aging population and in addition to the fact that there's an expulsion of many young people -- a very important human capital to provide the economy of this country, which has to get out of Galicia to find an opportunity of life -- what I want to move and transfer to the Government is the need to change economic policy, the need to use the vast amount of European funds, 507 million. It is that last year the Galician Union received extra approaches, only from the state of over 1,100 million euros. And it's true that he was in a pandemic situation -- it's true -- but the Galician Union, which just received 828 million -- he just received them in the last frame -- he has to be able to reverse the situation that lives in certain parts of this country. And, of course, we must promote a new housing policy, a housing policy that allows the collectives -- not only the collectives at risk of exclusion, but the whole of citizenship -- to the new people, to access a housing, because they can't access a housing. I gave him one important fact, which is that at a age range of 15 to 37, 67% of the population still lives in their parents' homes, without the possibility of emancipation. So these are very worrying data that have to do with the lack of opportunities or with the low income capacity that citizens have in this country to access so much as a rent, because renting acts as a true salary aspirator. And it also has to do with strengthening public services. It is not possible -- and it must also be guaranteed by law -- that any public service and anywhere in this country where citizens live can be closed under any concept without a report, in this case, of the Economic and Social Council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u89	...or without it being established in a law. We are talking about this and about the need for a new economic policy to be promoted in Galicia. And at the rate of inequality, at the rate of worsening and distance between the richest and the poorest, if not so, if it doesn't act on the fiscal level, no longer favouring high incomes and forcing them to tax in accordance with the principle of fiscal equity and progressiveness, because we will be focusing, precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u91	...in any case, we'll be stressing what's happening right now in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u93	Of course, you have an opportunity, which is the budget, which is indeed the highest in history and incorporates important funds from the state and the European institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u95	I say that kind of budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u96	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u97	...and that exceptionality must be taken advantage of for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u99	...but of the whole of all the Galicians, they live where they live.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u100	Thank you. That's what you understand. It's clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u101	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u102	For the closure of the inquiry, the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rivera, as I said in my first speech, the challenge we are facing is a challenge that has great dimensions and that is not solved with magic solutions. It depends on an important collaboration and teamwork that allows us to reach all those corners of Galicia where a person is found, where a vulnerable family is found. That is why we believe in the importance that there is always close collaboration between the different administrations and between the social fabric of Galicia. It is true that social policy is fundamental to economic prosperity, but we also believe that conciliation is the key, it is the key to the ever-increasing integration of people into the labour market. For that reason, so that Galician parents and mothers can reconcile -- moreover, they are measures that promote territorial balance -- the Greek Government continues to open up more and more children's homes and more homes in our rural Galician country. In fact, we're going to finish this same year 2021 with 90 nesting houses open and running so that Galician parents and mothers can take their little ones there while they can be working. [[Applause]] And we're going to finish this same year 2021 with 90 houses of the largest open and functioning in our rural area. Our elders also need resources, they need services next to their own home. Because when we ask them where they want to go through that new stage of their life, most of our biggest ones tell us that they want to continue living in their homes or near their homes. With which, there are many autonomous communities at the national level that are already calling Galicia's door to put these mini-centres into operation as well, but that are also 100 percent free for our seniors. Both the little houses and the bigger houses enable us to reconcile, allow parents and mothers to make their family life compatible and their working life compatible, and also allow us to settle the rural population by both families and our older ones, who continue to live in their homes and, of course, create jobs. There are 180 people who are running these nested houses and these big houses, which allow them to work and at the same time continue living in their village or village or village. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever there is a person who is suffering from it, the Government of Greece will seek to make available to it all the help that is within our reach so that these families can get out of the way and also regain control of their lives. And we're going to do it and continue to do it with direct help that enables them to cope with their basic expenses. I was referring in my first intervention to that reformulation or reorganization of all the social benefits of Galicia and also to the maintenance of that Basic Card, so that they can immediately cover in less than 24 hours that these families can meet these basic food and pharmaceutical needs. We will also continue to do so through housing access programs and employment access programs, which are fundamental and, of course, always supporting them and offering them a second chance, which we all deserve each and every one of us to have. The budgets of the Galician Union for this coming year 2022 aim to offer and give them answers to all those needs that the families of Galician families have, but above all allow us to reach where the families need us. Our duty now is to coordinate with the other agents involved and also to decide very clearly on the way to which we want to move forward. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u104	Thank you, Counselor. Now we move on to item 6 on the agenda, from questions to questions to the Government. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u105	We moved on to the cumulative debate of two questions. Both go to the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao. Question by Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol and nine other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the situation in which the sale process of the San Cibrao aluminium factory is found Question by Daniel Castro García of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the nullity of the employment regulation file at the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u106	He begins by asking the question Mr. Balseiro Orol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President. Thousands of workers and workers in the Navy have been shining -- my region -- for more than two years bearing such uncertainty about their future work and the future of their families in view of the certain possibility of closing the only primary aluminium factory that remains active in Spain. I'm talking about the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao, which all agree to define as a strategic activity for our country. [[grunts]] It is true that the Supreme recently confirmed the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia for which the employment regulation file was annulled after assessing bad faith; a victory that is the result of the joint action of the representatives of the workers and the labour authority of the Galician Union, which has promoted several requirements in this regard. Still, we are far from the end of the battle because, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no possible solution until there is a real and effective involvement by Alcoa and the Government of Spain, until we get a stable and competitive electric price and until we offer potential buyers an environment of legal certainty essential for them to formalize their offers. Ladies and gentlemen, how will Alcoa workers in the political class not lose faith when they observe that we are able to unanimously approve proposals and solutions, but at the time of truth, these do not apply? Ladies and gentlemen, it's enough for all these people to have their hair. It goes from intention to fact. How can you make us believe that the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, partners in many municipalities in the Navy, in the province of Lugo and Galicia, in the Deputy of Lugo and even in the investment, cannot force the Government of Sánchez to fulfill what he promised and that yesterday we even approved in this chamber? How can the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block vote in favour of Alcoa's temporary public intervention and the Government of Sánchez make deaf ears? And I ask: Who does Sepi depend on if not on Moncloa? Do we really have to believe that they can't force the Government of Spain to comply with the statute? Do you really want to make us believe that the forces of the Bipartite can't force us to put all the tools possible so that there is also a competitive electric price for the industry in Spain? Ladies and gentlemen of the Galego Nationalist Block and lords of the Socialist Party, but above all, lords of the Galego Nationalist Block, which was worth the investment pact that you signed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u108	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u109	...what was left on paper wet days later?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u110	Mr. Balsairo, time's up. You know the mechanics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u112	The question is now raised by Daniel Castro García of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u113	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. As you know, the Supreme Court declared null and void the second ERE of Alcoa and said it was illegal. Something that absolutely knew the entire Navy. This made it clear what was the decision on the judicial route, but it remains the most important road, which is the political road, as we have been saying since the beginning of the problem. But this political path needs the involvement of all administrations, and when I say administrations I want to pretend in the plural of this noun. And before anything is said, I want to make it clear here that we know perfectly well that the state government has betrayed the Navy, has betrayed all the agreements reached democratically in all parliaments, and that, of course, SEPI has failed in particular. [[Applause]] I'm saying this so that then -- they'll do the same -- in the replica they don't put it on top of it. So here we have to talk about responsibilities, and even if it seems that there's no politics coming here, because we're in the Galician Parliament, it's the chance, the bad that weighs us, that you're the government. So maybe they have something to say about what happens to our country's industry. Because if it doesn't happen again as usual, they come back with their fear of painting nothing about the decisions that happen to our industry, in their fear that Galicia is something small, small, small. And this is because you're very comfortable and very comfortable with this frame. Problems never have anything to do with you, the Union can never do anything and other excuses that always exempt them from all responsibilities. I mean, you're the government, but they don't rule, and what's worse: they don't want to do it. So this leads me to ask you two questions: The first is if they're willing and willing to leave their comfort zone, that comfort zone to use all the problems that our industry, our country's industry, is constantly facing the state government, even though it has a great deal of guilt. So far they've been showing this behavior and we want to ask you if you're willing to stop doing it. First of all, I'd like to suggest to you that you don't ask questions to the opposition, even if I have little hope, because for now -- as we've told you so many times now -- we're not the government yet, and these are questions to the government. And this second question is, what is the roadmap that the Galician Union is going to take to save the Alcoa factory jobs, because -- as I said -- I'm the Greek Government and something will have to say? We hope that today is an exception and that it will answer the questions that the Galician Nationalist Block is asking you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u114	Thank you, Mr. Castro García. Reply by Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Advisor, Fr Francisco José Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Balsairo, Mr. Castro, thank you very much for bringing to this parliament the situation in which Alcoa San Cibrao is currently sold and, above all, the concern and sensitivity we have with the situation of the workers of Alcoa and their families and, of course, the impact this situation has on the entire region of the Navy. Mr. Castro, before you get into the matter, you move that the Government of the Socialist Party and its partners -- among which you are -- betrayed the workers, betrayed the Navy, and you should also take into account that you are betraying the Galician Nationalist Block, and should take note because it seems that you are the necessary accomplices in this situation. [[Applause]] In any case, we are in this parliament to talk about how we can help solve this situation for the Alcoa workers and thus guarantee the maintenance of jobs, because that's our goal. Indeed, the Supreme Court's decision to confirm the nullity of the employment regulation file Alcoa wanted to apply, in principle, is good news for the Navy district, too for Galicia, but, above all, for the whole of the workers, who together with the Council of Galicia are working from the very first moment to maintain the activity of the only primary aluminium plant that remains in Spain, as Mr. Balsairo has moved. Mr. Castro, we're government and we're making decisions. We've made decisions over the past few months, and all the decisions that this government has made are going in the same direction, which is protecting and safeguarding Alcoa San Cibrao's jobs. For this reason, we have declared the electrointensive industry as an essential and strategic sector in Galicia, which -- as you know -- allows giving priority to all modernization or transformation projects by reducing the deadlines to half. And for this reason we also collaborate with the corporate committee and with the unions in the various judicial measures taken to safeguard the thousands of jobs. It is true that at present we would also need to accompany these modernization or fund transformation projects in order to promote investment. As you know, Mr. Castro, all the industrial policy funds linked to the Next Generation funds are in the hands of the Government of Spain, and there is not a single transfer to the autonomous communities so that we can help the different sectors, the electro-intensive sector as well. I have no doubt that if we had those funds, the Galician Union would also be taking action in that direction. But you know that the Galician Union also participated in the request for precautionary measures so that the tanks would not be stopped. And in the ERE challenge we seem to have already forgotten the work that the labor authority has carried out by transferring numerous warnings to Alcoa in relation to the file and also collaborating in their presentation to the courts, because the Galician Council -- as you know -- cannot challenge according to labour regulations. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Union has at all times been proactive in making decisions, identifying where the solutions can be precisely to defend Alcoa's jobs. And now, Mr. Castro, Mr. Balsairo, the Galego Nationalist Block, the Socialist Party of Galicia, it is up to the Central Government to move and sit down with the company to achieve the solution that we have long claimed by the workers and the German Government. We all absolutely agree that there will be no possible solution until there is an effective real implication on the part of the Government and of Alcoa; all, except, unfortunately, the Galician Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, who once again prefer to act as government spokespersons trying to divert attention. Mr. Castro, don't deceive people and, above all, don't try to cheat -- because they can't -- the Alcoa workers. Galicia is experiencing an energy crisis that is jeopardizing industry and endangering Alcoa's jobs as well. And all that's happening in this country with energy is also the responsibility of the Galician Nationalist Block, because you -- I remind you -- are Pedro Sánchez's government partners and share the same energy intransaction policy. So the solution is very clear, and there is a consensus: the only way to save the situation on the Alcoa plant is through a competitive electric price, which allows the buyer to maintain industrial activity. There's the solution. We are demanding that all mechanisms be activated so that the sale of Alcoa can be dealt with safely, including temporary intervention through SEPI. That's our commitment, that's what we're asking the Galician Council and the workers. The only thing we ask the Galician Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block is that they stop doing politics and get side by side with the workers and the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u116	Thank you, Vice President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think it's about demagogic politics, because politics......to understand that. [[Murmurs.]] Clear policy we make, man!, of course. Well, Mr. Balsairo's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Vice President for your answer. We sailors are tired of listening to the forces of opposition that make the Galician Union an industrial plan for the Navy to shine. But most sailors argue that the best industrial plan is not to close Alcoa, to keep the jobs that are currently in Alcoa. I don't know why the forces of the opposition, the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block are being defeated on this subject. But I am very glad that in this case Mr. Castro, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block, had said that the Government of Spain betrayed the workers of Alcoa. And so are you. Maybe more of you. [[Applause]] And I make a proposal: why are you unable to condition the political pacts that you have in Galicia to keep the Alcoa jobs? Why don't they? I'll make you that proposal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because you betrayed them and deceived them and lied to them. [[Applause]] You see, the agreement of the Bloc and the Socialist Party: Bonuses in the AP-9 and competences in Alcoa, the pact by which nationalists will support the investment of Sanchez. Ah! but look at the pact you signed, the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block, on January 20th. You know what this pact says? You should check it out. In relation to the status of undertakings, take measures to reduce the energy bill. In fact, you did it well, you reduced it to twice as much as a year ago. It says more: The electro-intensive industries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u118	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Time's up. No, you know. You're a veteran of this and you know how it is. Thank you. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, but you know what it's like. No, which then opens a dangerous debate here. No, leave, leave... leave the matter there. [[Laughter]] That's it, you get it, man! [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u119	Thank you, President. Mr. Conde, I'm about to ask you for a bread bar because this is perhaps a bakery, not the Galician Parliament, where politics are made. [[Applause]] I understand that from the popular band, fear continues to grow, but from the Galician Nationalist Block we have to clarify a little thing: we want to rule this country, but the Spanish state does not want to rule it. They don't put us in the same way as if we were in the Spanish state, which they're already saying in their words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u120	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u121	Mr. Balsairo, the best industrial plan for the Navy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u122	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u123	...he doesn't close Alcoa. All right. The best industrial plan for the Navy is that in recent years the Government of Feijóo has not closed more than tens of companies, who have assumed more than a thousand jobs only in industrial matters. [[Applause]] And the solution to Alcoa is intervention. And in that intervention you could also take part in Galician Union. I could take part in the Galician Union if I thought this country was a great country, which deserves to be defended. It could take part in the board of directors of the same factory. Why? Because in future cases, which we do not want to be in the same situation, the situation from which we parted the context would not be the same. But what happens when we propose these measures, when we propose these measures through budgets? What the People's Party does is vote against. Because we, the Galician Nationalist Block, have been at the beginning of the problem with workers and workers, and we've been waiting for many months to -- as you always say -- if they were on our side on the sign. Now it seems that the banner no longer burns so much, that the banner is much more beautiful and that they can use it to confront the Government of the State. We are pleased that they are also now on our side, even if they are on the banner defending the workers and workers of Alcoa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u124	Thank you, Mr. Castro. In order for there to be no doubt, I understood what the honourable Member said. I didn't have any doubt, please, and I think that's the case. When he said "banda" he referred to the wing, not the gang of bandits. [[Murmurs.]] Please, I understand that. And if the honourable Member doesn't support me, is that it? You have to have a little... please! I understand and that's why I left the thing as it is. Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, it is. Everything has been clarified. Mr Vice-President, close this question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Balsairo, Mr. Castro, indeed, the Council of Galicia is acting with great clarity, with great force, demanding the activation of all those mechanisms already committed by the Government of Spain so that you can face the sale of Alcoa with certainty. And we, of course, defend that if it is necessary to intervene temporarily through SEPI. That's what the workers are asking for, that's what the Galician Union is asking for, and we're going to be next to it. It seems that the only ones who are and are trying to divert attention from the Greek administration, surprisingly in this case, are you, Mr. Castro, most busy defending your partners. I remind you that I understand that today the Galician Nationalist Block must be ashamed of that pact you have signed with the Socialist Party. But you signed it, the People's Party didn't sign it, it was signed by the Galician Nationalist Block. So you're supporting this government's energy policy. Unfortunately, an energy policy that is raising Galicia and Spain in an industrial crisis, motivated by these political decisions from the energy point of view that is leading us to that energy transition. Mr. Castro, you're the "no" party. You're the "no" party to thermal power stations even though we haven't guaranteed electricity supply. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you're the "no" party to renewable energy, knowing there won't be a better electric charge if we don't move forward in the set-up of more installations, seriously and rigorously. It is difficult to find more inconsistencies, except political interests, by the Galician Nationalist Block in the field of energy policy. [[Applause]] And I'm sorry, Mr. Castro, that you're talking about industrial policy and the impact this energy policy has on our country. You are responsible for the situation that the workers of Ence are going through; you are responsible for the closure of Elnosa; you are responsible for the closure of the thermal power plant of the Bridges and Meirama. And I remind you that more than 15 000 jobs are in danger right now because, among other details, you are supporting that energy policy. I think we have to speak clearly now, because it's all right: stop using the workers in this country politically. [[Applause]] And if we talk about Alcoa, Mr Castro, we must insist on the need for that real and effective involvement by Alcoa and the Government to face the sale of the plant. It is urgent that these mechanisms be activated, that measures be taken to guarantee that competitive electric price. So what we're hoping for is that there's an immediate reaction from the government. It is the only possible solution, i.e. to guarantee a competitive electric price so that there is a buyer who has the ability to assume the purchase of the plant. This is the reality. Any other motivation, all we're trying to do is divert attention and -- I insist -- use industrial policy to make politics. It's the worst favor you can do to the workers in our country. If they want to continue to defend Galicia using the workers and, unfortunately, being responsible for closing companies, it will be their responsibility. Of course, he'll be in the hemerotheque, because the hemerotheque, Mr. Castro, puts each one in his place. We will continue to work, we will continue to take action, and we will ask the Government of Spain not only to guarantee a competitive electric price, but also to ask it to intervene if the plant is needed to ensure that there is a buyer who assumes that operation. And we ask you, Mr. Castro, too -- and we would expect your support -- that these Next Generation industrial policy funds that the Government has taken with 100 percent of the industrial policy funds -- and you talk to me about industrial plans in the Navy, you talk to me about investment aid in electrointensive companies. Mr Castro, 100 percent of the European next generation industrial policy funds are in the Ministry of Industry, and the autonomous communities receive zero euros. And of the EUR 12,000 million in industrial policy we will receive EUR zero. A little coherence, a little respect for the workers and a little defence of Galician interests before a government that is industrially dismantling Galicia by intentional energy policy decisions that have no kind of justification. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u126	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the German Government of the existence of 15,000 unmet jobs despite the number of unemployed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u127	Question by Maria del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u128	Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. Although so many months of September and October reflected an increase of unemployed, with evolution contrary to the rest of the state -- specifically, in September 1,790 unemployed and stopped more than 5,400 jobs destroyed; in October, 991 unemployed more --, as said Counsellor, we currently have 154.045 unemployed in Galicia, of which 90,378 are women. Despite this situation, Galicia has long suffered from a shortage of labor. There are thousands of job vacancies in different sectors. The construction sector, for example, is one of the most affected between the gap between supply and demand. And the employer himself in the Coruña sector, Apeco, estimates between 4,500 and 8,000 new workers who need to incorporate Galicia to fill vacancies left by retirements and, in addition, for posts to be generated for the next year with projects funded by European recovery funds. The patronal bridgework of construction speaks of a lot of companies with works and projects stopped by the lack of professionals, such as engrossers, plumbers, etc., estimating up to fifteen thousand posts to cover. The Association of Associated Metal and Technological Industries of Galicia, Asime, recognizes that the Greek labour market needs workers and workers in various categories, from engineers to soldiers. And they place eight hundred posts that they need to fill immediately and two thousand more that they need to join staff to secure next year's deliveries. The furniture sector is not adrift to this serious problem. Nor does the service sector save itself from this disconnection between supply and demand, although the high prevalence of precariousness in this sector may affect this situation. The shipbuilding sector may be affected by a lack of labour, estimating that two thousand employees are needed until 2023. We have already asked about the need for strengthening the public service in Galicia, about the need for a short and long-term diagnosis. Of course, they didn't do anything in that way. How reality that exists is a serious dysfunction in Galicia between supply and demand, we ask: what valuation does the Government do in view of the situation that, despite the number of unemployed who have our community, are missing about fifteen thousand jobs, according to business associations? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u130	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Indeed, we are finding ourselves with great demand on the part of the business fabric, and essentially in certain professions that we could call "traditional", in which it is not being covered. Probably also due to lack of vocations, because even the younger population is unfamiliar with the employability index that there may be in these job opportunities and probably also because of the lack of training options that are attractive. We must also bear in mind that the crisis caused by the cowardly crisis has greatly accelerated the digital transition; it has raised a great deal of need for training that has to have our workforce and our labour market. This points out precisely that workers need new skills that fit those offers that are currently being given the labour market, not only in Galicia but throughout the country. So what do we consider, what does the Employment Council consider to be doing? We have to optimize the procedures for matching supply and demand. That's how we present it in the budgets this year, because we've been working all year on projects in this line. And yesterday in particular, we presented the project that I think is most important in this sense, which is the Employment Capacity Agenda. It is a social pact for training where we intend precisely to reformulate training for employment in the autonomous community, involving social agents, economic agents, who -- as you well said -- are those who really know the needs of workers and workers who have and, of course, the abilities and qualifications that these workers have to have. In this way we are going to clean up all the training skills currently available in the autonomous community, which are over four thousand, and we are going to draw up a training catalogue that meets these real needs of the productive sectors, to ensure adequate training for workers. We have to say that we are from the first regions in Europe together with Flanders to carry out this agenda, which is only a reproduction, a execution of the European agenda, and that we are going to work on nine work tables and strategic axes: blue economy, green economy, silver economy, construction, automotive and aeronautical, logistics, tourism, hospitality and commerce, digital economy and a specific table for all of the most vulnerable collectives. This will be completed with other projects, such as the study of emerging technologies and the virtual training campus for employment, with an investment for the year 2022 of 82 million euros in training, and we understand that it is one of the most suitable ways to bring about convergence of that offer, that demand between entrepreneurs and workers and thus improve that coverage of jobs you are talking about, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u131	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u132	Thank you, President. Well, I wonder what they've been doing since 2009 on employment to date, because in 2009 Touriño left an budget of 155 million own funds employment policies, and in 2020 you're leaving half 82 million. This explains the employment policies they're doing. [[Applause]] And it's true, yesterday they introduced the Welsh Agenda of abilities, they presented it yesterday, but it turns out that the 2018 Adeco report -- which I'm sure you know -- says: lack of brutal professionals in Galicia. They also observe an important imbalance in the autonomous community between the education system and the business reality. The aging of the population of Galicia by 2018 was two points above the state average, and this defines our labour market. From that moment on, just announcements and nothing else. We have a serious problem of adapting vocational training to business reality, a lack of active employment policies. We have to wait for the announcement you made this year as well that they would bid for a study of emerging technologies to formulate a formative catalogue of professional profiles, nothing more and nothing less than a bid of EUR 400,000, when they leave jobs without technicians, they reduce chapter I of these professionals, they do not create structural squares to really strengthen a public service that would have to have this function and that diagnosis. The German Government has no diagnosis of the labour market and the needs of the year 2021. This is very serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u133	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. For the Government's reply, the Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u134	Thank you very much. As for the budget, I was talking about the training budget. The board's budget knows you very well; it's 380 million euros. We only grew by 50 % in training. I don't have the data here, but I'm convinced that budgeting alone in gender violence grew by 24%. So I don't understand how you're saying we have a lower budget. It's the biggest budget in employment policies in the whole history of Galicia's board of directors. So I don't understand how we stop for a moment talking about figures that reveal that they're not like that for themselves. What have we been doing since 2009? Well, now you have a four-point unemployment rate and I peak below the national average in the EPA. That's what we've been doing since 2009. You're talking about reducing chapter I. No, it is the State that reduces chapter I. The State has ended with the financing of the work guidance for all autonomous communities without notice and no new programming. And what did the Autonomous Community of Galicia do? Proving funds in chapter IV is even higher than we had in chapter I for employment guidance. Therefore, it is not the Galician Union that reduces funds in chapter I of the employment workshops, but in this case it is the Ministry of Labour. And you know him well. You know this is because you know the budgets and you know that you're expected in chapter IV to be higher than you're going to decrease in chapter I. And what have we been doing all this year? So work on this agenda so we can start with that analysis of each of the training specialties we have in the autonomous community, in an organized manner with the sectors and with a computer database that allows us to speed up the system and provide for a dynamic system that can continuously be reformulated into the reality that we have in the autonomous community. At present in this plan for training, which is EUR 82 million, but which is only for training, because I repeat that the budget of the council is EUR 380 million, we are already adapting the training to the results that we have seen from this study of what you are talking about, which I think is very useful, but which, however, does not give you any value. We have targeted training actions for construction, mechanical training, hospitality... In particular, in mechanical manufacturing, nearly six million euros in training in this regard; building and civil work, more than two million euros; digitalization training actions within the service sector; training for the transport sector. For the construction sector we are working with three and a half million euros for training through the Construction Labour Foundation. Finally, the answer we are giving is to try to improve that cross between supply and demand through the development of skills for employment, with training adapted to the labour market, useful training and which, ultimately, can match the supply of Greek entrepreneurs with the demand for work that we have in the autonomous community. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u135	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the collaboration of the group of opticians and optometrists in visual health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u136	To put the question, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u137	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Today we have worse visual attention in Sergas and in the health system in Galicia two years ago. It's not an assessment, it's an objective question that you're probably also sharing, and you share your group in the last Health Committee where we could discuss this. That's why it's obvious. For a few years now -- we're going to explain it now -- we had the ability to have, in addition to the Ophthalmology Service that the doctors in Sergas play, the visual capacity assessment that opticians and optometrists do, and that we now have serious doubts in the air or, in fact, we don't have the right way. This situation is from 2007. In 2007, the Government has been interested in improving the care of visual health, and has signed an agreement with the College of Optics. This convention provided for the assessment of visual capabilities to the population and had some advantages. First, Sergas benefited from having a capacity to provide an additional service; optics and optometries had a capacity to spread their work; they also had a certain commercial advantage, because they could expand their customer spectrum. I also had certain commitments, since Sergas was committed to reassessing that agreement, improving it with the passage of time, and even as a medium- and long-term goal of incorporating opticians and optometrists into Sergas. And, for their part, the opticians and optometrists at first did the service absolutely free. And this is important to point out. An optics and optometries installation made an absolutely free service to anyone who derived from a doctor or even on his own initiative had come in to make an assessment, which takes his time, takes his effort and takes above all his knowledge, even sometimes the use of some instruments. So in this sense, we had that very advanced service. The change of government in 2009 broke this situation. For all these years, until last year, there has never been any desire to renew that agreement, to improve it or even to advance and to make some contribution so that at least the opticians and optometrists would not lose money. It's not about winning anymore, it's about not losing money. By 2020, the opticians and optometrists, after often claiming the improvement of this agreement, said that it's enough for a counselor who doesn't listen, and a service that they're not obliged to give, didn't give it. What did the Council do? Try to divide, divide to try to win, and today we have a problem. Counselor, today in Galicia, we don't have the ability to give all the service. This map, which you probably know, teaches in red -- it's one of the only opportunities the purple is bad, it's usually good, but here it's bad -- all those places in Galicia where there's no such service. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows the House a map of Galicia in color.]] Because today Sergas can't solve it. What do you see that you have to do and how will you solve that today we have the worst visual health care two years ago?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u139	Good morning again. Mr. Torrado, to answer this question could give you the full answer given by the Director General for Health Care in Commission 5th, I think to a question from the Galician Nationalist Block, and I think it answers perfectly to the question you are asking today. This isn't about the value that we give to the figure of the opticians, that is everything, of course; they're professional experts in their specialty, and if Sergas didn't trust their worth, he wouldn't have signed either the first or the second agreement, even if on the other side they were the opticians. It's about offering the citizen a service that is guaranteed in this case. The convention that corresponded to the eye-eye campaign was a fruit of collaboration between the College of Optics and Sergas, and it was signed -- as you well say -- by both sides in 2008, and it was active until 2020; it was renewed every year. By the way, with an amount of around twelve thousand euros a year. Over the years that it has been in force, it has been used by around 50,000 people, primarily served to identify the effects of refraction. Sergas offered improvements to the renewal of the previous convention in 2020, but the College of Optics rejected them, despite the fact that the opinion among the school members was not unanimous. So we started the jobs to sign a new agreement, in this case with the optics; a model to which you can adhere any establishment that you consider it to be so. That being with the institutions itself makes a greater sense, since the owners of the optics -- as you well know -- they don't have to count on the titration and therefore not be part of the College of Optics. We believe that this agreement solves the needs that had been covered by the previous agreement, offering a free review, allowing the data from this review to be included in the patient's electronic clinical history, in Ianus, which allows them to be monitored by family doctors or Ophthalmology services. We believe that until now there have been no incidences and the attention offered is exactly the same as in the previous campaign. You claim an economic compensation, which we believe remains resolved with your own participation in the agreement. You yourself say that the optics themselves are interested in receiving these patients because many of them later make the glasses in their own optics. Well, that's the perspective, that these patients are potential customers. And that's precisely why there was no economic compensation in the course of the previous convention, not even in 2007 and 2008. Mr. Torrado, the reality is not that you want us to paint that we undervalue professionals, nothing further than what I said, but that we try to give quality attention to the citizens, and the reality is this. Sergas carries out more than five hundred thousand Ophthalmology consultations over the year, makes more than thirty-five thousand surgical interventions, and has expanded resources in primary care, for example, with twenty-six retinographs -- not only do we put printers in primary care, Mr. Torrado -- and we are satisfied with the result that the implementation of the convention is being implemented, with more than one hundred and seventy optics now attached; the largest number in the Coruña and Pontevedra, but we hope that they will also be added to other provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u140	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u141	Thank you, President. Counselor, if you could give me the same answer, it is that you in the face of the problem we have don't think of moving a peak. It's certainly consistent, for Sergas is probably the most exploiting ETT in Galicia and here they found a son, because there's still a collective who's doing a job for him and they don't want to pay him. I mean, you've already found something wonderful: people who work, people who form, people who are capable, who have their institutions, but we don't pay them. Let's change for example: if you had a fruit shop, would you spend -- for example -- fourteen years giving the apples and bananas every day to see if those customers ever come in for oranges, what if they charge them? No, no, no, no. So that's what Sergas wants the optics to do: to give their work, to give their time, to involve their instrumental, to buy the fungi, to have all the capacity, to be trained, to be constantly trained, to improve, to go to training courses to expand the training they have, but not to pay them. This is your proposal. We think it's unfair. You assume that it's okay, and you assume that if there's a problem, it's the optics' fault. That's also a discrepancy, because if there's a problem, it's Sergas' responsibility, which is responsible for visual health, not optics. You give the feeling that you say: as you have a business, you have to listen to us. And it's not true. The problem is that today you have a responsibility, and it's that more than half of Galician municipalities today are inhabited by people who don't have an optics in their county so they can make a visual assessment that two years ago they could do. You broke that agreement. And the question is, what are you going to do to restore it? Because if they're not going to do anything, we're still having that problem. And this has one way: to improve the agreement -- as, by the way, if you do with other collectives -- give at least so that you don't miss them and view them in the long term or in the medium term that we will incorporate the optical service and optometrime into Sergas. That's the way, you have that and you don't have the other one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado, your time is up. [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, the Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u143	Mr. Torrado, this very morning I had -- as you know -- an Interpellation of the Galician Nationalist Block on Primary Care, in which we were talking about the burden of primary physicians and the need we have to unburocrate and lift doctors' schedules. And you tell me you'd prefer an agreement where primary doctors were the ones who had to fly the wheel for optic appointments. With this agreement we have now removed all those slots from the doctor's schedules, which can be devoted to another type of care, for example, hours reserved for puppetry or for attention to chronicity. And you insist on the need to return to the previous one. Surprising, no doubt! Fifty-two thousand consultations derived from primary in 2018, forty-six thousand in 2019; about fifty thousand slots more on the medical agendas of all of Galicia. In addition, in this agreement, patients decide to turn to freely. If you approach one who is part of the "Beware with Your Eyes" campaign, your review data can be reviewed by Sergas professionals. This agreement is a voluntary collaboration between the Health Council and the adopted optical arrangements. I repeat: one hundred seventy-five optics already attached. The current model is then, with obvious improvements, of the subscription in 2008 and that allows any patient to have a derivation through a rapid route to the Ophthalmology Service of his hospital if he had identified some kind of pathology that requires the presence of the ophthalmologist in this case. The fundamental advantage of this agreement is for the Greek citizenship, along with the value position of the figure, of course, of the opticians and optometrists and of the optical establishments to which this agreement is given. Of course -- I insist -- you yourself said it in the question, most optics do that review for free. What we're doing now is that this derivation doesn't need to consult the primary care physician, which -- as I say -- is fifty thousand more primary care physicians available. I think that, -- I insist -- respecting the work and the figure of the opticians and optometrists, is an advantage in this. Do you wonder what we're going to do? Then keep insisting on the optics to adhere to this agreement, which we think is better than the previous one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u144	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Noelia Otero Lago and three other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the launching of the dementia unit of the Vigo Health Area at the Hospital do Mexoeiro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u145	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u146	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, already in the hour, Counselor. The figures, according to the source we're looking at, what we're going to go to, know they vary a lot about people who are arrested suffering from Alzheimer's disease or some other dementia. So if we pick up, for example, the data from the National Institute of Statistics -- which is the data collected by the Spanish Association of Neurology -- they tell us about 600,000 people. But the worst thing is to warn you that this number, that this figure will inevitably double over the next few years. If we take data from the Spanish Confederation of Alzheimer, they double those data figures at the state level. We are talking in this case about 1,200,000 cases of people affected by dementia-alzheimer; 1,200,000 families, therefore -- as you know -- because it is a disease that affects very directly also in the homes of those who suffer it. We think, in view of this situation, of the numbers -- the figures we have here too in Galicia, according to the Galician Federation, talk about around 70,000 people affected -- that the Union is not meeting its objectives, with its commitments, also acquired in a public way. And we bring this question up at a time because we can have some flexibility and understanding around delays, but you know that confinement and this pandemic has affected these people very directly. On the one hand, this confinement is directly caused by the situation in the homes; on the other hand, by the closure of day centers; on the other hand, in this case, at the level of diagnosis, by the non-presentity of health centers. You've held several meetings with Afaga. They, with all patience, with all affection -- even dare I say -- they come accepting all that change of dates. But we think that with what they've suffered -- as we said -- with these processes of functional cognitive deterioration that they're warning, they've had to get many affected people to skip the intermediate resources and they have to have asked for a residence in recent times. We think it's time to give a definitive date, to report to us how these adaptation jobs are in that unit of dementia committed to the Mexoeiro Hospital. And by not going much further, this summer, in June, the manager of the Vigilian health area said in an interview in the media that was a matter of weeks, that the jobs were very advanced. So today we ask you to clarify to us what is the situation of these adaptation works of this unit committed so many times of dementia and so necessary, and what is the final date for its implementation. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u148	Good morning. Good morning, Mrs. Otero. In fact, as you move in your question, the sociodemographic situation in Galicia makes us think that the number of people who suffer in this case alzheimer or some other dementia will grow as the years pass. Already in 2017, WHO published in its global action plan on public health response to dementia 2017-2025, where seven spheres of action were established, among which dementia was placed as a priority for public health. That's how we view it. The truth is that our society has improved in recent years in raising awareness about these pathologies and has also increased the progress that enables its earlier diagnosis. Within the different types of dementia, Alzheimer's disease and degenerative dementia is the most common, and these pathologies are the second cause of concern for elderly patients behind heart disease. It is essential that all people suspected of having a pathology of this kind contain a quality diagnosis process, an appropriate therapeutic recovery plan, and follow-up according to the different phases of their illness. As you know, from Sergas we've been betting -- after listening to the mandate of this parliament -- for developing multidisciplinary units that allow an approach to more cross-sectional and comprehensive pathologies and more effective for patients. Last Friday, without going further, it was published in the Official Journal of Galicia the order that regulates these units. And it is expected that this multidisciplinary unit model will apply to the unit that -- as you well say -- is working on the Mexier. But I want to make it clear that a unit of dementia is not a physical space where professionals are, and this is also -- also with affection -- I've already transferred it to Afaga on several occasions -- not in one, but in several --. In Vigo's health area for three years, there's a neurology specialist specifically dedicated 100 percent of his time to dementia, a neurologist and a nurse. And besides this, there's also a psychogeriatric, another mental health nurse, one administrative and another nursing staff. I repeat: six people dedicated to the health area of Vigo exclusively to the attention of dementia. So if you ask me if you're together in the same physical space, I tell you not, but they're working specifically, and covered, on the other hand, their respective slots by other professionals, so that in Vigo for more than three years there's a unit of dementia. If we talk specifically about the work being done in that unit, because it has begun -- as it cannot be otherwise -- coordination with primary care, defining the circuits; and, well, it is done that outpatient care that we believe is really giving the fruit it had to give, in this case the consultation at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, and the psychogeriatric unit until now, recently, at the Hospital Nicolás Peña, but -- I repeat -- perfectly coordinated. As you know, we have a shared electronic clinical history where a professional's information can see another. And we believe that in that sense, although it is better, especially with this decree of multidisciplinary units right now this attention is being given appropriately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u149	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have Mrs. Otero Lago's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u150	Well, I don't know, Counselor, if you don't transfer that information well, those announcements that have been gathering the press on various visits on occasion, for example, the World Day of Alzheimer's. I was talking about news that goes back in time. You are well aware of Vigo's health area, and at the beginning of 2018 what is specifically announced is a unit of memory and dementia that will enter into operation that year, and they talked about that it will actually be located at the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. Soon thereafter what they announce is that there will be some delays in their implementation and that it will indeed be a multidisciplinary area, and that it will be shared in the Mexeiro Hospital, in the Cunqueiro Alvaro and even in the Nicolás Peña Hospital. He spends his time and announces at meetings that he holds with Afaga, with family members and with association officials, that the specific unit itself will have its point and space, and there will also be a responsible in front of her at the Mexoeiro Hospital. That's what they've moved on a number of occasions. He said, without going any further, this will see the health care manager himself in an interview in a medium of communication said that they were adapting their jobs to a specific place to set up, that after many delays it would be a reality -- we didn't say it -- that unit of dementia. And the mood in this case -- as I said before, because it's important and it's an absolutely common need for everyone and applauded, in which you were also talking about a quantitative and qualitative leap in the jobs they're going to develop -- because all this time and in spite of all these ads, it was never to put your finger in the chaga and ask when it's going, see when it goes, even though we're going from quarter to quarter. We thought and said that this is the moment, after what they've suffered, after that delay in the diagnosis of the closure of health centers for that non-presenceal attention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Time's up. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Otero Lago speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Your time is up, Mrs. Otero. [[Mrs. Otero Lago speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. You know how this goes. [[Applause]] The counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. As I told you, on the one hand, to insist that the unit was actually announced in 2018, and that unit as such began to function in 2018 with that neurologist and that nurse dedicated 100 percent to the attention of dementia, with important work that I want to put into value information by different health centers and that would be incorporated according to this professional was incorporated with these health centers. I repeat: this has been working since 2018, which is neurology; it has been incorporated a few months after psychogeriatry, in this case, in Nicolás Peña, because there was space there. And now these days -- by telling you about the data, but insisting that the unit is working, and the patients think they're perfectly treated in that sense -- yes, it's true that from the beginning we've been looking for them all in the same space and worked with different lines of search for that space. Finally -- as we said --, the result of the implantation of the infant-juvenile unit at Nicolás Peña Hospital in the spaces that occupied the psychogeriatric unit, this team went to the Mexoeiro Hospital; in fact, it's working, it's at the Mexoeiro Hospital. And this same week -- I was able to stand up there and see the works -- it's already quite advanced the physical space, which was the old one that occupied the unity of the breast, where we're going to physically concentrate all these resources, the neurologists who have been -- as I say -- three years dedicated exclusively to dementia, plus those who are already in the unit of psychogeria. So, I think it's good news that from the time that the works, which are practically finished, can physically match. In any case, we are not limited only to physical space, which, being important, is not the fundamental, but to human resources. But we're also working on developing a dementia integrated care process that defines not only for Vigo but for Sergas as a whole the management of this pathology. And we're also waiting in 2022 to develop the development of a Greek dementia plan, to homogenize resources for different dementia-related pathologies as well as improve coordination between levels of care. I mean, not only are we going to have in Vigo, as we already have right now, strategies to carry out the early diagnosis of dementia, to homogenize follow-up and define the best therapies to treat this pathology, which is equivalent, as I said, to all the Galicians, regardless of where they live. Not to be overlooked, of course, the importance of families, which always, in all pathologies but in this particular, are particularly significant. And, in that sense -- I insist again -- this information is well known by family associations, in this case of the Vigo area. They knew and knew, of course, the existence of these devices working in a coordinated way, mainly with those of the rest of the clinical process. And now, for the information you ask me, in these same days, the physical space will be finished where -- I repeat -- resources that have been working on these patients for three years will match. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u153	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da María Encarnación Amigo Díaz and six other Members, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, on the impact on the improvement of public health care following the convention signed by the Union in 2015 with the Amancio Ortega Foundation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u154	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u155	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Last October 19 you participated, along with other autonomic advisers, in signing an agreement with the Amancio Ortega Foundation for the acquisition of ten proton therapy teams for the National Health System. This agreement was negotiated by the Government of Spain, made up of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and Podemos, with the Ortega Amancio Foundation, and the People's Group seems very good to us. However, not everyone seemed so good to you when Galicia was a pioneer in managing this type of mechanized. In 2015 the Junta and the Amancio Ortega Foundation signed an agreement for this foundation to assume the cost of equipping a new technological equipment whose acquisition was already planned by Sergas. At that moment, some parliamentary group of this chamber criticized us for resorting to the charity of a billionaire. This parliamentary group was part of which today is the vice-president of the Government, who has just resorted to the same billionaire to fund the Plan of Protontherapy. The year after Galicia was criticized, the socialist government of Andalusia signed a similar agreement with the foundation. In 2017 it was already the rest of the communities, with socialist governments, nationalists and other colors, who signed conventions. At that time, some of those who today are self-proclaimed advocates of public health, for example Mr. Manuel Martín, who is now calling demonstrations in support of the health system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u156	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u157	I used to say things like this in the media:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u158	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u159	"It's a form of privatization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u160	You want them to be quiet, too, don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u161	...health care. Donation is a finalist and creates inequality. The Administration must decide on which money is used without interference." Or: "There is no lack of technological resources in the system, those that are long idle." For all this, now that almost all those who criticized these kinds of collaborations have given themselves to them, today, Counsellor, we want to ask you: What was the impact on public health care in Galicia at that convention signed by the Union in 2015 with the Amancio Ortega Foundation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u163	Thank you. Madam Friend, the truth is that with statements such as those just mentioned sometimes one is asked who defends public health from those who claim to be the advocates of public health. [[Applause]] Responding to your question, the signature of that agreement was an example in defense of public health, in this case by Junta as a part of the foundation, of course, which showed much more commitment to our health than what certain platforms demonstrate. Go forward, of course, as I said there, my thanks to the foundation for the effort you make this time in the case of proton therapy. First of all, it is necessary to clarify that this collaboration did not in any case involve interference, since the foundation financed two lots of a technology procurement file that was already initiated by Sergas and had been defended by the criteria of need of the public system. The first batch assumed a contract for the acquisition and installation of ten linear accelerators in the radiotherapy services and the connection of two existing equipment. Just in December of this year, the last accelerator of that contract is scheduled to enter into operation -- it was a contract that went from 2015 to 2023 -- in the Vigo health area in this case, completing the installation of these ten new devices and a centralized planning network. With regard to the nine already installed, during this period, the availability of these equipments was amortised during their working hours, obtaining an average of 99.20 %; i.e., they were only 1 % of the scheduled time. The total impact was the treatment of more than 27,400 patients, with 55 types of oncology diseases in this case. The other lot of the contract that financed the Amancio Ortega Foundation was that of sixteen mammography teams. Of these, four were intended exclusively for the breast cancer screening program, seven were installed in comarcal hospitals sharing between crybate and hospital diagnosis and five were dedicated to the hospital diagnosis, providing three of them with the modern tomosinthesis technology. In the period 2015-2020, a total of 294,708 mammograms were carried out with these teams. Therefore, Mrs. Friend, no privatization, no interference, no inequality, no idle resources. This collaboration has only brought more resources to public health and we rejoice that more and more people are aware of it. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u164	Thank you, Counselor. To reply you have the word to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u165	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. In fact, someone who works as a public health defender should fall down on his face as he opposes an agreement that helped almost 30,000 Greeks to treat his cancer and almost 300,000 Galicians to rule out or diagnose a breast tumor. From the People's Group we always believe that this kind of collaboration should be extended. Thus, in 2018 this Parliament approved an initiative by the People's Group that said: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to, in parallel with public investment in health technology, encourage and supplement all those acts of patronage which result in an improvement in the service to the patient." No opposition group supported her. We followed in the same thesis and, in fact, the budgets of 2021 included a strong public investment in health technology and those of 2022 do so again. But we are open to new agreements, as managed by the Government of Spain for proton therapy. Others changed their speech a little, and so the spokesman for En Marea, the organization of which was part at that time Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, spoke in that model debate of charity, which is frankly shameful in the middle of the 21st century; and the spokesman of the Socialist Party called for Sergas to prepare a report every time there is a prayer about what cost he has to accept it and ended by saying that in the end, if not, we end up with presidents who claim more of the men than the public investment. With regard to the latter, I would just like to highlight the title of the PSOE Government press release: Sánchez presents a plan to implement the proton therapy that will put us at the head of Europe in this type of cancer treatment. I don't know which presidents are the most accused of medicates, but on this second shift, Counsellor, we'd like to know if the Board is working on some more such arrangement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. Your time is up. [[Mrs. Amigo Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. Your time is up. [[Applause]] The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. It is clear that one thing is to speak from the opposition and another from the Government, but, if I tell you the truth, I almost appreciate incoherence. The worrisome thing would be that these groups in accessing the government had maintained those rather absurd approaches that they do when they are in opposition. I'm glad they change their mind. If I can move you forward with the culmination of any more collaboration in the sense of what you were talking about? I can do it. In May last year, Junta signed a new agreement with the Amancio Ortega Foundation to cover the costs of acquisition and maintenance service for five years of a new mass DNA sequencing team, in this case for the Galaga Public Foundation of Xenomic Medicine. Under this agreement the contract was lawful for this team, which has just been sued, in this case with the technicians of the Xenomic Medicine Foundation itself, and formalized for an amount of EUR 1.4 million. Xenomic has already received this sequencer, it is installed and this month we will visit your facilities to start its operation. In this case, I would like to point out that the Union is fulfilling this mandate of complementarity with the parliamentary agreement you mentioned. As we stand out in the attendance of budgets, in addition to this approach of the Amancio Ortega Foundation, the resources of the Xenomic Medicine Foundation receive them directly from the Board. These resources have doubled since the beginning of the legislation, from 3.4 million in 2020 to 7 it will receive in 2022. There is therefore a complementarity between the mescenate in this case and the public resources, which will immediately reduce the times and costs of many of the tests necessary for the genetic diagnosis with all guarantees. And finally, we also have the patronage managed by the central government of protontherapy, of what we were talking about earlier, which coincides with a priority already marked by the Union since the beginning of this legislation. I don't know if the Government of Spain has made this report that Mr. Torrado said it had to be done before the prayers; since then Mr. Junta had already prepared this study, in this case with the university, assessing the needs and possibilities of the installation of therapy in Galicia. So we were all prepared to commit this investment with our own funds and with European funds and now this prayer will allow us to dedicate these funds to other purposes, while with this agreement -- by the way, finalist -- we maintain the incorporation of this state-of-the-art technology into our public health. That's the goodness of these agreements, the net balance for public health is always positive, as long as it takes some to understand it for so long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u168	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question... [[Mr. Torrado Quintela asks for the floor.]] Tell me, Mr. Torrado, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, it wasn't an allusion that meant intervention on his part. No, no, no, you don't have the floor. No, you don't have the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Let's move on to the next question... [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling you, you told me it was for allusion and I said no. Don't worry. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's move on to the next question, Mr.... [[Murmurs.]] It's already recorded, Mr. Torrado. Yes, it was recorded, it was recorded. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I apply the Rules of Procedure. Mr Rivas, you are not in this debate. Mr. Torado, we have a question left. I have already said that it was for allusions and I have already explained to you that allusions value the presidency, and I have already told you that it does not correspond to the trial of what the Presidency is currently holding. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the floor. Let's move on to the next question... by Mr. Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro... [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Torado, I told you you didn't have the floor. To whom the debate is to be addressed is to the Presidency. Of course, and I'm telling you that you're not in the use of the word. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling you, you don't have the word now and we're going to move on to the next question. Thank you. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Next question. Question by D. Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro and Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the violation of fundamental rights in senior residences
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u169	To put the question you have the floor Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u170	The truth is, after all, talking about rights violations is a little curious. [[Applause]] Well, our question is a very specific question, and what we ask is to know about the actions of the Greek Government to protect fundamental rights of older people living in centers, including the right to freedom, dignity and self-esteem. In particular, what we're really asking is the reactions of the German Government in the face of the infringements detected in the violation of these fundamental rights. And we don't speak abstractly, we speak of a specific case, even if we won't name it. I'm sure because of the data and the circumstances -- it would be worrying otherwise -- you can identify which residential center we're talking about. The truth is, from this group, we had the opportunity, not without much effort on the part of this group, to know an act of the Galician Joint Inspection Service. And we said not without much effort because we were denied from this parliament unwarrantedly, on the basis of data protection, but unwarrantedly because there was no procedure and even because there was no data in that inspection record, as we could verify, that they could reach specific people or that they were of a personal nature, in order to identify them. Well, once we had access to that inspection report, because it has a presumption of truth about the facts recorded there, we could determine: first, that in that residential center in 2017 and in 2018 there had been no inspection visit. We only asked for three years. For these three years in two, no inspection visit was made. In 2019, when inspection visits were made, it was found that more residents existed in that centre than the number of authorized squares. The number of authorized squares was 198. There were more residents and residents in that center. Also, that the ratios of direct-care personnel were being breached, even though there were people hired to be a cook who worked as an assistant in gerontology. But what's more serious is that there were residents, in particular six people who lived in the center, who were being applied mechanical restraint measures without any consent or medical prescription. The judgment not of the BNG, but of the Spanish Society of Hieria and Xerontology, the measures of subjection undermine people's fundamental rights, those deprived of freedom, and they also undermine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Tabaretes, thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u172	... against principles and values, against dignity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u173	Your time is up, Mr. Tabares. He knows this works like this for everyone. If you've been careful, you realize we're interrupting everyone today when they're done with their estimated time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you all very much for understanding. [[Applause]] Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u174	President. Mr. Tabares, I thank you very much for your question today, because moving forward in the care and well-being of the elderly or disabled people living in a residential center in Galicia is a primary goal for all of us today. A mission that, in addition, shares all professionals in Galicia's socio-sanitary centres, who give their best every day to offer the best care and best attention to all older and disabled people living in that center. So every time I come to this chamber to answer some questions, I'll never get tired of professionals from all centres in Galicia, whether they're on the initiative, thank them for their efforts, their work and their permanent dedication during all these difficult months of the pandemic of coward-19. This daily work that all these professionals do is not for any reason simple, because ensuring the safety and quality of life of all and each of the residents is their primary mission. But they also have to attend to very different cases every day. The containment measures must always be the last resource. They must be used temporarily and, in all cases, in order to avoid a major evil. The social services inspection protocol sets out two requirements for its application: having a medical prescription and also having an informed consent. This informed consent must be by both the resident himself and a relative or his or her legal representative depending on the ability to work for each user. Mr. Tabares, whenever a breach is detected, whether it is in respect of this obligation or any other obligation, this is investigated by the inspection services of the Galician Board. And I'm telling you it's always investigated, always, without exception. And if, in any case, there are irregular actions, of course, the corresponding sanctioning procedure begins. And I tell you this always happens, without exception. So that's also what happened in the case you're referring to in the question you're asking me. A sanction was imposed on that entity and that sanction is currently following the procedures stipulated by the current legislation. Mr President, the system is working, non-compliance is being pursued and punished. And, ladies and gentlemen, more than 400 inspections have been carried out in the residential centres of older persons and persons with disabilities, and 58 sanctioning proceedings have also been initiated. The Galician board inspector's staff is acting hard in the face of non-compliance, and doing so in a way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u175	Thank you very much, Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u176	...proportional and always according to legality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. As we have a very clear picture of what centre we are talking about, firstly: when we detect a violation of this style, an offence against freedom or the dignity of the person, it is not a sanctioning procedure, we must inform the Prosecutor's Office, because they are covering up a crime. [[Applause]] And covering up crime is also a crime on their part. So, yes, yes, so don't say you're respecting yourself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Second, to initiate the sanctioning procedure one year after the offence has been detected by their inspection services, therefore very demanding, of fifteen persons, even to control the violation of rights, not even as it is collected in the memory of the Prosecutor's Office, not even the Prosecutor's Office has sufficient resources. That is, in the infringements, in the violations of rights that are taking place in Galician residences there are no means of administrative or fiscal prosecution. But it's more, within that one year when they decided not to initiate, not to sanction, to initiate a sanctioning procedure, to that same company, that same center entered into 96 squares in a contract of millions of euros. In the face of a violation of fundamental rights, residents in that center, the answer of the Galician Union was not to sanction -- by the way, sanctions are quite reduced -- was awarded a new contract of several years and several million euros. [[Applause]] Counselor, you have to change and make a money order to the model. First there are people and then there are societies. And right now, and in this particular case, they are benefiting and protecting even the violation of fundamental rights of people, of freedom, of self-esteem, and at risk of health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Tabaretes. Time's up, thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, Mrs. García Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u180	Thank you, President. Mr Tabares, as I told you in my first speech, the staff inspector of the Social Policy Council always investigates the operation of the centres and acts vigorously in the face of non-compliance. The use of suggestions is true that it is a very delicate subject that the Galician Union wants to address at root, to prevent and to combat any type of inappropriate use that can be given and that I assure you that in our community they are absolutely marginal. Today we know that use does not always reduce the risk of falls, but there are other resources that are sometimes more suitable. That's why you can always guarantee the safety of older people. Limiting the use of suggestions to a minimum is essential to ensure the well-being of older persons and persons with disabilities who live daily in residential centres, and who must feel these centers as what they are, their homes. Therefore, in the new model of residences that is finalizing the Socio-Health Advisory Committee all major centres in Galicia will be obliged to reduce the tenders as little as possible. In this way, we will meet one of the main objectives of this reformulation of the health care system: to continue to humanize our centres more and more so that older people always feel as if they were in their own home. And in order to achieve this, all residences will have a program of reduction of tenders, with concrete measures and evaluable measures, and will also make an important effort in three key areas: in the training of staff, in the adaptation of spaces to make them increasingly accessible, and also in the use of new technologies, to facilitate the day-to-day work of our residents, but also to facilitate the work and work of the various professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few months Galician residences will advance for several years. The new model will bring together tools that will allow us to improve the quality of life of users, but also -- as I said -- to facilitate the daily work of the various professionals who care for our elders with so much and so much affection. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-10-DSPG056.u181	Thank you very much, Counselor. Since the last question on the agenda and no more matters is welcome, we finish the session.
