ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. I have to inform the House of a delegation of vote by Mr Moisés Rodríguez Pérez, under Rule 84.7 of the Rules of Procedure -- work for 22, 23 and 24 November --. This Member shall delegate his vote to the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. And, no more, we're on the agenda. Full debate on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u2	Amendments were tabled to Groups I and II, amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia and to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Mr. Miguel Corgos López-Prado has the floor for the introduction of the bill. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare today to Parliament's plenary session to explain the draft budget law of the Galician Union for the year 2022. We started the most important economic debate of the year, and the first thing I wanted to highlight is, fortunately, that the health situation, like Galicia's economic evolution, is much more favourable than eleven months ago, when the former advisor, Valeriano Martínez -- to which I want to remember again and acknowledge all his work over the past six years -- had to expose the accounts in force. In addition, the most important thing is that we are on our way to overcoming the most difficult situation facing the self-government. Galicia has already come out of the health emergency situation in which it has been 19 months. And he did it with the best data on the incidence of the vault across Spain. This should make us all happy because I believe that it is not a success of the Government, it is a success of the whole of Galician society. The government has done and continues to do everything possible to minimize the effects of the pandemic. The Greek public services were able to respond with note to a situation never experienced before, and we must all be proud of the ninety thousand public servants. There's a lot of work to do in the front but, fortunately, the worst has happened. And among all of us we have to be able to bring solutions and certainty to citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has as its main economic tool budgets. And in this sense, the first thing I wanted to point out is that the accounts in force are being useful to meet the triple objective that we set ourselves up almost a year ago: to continue fighting the pandemic, to devise the necessary financial resources to support economic reactivation and to meet families, pemmes and self-government in all their needs. The main figures confirm the good evolution of the economy and employment in Galicia. In terms of GDP, the last known data, referred to in the second quarter, ratifys that the Welsh economy has reactivated and recovered at international positive rates for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic. In an annual way, the second quarter's GDP grew by 17.5% -- the best data in the historical series --. Home consumption was reactivated with an increase of 23.4%. Expenditure on public administrations increased by 8.2% -- more than twice as much as on average in Spain --. The service sector grew by 19.8 %. The industrial sector has improved by 18.7% and construction has advanced by 9.3%. It's true that we're comparing the worst trimester of the pandemic, but we have to point out that quarterly evolution is also very satisfactory. The Greek economy in the second quarter has grown by 3 percent, far above the Spanish ensemble. It's the second best quarter in 15 years. Obviously, the first was the third in 2020, which is not comparable, because it rose by 15 %, but because we came from a time of confinement, as you well know. In just a few days, we'll know the GDP data in the third quarter and hopefully we'll be able to continue to confirm this economic reactivation. In the case of employment, we already have EPA data for the third quarter. And the first conclusion is positive. Employment is already at pre- pandemic levels and we go back to the path of growth and job creation that Galicia has been walking in recent years. The three rates that measure EPA also show a better scenario. It lowers the rate of unemployment, increases the rate of employment and increases the rate of activity in both annual and quarterly developments. In addition, we have very positive data, as the quality of employment improves, as we have the highest number of undefined workers in the historical series. The previous best was the third quarter of 2009. The unemployment rate continues to be lower in Galicia, at 4.34 points below the state range. The unemployment rate for children under the age of 25 continues to be lower in Galicia, at 6.83 points below the national average. And female unemployment is also lower: Galicia, 11.1%; and Spain, 16.4%. These data -- I insist -- confirm that the stability and economic revenues of the Union work and that we must continue to persevere towards economic recovery. As stated at the outset, the budgets of 2021 are being useful and contributing decisively to Galicia's reactivation. By 2022 we have to take one more step. The accounts for next year, which we are debating today, must play an important role in moving from reactivation to economic recovery. It's true that there's a lot to do and a lot to do, but objectively, the situation has changed for the better and we hope that in 2022 it will evolve even more favourably. Ladies and gentlemen, as true as there are many difficulties to overcome as well what is that Galicia is overcoming two crises in a decade. Yes, they're very different from their origin, but they're very difficult to manage each other for different reasons. Even with all these differences I would like to point out that these two enormous difficulties Galicia is prepared to come out in a better situation. Between 2008 and 2014, we had to manage the great crisis, the financial crisis, and at all times Galicia maintained its solvency, its financial autonomy and could fully exercise its self-government without intervention. That's why he overcame that financial crisis without having to be rescued, paying his bills at any time and circumstance and with control over his deficit and debt. All this work has had a far greater effect than being well at rankings and allowed us in a short time to consolidate a model of growth, the "health growth" -- a term very dear to our remembered Valeriano -- which allowed us to be the third autonomous community that most improved its level of wealth between 2008 and 2019. [[Applause]] When we reached six years of growth, the pandemic arrived in 2020 and caused the worst global health crisis. We have spent very hard, very hard months, but right now -- I insist, with all caution -- the citizen responsibility and massive vaccination of the Greeks and the Greeks allows us to albiscate a horizon of a normality that is not yet full but quite similar to what we had before the collapse of the coward-19 in our lives. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate all the Greeks on your kindness. We should all be congratulated on the good management of the pandemic in Galicia -- an assertion that we can rely on data --. Galicia is the peninsula community with a lower mortality rate, Galicia is the second community with a lower mortality rate in 2020; Galicia maintains the cumulative incidence of fourteen days among the lowest in all autonomous communities. And Galicia also has the lowest per capita occupation of ICU for copper in all autonomous communities. Now they touch us -- without lowering our guard, without trusting us -- continue to put all the tools at our disposal to overcome as soon as possible the triple crisis -- health, economic and social -- to move from the economic reactivation reached with the accounts in force to an economic recovery that we hope to consolidate with these budgets in processing and to reinforce the path of healthy growth that we were on until March 2020. I reiterate to you my conviction that the budget we are debating today in this House is a good tool to help these objectives. We are faced with some expansion accounts: we will have EUR 11,627 million, the largest resources in Galician history for the second consecutive year. And it's the tallest budgets, look at it as they look at it, both in homogenous terms -- and we have to look at it according to our criteria -- as taking into account the extraordinary resources of this non-consolidable exercise. Although by 2022 we won't have a fund covered by the Central Government's refusal to respond to this request -- i.e. that's what it initially looked like, we'll see what happens in the general government budget processing --, next year's budgets will continue to have an exceptional component, which is the one that gives them extraordinary recovery funds from the European Union -- to which I will refer later -- which must be key to strengthening the recovery of the autonomous community. But these funds have a different nature from the covered background, both in their content and in their finalist destiny and in their runtime, which are not annual and can be executed, as you know, until 2026. Although these resources are already coming, they do so more slowly than they wish and with a breakdown by the General Administration of the State that on too many occasions does not apply to Galicia all that should be transferred to us according to our criteria, with a breakdown below the percentages that should correspond to us -- as I also exposed --. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I think it is good to reflect on what budget model is appropriate to consolidate Galicia on the path of healthy growth. In this regard, in the Greek Government we are convinced that we must strengthen the strengths that allowed us to chain up six years of sustained growth before the pandemic. In this sense, our intention is not to return to 2019 but to move towards a new economic model oriented towards transforming projects that modernize the economic structure of the autonomous community. Because we have a better situation, both quantitatively -- with more resources -- and qualitatively -- with measures to transform and modernize our economy --. Finally, we want to adapt to the new post-pandamy reality and that Galicia is among the territories that are strengthened from the crisis. Let's see the top ten forts, our budget gap. The first is prudence in forecasts. First of all, I want to value the prudence and realism with which we always work in our budget policy. It is essential to design accounts with realism, because drawing up an unrealistic macroeconomic framework leads to unserving budgets and often changes. For our part, we are convinced that prudent and realistic accounts bring about certainty and trust, and therefore they are useful for citizenship. So from the German Government we want to develop another year of credible budgets built on the realistic forecasts that the IGE, our Institute of Statistics, provides us with the highest confidence. Right now, with the rate of growth that we're taking this year, and according to the IGE's own estimates for the next one, I can confirm to you that Galicia is ready to recover the pre-pandamia wealth in the first half of 2022 and therefore overcome it over the next exercise. And so we estimate it because we expect a sharp increase in GDP of 6% this year and next. This growth will be sustained, on the one hand, by an increase in private consumption by the mobilization of the embolsament produced during the pandemic crisis; on the other hand, by a special effort since the Autonomic Administration in this biennium in productive investment. This effort for 2022 will reflect the growth of 8.1% of gross capital formation -- also taking into account the execution of the next generation funds, of which I will talk about --. We also expect a sharp increase in the rate of exports, up to 10%. As for the labour market, equally, after the sudden fall of last year by the pandemic, we are ready to face two exercises of strong growth. The latest data from EPA are very positive and confirm this trend, as I've already reported. For this year, the increase in full-time equivalent jobs is expected to end with a growth of 5.4 %; and for the next year, for the next year 2022, of 3.1 %, so that they can cumulatively exceed 8 % of the year 2020. This improvement in employment will reduce the average unemployment rate by 2022 to 11.7 %. I insist, they are realistic forecasts and evaluated as prudent by the Independent Tax Responsibility Authority. Second, the reinforcement of public services. The second strength in our budget model is the reinforcement of public services, to those who have never spent as much resources as this year. And next year they'll still have more, because in the budgets for 2022 again we strengthen both traditional social spending, fundamental public services -- health, education and social policies -- and employment. I repeat that is the highest budget in Galician history. In total, there will be 8,660 million euros for health, education, social policies and employment, with an increase of 610 million more. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to get an idea of this amount, only the social expenditure plus employment exceeds the entire budget of the Autonomous Community of 2013, 2014 and 2015. But the most important thing is not to set a new record. The most important thing is for public health more resources than ever, 4,583 million euros -- 269 more -- ; for public education more resources than ever, 2,695 million euros -- 179 million euros more -- ; for social policies more resources than ever, 987 million euros -- 126 million euros more -- ; and for employment more resources than ever, 395 million euros -- 37 million euros more --. The three councils that have spent on essential public services concentrate 75% of the increase in budget; or, in other words, three out of every four euros of budgetary increase are devoted to health, education and social policies. For the reinforcement of services, an essential part is the professionals who provide them, especially in fundamental public services. And by 2022, staff spending is 4.9 percent, which is 4,327 million euros, the highest in the history of the autonomous community. Ladies and gentlemen, you will notice that this 4.9% increase is very high -- almost three points above -- of the 2% increase in public employees' wages. This is a sign of the effort being made in the reinforcement of staff frameworks and improving the working conditions of public employees. Third point, public savings. The third strength in this budget model is gross savings. As you will know, gross savings is the difference between current income and current expenditure, a parameter that we have been recovering since 2010, when it was only EUR 276 million. By 2022 it will rise to 845 million euros, more than triple. Thanks to this recovery of budgets it also greatly improves the set of resources that make up capital formation, because, as you know, the basis of healthy investment growth is gross savings generation, and this is the sum of gross savings and capital income. Well, capital revenues have nearly doubled in the last decade, from 730 million euros to 1,388 million euros. With these figures, gross capital formation will reach up to EUR 2.236 million for the next year. Let's remember, a decade ago, it was in the 976 million euros. Fourth point, the reinforcement of productive investment -- corollary of the previous --. The fourth strength of our budget model is the reinforcement of productive investment, which also contributes to the strengthening of public services. For the next financial year, capital expenditure, productive investment resources are increased by almost EUR 325 million -- an increase of 14.6 % to the increase of 53% of the current budget --. It's up to three times the current expenditure. So we add the two budgets with more than 2,500 million euros for investments, or, what's the same, with 5 billion euros in two exercises. And in addition to the general investor reinforcement, we've been looking for territorial rebalancing to cohesive Galicia with a higher per capita investment in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense -- as we've seen every year since 2009, and it's also going to be in 2022 --. This reinforcement allows Galicia to lead Spain's investor effort, as the data for the last year closed, 2020, to be displayed. Thus, the weight of capital expenditure on the total non-financial expenditure -- which is as if this investor effort is measured -- was 13.5% in Galicia, almost twice as much as the average of the autonomous communities, which is 7.2%, and the triple, for example, that other leading communities, like Catalonia. Five, the debt control. As a fifth strength of our budget model, we can refer to the control of indebtedness, responsible indebtedness. Precisely in this set, the lack of dynamism and the adequacy of the current financing model -- as we will soon see -- requires temporary indebtedness as a complementary financing mechanism. Yes, always in a controlled manner and within agreed limits. Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely the year in which we should not worry too much about debt. So we have to worry about binding the recovery. I understand, we don't have to worry too much because this government is responsible: it meets the fiscal consolidation path when the set requires it and applies a more expansive spending policy when the set also requires it -- as is happening at this point --. Obviously, when the extraordinary situation passes, we will have to return to the path of fiscal consolidation. And this responsible management has figures behind it. We are in a better position to be indebted now that it is necessary because this autonomous community is the community that has increased its indebtedness the least, despite the fact that we had to go through the great crisis between 2008 and 2014, where there has been a gross drop in income. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already commented on it in committee, and I want you to keep a record of this plenary. This year and what comes if you have justification to resort to obeisance. And we are curiously continuing to receive criticism from the opposition parliamentary groups for this reason. It is surprising that the BNG and the PSdeG have in recent times demanded that the Council of Galicia should devote itself more -- in the years of pre-pandamia, of sustained economic growth and with fiscal rules that limited it -- and that now, when these rules are suspended and that it is time to commit itself to return to sustained growth, if critical. We are going in the opposite direction. They are asking for more debt in times of kindness to promote fiscal consolidation and criticise indebtedness at times when it is necessary to promote economic recovery. Well, precisely because we didn't increase debt as much as they asked us to do, we can now make use of this extraordinary funding and, more importantly, maintaining the solvency of the Greek farm. Ladies and gentlemen, these are statements that are supported by data. In 2008 Galicia was among the most indebted autonomous communities, now it is among the least indebted. In 2008 Galicia had the same debt-to-lib ratio as the average -- sorry!, one tenth above the average -- now it's 6.8 points below the average. Interest savings are also the result of the previous one. The sixth fortress derives from responsible indebtedness and translates into benefits for the Greeks. Since 2009 we have avoided indebtedness to the Greeks at 5,847 million euros. The consequence is that each Greek owes 2,167 euros less than the average. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you one more point: in 2009 the debt interest expenditure was 179 million euros. And do you know which one will be in 2022? There will be 75 million euros, i.e. 104 million euros less than twelve years ago. These are resources that we can use for productive spending or for lowering taxes. As I've just said, only the interest-saving in next year, in relation to the present year, allows us to finance tax reductions with an impact on 2022. Seventh point, the agile payment. The seventh strength of our budget model is the agile payment to our suppliers. Since there is a record to measure the average time of administration payments, Junta has always been in the first positions as far as speed. In fact, after the first semester of the same year, Galicia is the fastest-paid community -- according to the official data published by the Ministry of Business and Public Service --. The average period of payment from Galicia to the closure of the first half was 10.99 days. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a figure. The importance of this figure is that Galicia pays in the shortest time among the seventeen autonomous communities, that Galicia pays in less than half of the time than the average of the autonomous communities and that the average payment period of Galicia was 20 days under state legislation. In a year as complicated as this, Galicia remains the one that best serves its suppliers, agitating payments and avoiding liquidity problems for companies serving the Greek administration. Eight, financial autonomy. The eighth fortress is our financial autonomy, an autonomy that we have not only today but that we have maintained at all times and in all circumstances, without the need for financial ransoms or bill payment plans. The solvency of the Welsh farm allows us to make our own decisions without more commitments than the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nine, minus taxes. Thanks to this financial autonomy, we can continue to develop the ninth strength of our budget model, which is the continued tax drop. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has a tax model that benefits the average and low incomes, and is not limited to one year -- in this case to the 2022 budgets --. We've been lowering taxes for over a decade with the intensity that allows us to have the economic set at every moment. If we refer to the IRPF, the first thing we have to consider in order to understand the scope of this download in 2022 is that we have approved three reductions of this tax in eight years, 2014, 2016 and 2022. And the three have a common goal: to favour middle and low incomes, which are the predominant ones in Galicia. [[Applause]] In fact, and despite the fact that, as all of you will know, this tax is progressive and therefore has to benefit all tranches of the tariff, the most relevant thing is that the impact of the three IRPF discounts was triple for the lowest incomes than for the middle and high. In order to be better understood, in 2022, the least-ingrediented Greek contributors will pay 22.6% less IRPF than in 2009, with the previous government; or, in other words, the next year almost half of the Greek contributors will stop paying one out of five euros over the 2009 fiscal year. And so they can check how we favor the lowest and lowest incomes, the accumulated savings for the lowest incomes -- the stretch of EUR 12,450 -- decreases by 22.6% cumulatively; for average incomes down between 16.7% and 7.9%; and for incomes above EUR 60,000, it goes down between 6.2% and 1%. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures are tenuous. It is clear that the highest tax rates are concentrated on average and low incomes. This Greek government favors the Greeks with medium and low incomes to be among the least paid out of all autonomous communities. With the new downturn, all autonomic sections are lower than the state rate, except for the 60,000 Euros. This is a progressive reduction of a progressive tax. Ladies and gentlemen, all decisions have a concrete effect, and the main advantage of this continued and complementary download policy of the IRPF is that in 2022 a Greek taxpayer who has an income of EUR 23,500 -- I think they can agree with me that it is an average income -- will pay EUR 3,090, while a neighbor of Asturias will pay EUR 3,203, EUR 113 -- not to mention a contributor of Catalonia, who will pay EUR 3,341, EUR 351 more than a Greek --. This is truly important, that the Greek IRPF discount model allows the Greek contributors to be among those who pay less than the whole of Spain, in particular -- reiterating -- each Greek contributor pays an average of 403 euros less by IRPF than when he ruled the opposition. [[Applause]] And, in addition to the IRPF, this tax reduction policy extends to everyone who has competence in the autonomous community. Let's see. In the property transmission tax we dropped to 2022 by 10%, given that we already have -- as you know -- small types that come to the point of not paying this tax to young people, large families and people with disabilities who decide to have a habitual living in less populated areas. Our intention is to reduce taxation to families who acquire a used housing, to foster the dynamisation of the real estate market and re-energize rehabilitation. In the wealth tax, we kept the minimum free and rewarded 25 % of the quota. Our intention is that this tribute will continue to decline progressively if the economic situation continues to improve. It seems logical to us that Galicia is adapting this tribute to our surroundings of the European Union. In addition, we maintain all the reductions approved in the inheritance tax, which place Galicia among autonomous communities with better tax treatment for inheritances between direct relatives and brothers. In fact, 99.9 % of direct inheritances are exempt from taxation. We also maintain the zero-tax program in rural areas, with the elimination of this tribute for all purchases of rustic soil, total or partial transmissions of agricultural holdings and groupings of rustic farms. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has been showing for years that it's possible to lower taxes, improve public services and settle accounts at the same time, and we've paid our suppliers faster than anyone else. At present, all administrations should think of formulas to encourage economic growth, employment and investment. In fact, the tendency of European countries during the health crisis was to bet on tax cuts to stimulate the economy. We regret that the Government of Spain is doing just the opposite. Tenth point, the defense of self-government. As the tenth strength of our model, there is the defense of the full exercise of our self-government. In the case of budgets for 2022, this self-government defence cannot have a better example than the confirmation that we can incorporate into those the 211 million Euros of the 2017 VAT which kept the Central Government retained and repeatedly asked this Parliament, to which I would like to thank you on behalf of the Government and the Greeks and the Greeks. It is a particularly satisfactory matter for this government. And here again I want to have a memory of the great work done by Valeriano Martínez to recover this money for the Greek citizens. At all times we were loyal but firm. We have exhausted all the channels of dialogue and negotiation with the central government, even proposing alternatives to reach a global agreed solution, since this was a problem for all autonomous communities. But, unfortunately, the Central Government did not want to respond to our proposals and we were obliged to go to the courts in defence of Galicia's interests. As I say, we exercise our self-government and we respect each other. And most importantly, we'll get -- sure -- this money, because we've recognized it by sentence and we don't depend on their approval in the general government budgets. We have shielded these resources regardless of the results of the central government negotiations with its parliamentary partners. [[Applause]] Once we've explained the strengths of our budget model, the next question has to be: what do we want to get with the accounts by 2022? The priority is to move from reactivation to economic recovery and strengthen healthy growth, but from a new perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard criticisms of the opposition to the Greek Government for wanting to resume this pre-pandamy model. I expect your arguments to oppose a model that has brought many benefits but which I want to sum up in just two: it has favored economic growth and employment creation sustained for six years, and, as I already pointed out, but I want to point out again, it has allowed Galicia to be the third autonomous community that most advanced in its per capita wealth in the last decade, up to 2019 -- the precedent for the pandemic --. With this result, how can we not want to strengthen the model of healthy growth? And for that we are exhausted from the budgets that we are debating as much margin as possible, both through income and expenditure, to implement the expansion of fiscal policies. Ladies and gentlemen, fiscal support and monetary flexibility have encouraged the availability of resources to combat the socio-economic effects of the pandemic and to keep it under control. In addition, they avoided more severe economic contractions and increased job losses. This support, coupled with the declines in income, raises public deficits and debt levels when the generation during the great crisis has not yet been regularized. Therefore, it is necessary to avoid the premature withdrawal of stimuli that frees the return to the path of healthy growth, in which the economy and the Greek finances were found in the moment before the pandemic. For that reason, from the German Government we believe that we must use all the financial provisions within our reach; in particular, the extraordinary funds mobilised by the European Union, as well as the margin of manoeuvre which offers the reference rate of need for funding. In spite of this, credible fiscal frameworks in the medium term are crucial to achieving balance and charting the path to the reconstruction of tax reserves at a pace subordinated to the recovery of economy and employment. In case these uncertainties weren't enough, in recent months there's been a rebound of prices, which most analysts think would have been normalized in the first half of 2022. Otherwise, the risks of tightening monetary facilities could significantly change to alleviate the danger of inflation. The current monetary policy is enabling liquidity in the markets of expanding tax policies. This circumstance, together with the proper management of the debt portfolio, makes these budgets significantly lower the financial cost of the debt service, which brings EUR 25 million to the actual spending capacity of the advisors. Ladies and gentlemen, although you have already had the opportunity to debate in Parliament's committee with all the members of the Government and to analyse the sectoral splits, I would just like to remind you of a few specific lines of these budgets. The accounts for 2022 account for 2022 count on the resources needed to, among other priorities, shield the health infrastructures of legislature, incorporating the necessary resources to provide the Greek health of the most advanced technologies; to consolidate an educational system with the best results in the PISA report -- in line with the leading regions of Europe -- and to encourage the university system towards excellence; to implement a new model of residences of the age age; to transform these centres into households; to improve social services for families and children; to improve social services for social services for children and children; to facilitate the reconciliation and the promotion of the quality of schools in children from 0 to 3 years; to strengthen the investment in R+D; to strengthen the investment in R+D; to foster the entrepreneurial and business and business and commercial activities with the impulse of competitiveness and competitiveness; to transform them into the internationalization of enterprises and autonomy; to promote a sustainable economy model; to promote a sustainable energy model, to promote a sustainable transition and manage five years; to implement, and manage five years; to implement the five years, and to implement the five years, and to implement the five years, and to implement, and to implement the five, and to implement, and to implement the five years, and to implement, and to implement, and to implement, and to implement the five, and to implement the five, and to ensure the five, and to implement, and to implement, and ensure the results, and to implement, and ensure the implementation, and implement, and ensure the results, and to implement, and ensure the results, and ensure and ensure the implementation and ensure and ensure the implementation and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement and implement and implement and implement and implement and implement and implement, and implement, and implement and implement and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement, and implement and implement, and implement and implement and implement and implement and implement and implement and implement and implement and implement and I'm just a dozen examples of priorities and lines of action that we can continue to implement with the designed accounts and that we are currently debating. Ladies and gentlemen, once you presented your accounts for the year 2022, I would also like to point out what our challenges are beyond these budgets. First of all, taking into account the set, I think I have to refer to the Next Generation funds, because one of the keys, not only of the economic recovery but also of its consolidation speed, will undoubtedly be in the use of these resources, an initiative by the European Union that seeks to ensure sustainable, inclusive and equitable recovery. I want to point out that, in order to ensure effective recovery and solid growth after the pandemic, it is vital to allocate resources inversely proportional to the level of per capita income, in addition to its good execution. In the distribution by country, Spain has access to about 140,000 million euros at constant prices of 2018, as you well know. In the overall amount, it provides EUR 126,640 million for the implementation of the React-EU Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, and some EUR 12,400 million for the React-EU, which operate as structural funds but with greater flexibility and flexibility in its execution, of which EUR 10,000 million were distributed among the autonomous communities. Galicia, only received 411 million, far from what was in terms of per capita, adjusted population or structural funds. In this sense, the German Government will continue to demand in every division that favors a cohesioned recovery, which so far the Government of Spain is not doing but quite the opposite. We also do not know that you plan to make the central government 70,000 million euros for loans that are envisaged in the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, with which public-private projects could be promoted. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that autonomous communities do not decide the fate and the amount of resources, but they are marked by ministries. At the beginning of this 2021 the sectoral conferences began and, from the beginning, most of the allocations for Galicia are between 5 % and 6 %. So far, 67.6% of the non-refundable funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism are distributed, and it is the State General Administration which is the largest recipient, with 58.7% of the funds. Local corporations have an important role to play, as in addition to 5.9 percent directly corresponded to them, within the allocations to autonomous communities they will also be resource recipients. From the monetary distribution by component we can deduce that the main investments of the National Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience are those related to sustainable mobility, energy efficiency and digitization, whether for citizenship or for public administrations. For now, the Autonomous Community of Galicia has 5.9 % of the funds distributed among the autonomous communities; that is, 2.5 % of the total allocated to the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism so far, which translates into something more than EUR 1 billion. Of these assigned accounts -- I'm talking about an allocation for three years, as you know -- they are formalized in agreements or regulatory bases for investments treated at sectoral conferences only 47% of the total. But it's more than EUR 1 billion, only EUR 50 million was reached in the treasure ark of the Autonomous Community, less than 5%. In parallel with the first sectoral conferences in April, the Galician Union published the Strategy for the Transformation of Galicia, a document that evaluated, for the main socio-economic events, the evolution of recent years and the situation of Galicia after the curfew-19, clearly and graphically exposing the growth path of recent years and how the health crisis has interrupted this evolution -- as I have explained --. In this work, in the Next Generation Galicia strategy, it proposes a series of immediate actions for the Welsh bet for recovery. Actions are embedded in sustainable development targets in five value strings with a clearly public-private orientation. First, the circular economy and the energy transition. The 2022 budgets collect projects for EUR 91 million, included in this value chain, in eos such as environmental protection and biodiversity, with initiatives on climate change, forest policy and the circular economy, with the impetus of renewable energy and energy efficiency, with the promotion of the decarbonisation process and the drive of smart energy transmission networks. Second value string: sustainable mobility. Public accounts include for 2022 initiatives amounting to EUR 25.1 million on topics such as the promotion of green intermodal infrastructures and networks, the drive of the electric vehicle, autonomous car and new fuels, as well as new logistics models, intelligent passenger transport systems and drones. The third value chain detected from the Next Generation Galicia Strategy is the hubs of innovation, industry 4.0 and ICT. In budgets we have projects amounting to EUR 103.6 million for this issue, on topics such as the drive for the creation and implementation of transfer centres for the development of disruptive and innovative technologies, with support for industrialization 4.0 of pemes; with the development and implementation of sectoral digital solutions and with the impulse of e-government and digital transformation of public administration. The fourth value chain is the mar-industry, agri-food chain and the cohesive growth. In the accounts we include initiatives amounting to EUR 153.7 million in this chain, on issues such as the development of sustainable and innovative employment, innovation and transformation of the agri-food industry, the promotion of rural dynamization and the fight against depopulation, tourism and culture, digital training and overcoming the digital divide, and the drive for more digital and inclusive education. And finally, the fifth value chain is the eminently social chain, which speaks of health, healthy lifestyles and the new care economy. In budgets we have amounts of EUR 134.1 million in 2022 on issues such as the most innovative, sustainable and patient-friendly health system, with a modern and efficient biotech and pharmaceutical industry, with sport and healthy lifestyles and with the impulse of social policies. In total, it's over 500 million euros. In the design of these value chains we seek the maximum coherence between the Next Generation Galicia Strategy, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the recovery of sustainable development goals 2021-2030, as you well know. Galicia also currently has a portfolio of 151 private projects candidates for Next Generation funds, which represent an investment volume of nearly 15,000 million euros. To 55% of these initiatives -- 83 -- there was a demonstration of central government interest. Ladies and gentlemen, as we believe that governance is fundamental to empowering the projects of the Greek companies and municipalities, we have created the Office Next Generation Galicia within the board, with organizational dependence on the management of the Igape and functional dependence of the Second Vice-Presidentship of the Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Council -- but closely linked to the Business and Public Administration Council --. The office has two units. The first is for strategic and business projects, to advise and seek synergies between the business fabric, with an important role of public-private society Impulse as a motor vehicle to promote tractor projects, transform the economy and thus contribute to the economic growth, employment and competitiveness of our business fabric. The second unit of public strategic projects is responsible for operational management, administrative processing, advising and coordinating the various managers of the councils and periodically directing the next Generation Galicia commissions. This office has coordinated a calendar of social dialogue meetings with the Greek social agents to consensualize and analyse the Greek candidatures. And, at the request of social agents, this task force will be kept to report its degree of progress. Ultimately, the Next Generation funds are an injection for the Greek economy and also involve an effort for the Greek public administrations by the bureaucratic and management burden that results from these aids when they are evaluated by targets, as you well know. I want to finish this first challenge, beyond the budget, by noting that, at a moment as transcendental as the current one, our autonomous community is fully aligned with European guidelines to form a greener and more digital Galicia. In particular, by 2022 budgets include an appropriation of EUR 507 million of Next Generation funds, which are also the first step to the new Strategic Plan of Galicia. A second point I wanted to talk about -- also beyond the budgets -- is from the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2021-2030. Precisely this plan is the second challenge that goes beyond the accounts for the next exercise. No doubt, the reinforcement of healthy growth is linked to the maintenance of medium-term planning. For this, the year 2022 will begin with a new strategic plan that will mark the roadmap for this decade and that part of the assessment of the impact of the pandemic on our society and our economy. It will be a key tool, with the participation of civil society and that we will have time to debate for the child, since we will present the strategic objectives of the next decade before the end of this year, as we commit ourselves. In addition, we will bring them to Parliament for its debate and for the comings of the various parliamentary groups if necessary. The revision of the financing system is the third point. Ladies and gentlemen, before concluding, and as a third challenge that goes beyond these budgets, I would like to refer to a matter of great importance to autonomous finance -- and in which tomorrow Galicia will be the protagonist of a meeting of autonomous presidents headed by the Head of the Chair, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, to address the review of the financing system --. This is a very timely debate about the model that has been in force for twelve years and has been pending review for seven years. In the financial issue the pandemic has shown that the current system is not prepared for certain critical income drop situations, and that causes dysfunction in administrations in the form of large negative liquidations. There is also a consensus that does not provide sufficient resources. With one example they'll understand me better. In Galicia, only the three councils that concentrate traditional social spending, the fundamental public services -- health, education and social policy -- have a budget greater than everything that comes to the current model. I'm sure it's something that coincides with many other autonomous communities. So, after the announcement from the Central Government of its review, the challenges must be to add and look for the best solutions for all citizens and that, regardless of where they live, they have guaranteed sufficient and equitable funding. Therefore, Galicia's intention with this meeting is to hold bridges to achieve spaces for dialogue and collaboration between the autonomous communities. These obviously have legitimate criteria and not always coincidentally but on which we need to look for points of meeting in such a complex matter if we really want to have a new funding system. We all agree that the current system has limitations and shortcomings and that it needs to be corrected as soon as possible. The solution must necessarily be global. And, of course, the Greek Government has its position, as you know, because it is very clear and known for a long time. We've also been working for a long time with other autonomous communities -- reiterating -- in the line of guaranteeing the right of all citizens to receive services of equal quality, regardless of where they live, with a model that ensures the full coverage of services to be financed, but also fiscal responsibility and the possibility of making fiscal policy from the autonomous community. The goal must be to finance people, not territories. And that's why, in our judgment, the new funding system must respect four principles that we consider to be basic. The first is the principle of transparency and multilaterality to prevent the negotiation process from being as opaque as the previous one and to be agreed among all, without any privileges of any kind. The second is the principle of sufficientness. Resources should be allocated according to the competences of each level of administration and on the basis of real expenditure -- something incompatible with allocations based on historical criteria --. And the reason is that not all expenditure needs evolve in the same way. The clearest example is health, which gets more and more percentages of resources. If we analyze the weight of health in the functional classification of the consolidated public accounts of the Spanish public administrations, we will see how it has grown, in the last two years, two percentage points of weight. The third is the principle of equity, equity in the allocation of resources with the same fiscal effort, since the distribution between the different autonomous communities must be equitable. Here we bet on a total leveling on homogeneous competences. And the fourth is the principle of financial autonomy and co-responsibility for the system to leave the autonomous communities to do fiscal policy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to know the real cost of the provision of services by the autonomous communities. We've been wasting too much time and this is not calculated. That is what would give us the certainty of the real financing needs of each territory, in addition to the differential cost factors within these territories, and would also eliminate a lot of demagogy about it. We are absolutely convinced of the need to draw up a map of services that enables us to know the actual costs of their provision in all autonomous communities and to offer a complete evaluation and evaluation of the structural elements that integrate them. This work would also give stability to a new model of self-financing. We need to articulate a quiet debate in which we are all listening. We would be wrong if we formulated this review in terms of winning communities and losing communities because the only beneficiaries must be citizens who must have guaranteed fair funding of their basic services living where they live. And as a government, we are guided by the general interests of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which ensure the necessary resources so that we can provide services in equity with the rest of the territories, taking into account our differential cost factors -- in particular, aging and dispersion --. In this regard, I would like to congratulate the parliamentary groups on achieving unanimity not only to create a study committee to carry out the reform of the system of self-financing, but rather because it will be agile work. And for that, they can count on all my collaboration, both by providing reports and the information they need. This is a matter of country and it would be good if Galicia spoke to one voice. I have already concluded with a call that, within the logical discrepancies within parliamentary groups, they look for meeting points at a time when consensus is more necessary than ever. So in addition to wishing them a good parliamentary process, I also encourage them to look for meeting points in the budgets for 2022 at a time that is vital for Galicia, to consolidate a recovery that has already begun but must be strengthened. In the German Government we are convinced that these accounts will be useful to move from reactivation to economic recovery, to reinforce healthy growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u4	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Counselor. Debates and votes on the amendments to Group I, amendments to the whole proposal for a global refund of budgets or of any section or expenditure management centre
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u5	We are now defending the amendments to the whole, group I, which demand the global return of budgets or any section or cost management centre. We started, first of all -- as I said -- by Group I. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia were amended. The parliamentary groups of thirty minutes -- as we speak -- will be available for the amendment defence round. And we started it with the defence of the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Mr. Knight Miguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to begin this speech at the plenary session of Parliament in Galicia with a reminder to who was a public servant, to the councilman of the Fairy and Companion in this House, Valeriano. I want, of course, to move the whole family once more our support. And I want to transfer to the parliamentary group and to the whole House a reminder of solidarity, a reminder of recognition and that we regret that today he cannot be here by doing this debate, serving the public and defending what he believed in, defending Galicia in what he believed in. It is the solidarity and support of the whole House. We also want to wish the new advisor every success in his tasks, because the successes of the Greek Government for economic reactivation and the country's reactivation will be the successes of all of them. [[Applause]] I would also like to begin this speech, ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary and parliamentary ladies, because by making a reference to how we were when we had to debate in this House a year ago the budgets of 2021. First of all, I would like to point out that today the President of the Council of Galicia cannot be here in this debate, and it cannot be because he has other institutional tasks -- that we respect, that we value -- to work as President of the Board. And those responsibilities are to be, on a day that is important to Galicia, on the arrival of AVE to our community. And I want to value the work done by so many Greeks and so many responsible over time. But I want to point out that I also know that a year ago the Group of the People's Party, the president of the Galician Union and his Infrastructure Advisor, denied that AVE would arrive in Galicia on dates before the end of this year 2021. That mantra that the People's Party kept continuously, trying to wash Mrs. Pastor's face -- which slowed down the investments, which put AVE's works in the fridge when he was a minister -- today he has to take a beating with reality. Today the People's Party of Galicia must recognise before the Greeks and the Greeks their lie, their failure of responsibility, their continued denial that the works of the AVE would arrive in Galicia before the end of this year. And he must do it by parliamentary mouth, by the Government's mouth, by the party's mouth, because the Greeks and the Greeks deserve politicians to tell the truth. The People's Party has cheated, repeatedly denied the reality that today Mr. Feijóo has to end up applauding when he is in the AVE arriving in Galicia. [[Applause]] But also a year ago the Group of the People's Party said different things, because last fall last year, in the autumn of 2020, when the Government of Spain presented the basis for a vaccination strategy and said that we were going to be vaccinating from the beginning of this year, the president of the Union said that the minister was making grandloquent announcements, that there would be no vaccinations at the beginning of this year 2021 in Galicia and Spain. And the president of the board cheated and lied again. [[Applause]] And so when we talk about the challenges of the year 2022, we also have to do it, considering what happened in the past. Vaccination was the strategy of success which marked the best guarantee against the health crisis in 2021, and which also laid the best foundation for economic recovery and reactivation. He said there was no vaccination since the beginning of this year. Error. And when he made a fundamental mistake, he also made a mistake in planning everything that is so relevant in the economic, social and cultural fields. The vaccination strategy marked by the Government of Spain alongside the European Union and alongside science and health professionals is a success. It's a success run by self-government -- also by German autonomy and the Health Council -- with health professionals. But that whole process is the success process of the year 2021. Because the year 2020 was the year of the arrival of the covid, the year of the great pandemic. 2021 is the year of vaccination, the year in which we managed to overcome the worst scenarios of the crisis. And the year 2022 must be the year of stable recovery, the recovery that drives the great challenges of citizenship. And that's why, at a time when the President of the Union moves us that he is concerned about the risks of a sixth wave -- and we also know that overcoming the whole pandemic is the fundamental basis for economic reactivation -- we have to move in this Parliamentary House that the budgets proposed by the People's Group and the Government of Galicia are budgets that are not up to what Galicia needs. They're a missed opportunity, an accounting proposal without a country project, no strategy for reactivation, no economic model, no measures and no economic policy. They don't approach the modernization of the country, they don't empower public services for well-being and equality, they have no guidance to generate quality jobs in reactivation. You still believe that farm policy is to adjust your accounts, make an accounting document. But behind the scenes there are no measures, no commitment, no ideas, no strategy, no economic policy. And that's the biggest economic suspense of all Mr. Feijóo's governments over twelve years in front of the Galician Union. They lack a model of economic policy to drive this country and plan it again in these budgets by the year 2022, which is a missed opportunity for the Greeks and the Greeks who are waiting for a Joiner to help them. The Government of the People's Party has handled the previous crisis with a right-wing exit. And that's why I'm still surprised that, when the adviser intervenes, he dares to make references to how the People's Party governments managed the exit of the great recession in Spain and Galicia, which was with austerity policies, with policies of adjustment, with policies that did not enhance growth or employment and that prioritized the neoliberal mantra of economic adjustments to try to abandon citizenship through accounting adjustments. That crisis was a mismanagement of the right hand, of conservatives and liberals, with an economic paradigm that today in the academy everyone rejects. And that's why, in the face of a new great crisis, there's a completely different paradigm to get the country forward. You guys haven't heard about everything that's changed or you don't know what you're doing, because you haven't understood how the whole economic policy has changed for over a decade now. In your accounts there's an enormous amount of funds with which you don't know what to do or how to do, because you don't believe in governments' ability to save people and boost the economy. In 2020, the pandemic showed how we had to stop all activity with confinement and how a new paradigm emerged that has driven fiscal policies, monetary policies, the set of active policies with an expansion perspective. And it's now when we have to implement those policies. There are two different models to get out of crises as deep as these. You continue to represent the inertia of the policies of the previous economic crisis, the inertia of adjustment policies, the inertia of inaction policies, the inertia of the economic policies of the fallen arms, hoping that markets and the adjustments themselves will return to a situation of gravity. And that's why -- whereas when they defend that there is now a need for expanding policies, they're suspending themselves for so many years of Mr. Feijóo's government -- they don't know what to do with so many funds to boost the economy, defend equality and generate jobs. From this crisis, we need to get out of progressive policies, Keynesian policies, expansional policies, policies that understand the importance of the social and that bet on economic growth, quality employment generation and a model of well-being. To continue thinking in terms of public deficit and adjustment remains the biggest mistake of a People's Party that lacks the ability to establish virtuous circles in the economy to modernize, generate jobs and get out of this time. You don't recognize that the management of the right and the governments of the PP in the face of the great recession was a disaster that slowed growth, that made it impossible for the generation of quality employment and that involved a decade of continuous drags at European level and in so many places. And now they have to put on a new suit, but they don't like it or know how to dress it. And that's why giving a new suit of progress to a government of reaction and conservative is losing that suit and letting things go wrong. Because you still believe that it is creative destruction -- as Schumpeter said -- of the economy that is going to modernize the Greek economy itself, because you don't understand that there is a need for an entrepreneurial state -- as Mariana Mazzucato points out -- to promote a new model based on science, R & D+i and the economic transformation that confronts the double economic and digital transition. You still don't understand that inequality is the greatest risk that causes the middle class to disappear, and that's why we need a welfare state, a state that bets on social spending and has a redistributive effect. Because the greatest risk of this great crisis is inequality, it is the risk of failure to modernise and fail to generate jobs. For that, besides accounting, you have to have policies that drive the country, and you don't have them. These June 2022 budgets are a missed opportunity. You think the public estate is simply the development of accounting documents, as if you had to make some accounts for a community of neighbors or for any kind of planning. But there is a total absence of a new economic policy for Galicia. There is no industrial policy behind these budgets of the Union; there is no rural policy behind these budgets of the Union; there is no policy of R & D+i behind these budgets of the Union; there is no commitment to the infrastructures of the country; there is no commitment to the model of the environment and to the green Galicia, and there is no commitment to housing policy. And there's a lack of commitment to the needs of modernizing the welfare state from autonomy and boosting social spending. How can we bet on some board budgets that have that lack of guidance! How will the Socialist Party of Galicia be able to support budgets of the Union that increase by 6% the spending on staff and offices of the Galician Union while dismissing more than 800 teachers in Galicia, to more than 500 health care workers who do not renew their contracts when they have given their best in the face of the worst problems of the crisis! It's a missed opportunity, and no, so we're not doing well, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applause]] So we're not doing well to reactivate the economy, to push Galicia, to take advantage of so many funds that they put in their hands and that you dilapidate and prefer to bury. By the year 2022 there is a double 30% increase, which is very important for Galicia: 30% increase in the territorialized investment of the state's general budgets in our community -- twenty-nine percent peaks, to be exact -- and also 31% increase in European funds that reach the budgets of the Union and that you will be able to manage. So, when there's more funds, when there's more possibilities, it's when we have to be more demanding. Because of course the Government of the Union does a lot of things, of course it's going to keep doing a lot of things. How are you not going to do a lot of things if you spend more than 11 billion euros a year? They don't know how to prioritize, they don't know how to do well, they don't have a model, they don't have guidance. They're simply summarizing short-term approaches that fail where the country needs them. They bury the possibilities that the funds of expanding policies give them. To reactivate Galicia we need conservative policies of progress rather than conservative policies. I want to ask the Government of the People's Party to end the apathy and lack of commitment and momentum to manage the present, and to bet on the courage, commitment and defense of the Greeks and Greeks to guide the future. And that's why we have to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that we're going to continue to defend policies of progress against the policies on the right. Different policies? Yes, because when so many Greeks and Greeks are listening to us today who are waiting for an appointment in primary care, they know that these budgets have no solution; because, when we hear so many Greeks and Greeks who are long-term unemployed, they know that there is no solution in these budgets; because, when they hear so many larger ones who are waiting for a place in a public residence that they can properly finance, they know that in these budgets there is no solution; because, when we speak with so many citizens who are affected by the great industrial crises that are in different brooms of Galicia, from the Navy to Ferroterra, or with the laborers of Hell, they know that in these budgets there is no solution; because, when we talk to the professionals of the social policies in Galicia that are so saturated, we know that these budgets do not find a reinforcement; because, we ask the glarges and glares who live in rural, there is no solution; because, when we speak to the problems of the social policies in Galicia that are so much, we give them solutions to make them possible changes; to make them happen, to make them. These are the budgets of the People's Party, but they're not the budgets that the Greeks and the Greeks, the ordinary Greeks, the workers and the workers, those who are unemployed and those who want the future need. And it's not the budgets that need our country's youth either. These are budgets that lack a model to give the young people of Galicia a chance for the future on this earth. Because there's no employment policy for them, because there's not enough housing policy for them, because you don't want to bet on free university fees for so many university students, because you don't have a commitment to youth for those who have gone and want to return, for those who are and want to follow. These budgets are a missed opportunity. And I am, moreover, with levels of backwardness, in the area of income and in the field of expenditure, which concern us. These budgets already make it possible to incorporate EUR 507 million from the Mechanism for Recovery and Resilience, the funds Next Generation that the Government of Spain, with progressive policies, has pushed in Spain and pushed in the European Union. These are some budgets that are already beginning to be able to make effective so many investment expenses that are necessary -- which, by the way, they have already been able to reach the budgets and the spending of autonomy since last year thanks to the Socialist Party but with a vote against the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies --. They wanted to block the layout of the Next Generation funds from the very first moment to reach the economy. [[Applause]] The PP voted against, the PP voted against the Congress of Deputies. He's in the hemerothecary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But in addition to all these kinds of ideas... it seems to me that Mr. Puy recognizes that the People's Party has voted against. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay. That's what I'm saying, Mr. Puy. In fact, the People's Party voted against the next generation funds being able to reach the territory, citizenship, investments, from the very first moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because they don't like Spain and Galicia doing well with funds and expanding policies. They preferred the adjustments of the great recession, Mr. Puy. That's the difference between the PP and the Socialist Party, between the right and the left. [[Applause]] But, look at, in addition to the coming of these funds, that European funds increase by 30% to the budgets of the Union, we, when we see the income policy and fiscal policy of this government, have issues that draw our attention. You still believe in that curve that was taught in the faculties, which was the Laffer curve, which said you have to lower taxes to increase growth -- something that no one already defends with any empirical basis in any model in the world --. To believe that, ultimately, emptying the state, lowering taxes so that there is no public expenditure and ultimately seeking to increase growth is something that is already swept away by the current paradigm in this crisis. But here the PP still defends him, and what they want is to always do that marketing of "we lower taxes but then we spend a lot." It's a policy -- that Mr. Puy can also know -- that we call "the free rider economy", the caps. What it means is that we like to spend but we don't put anything to collect, and we do the speech cheats on saying that we're lowering taxes to all of us to fund health and putting the funds needed for education or social policy. They do so because the Government of Spain has an expanding policy that allows the Union to increase its spending on public services. But that Laffer curve, that neoliberal policy, that deceptive approach to lowering taxes, is, in addition, a propaganda trap in which you want to conceal your great alliances with the most powerful sectors, with the most enriched sectors, with the high incomes of our community. And you have to remove the mask from the People's Party in Galicia, you have to remove the mask from that restraint, from that centrality, from that tranquillity. You're conservative with a regressive component in fiscal policies, of course we're concerned about. And they worry about us because, look, in Galicia there are more than a million declarants in IRPF -- about 1,200,000 --. You say the taxes are lower and it's important to tell the Greeks and the Greeks how low the taxes are taxed by this People's Party, who has already made property tax reforms to promote the high estates of this community. You're going to get down, through the bonuses of these budgets, 12 euros a year to 800,000 Greeks who have an average salary, but you're going to lower the IRPF tax payments to those Greeks by 500 euros -- 38,000 -- that charge more than 100,000 euros a year. You're down twelve euros to the working class and you're down 500 euros to the highest rents in Galicia. [[Applause]] And I want to remove the mask from this People's Party, which, after saying it lowers taxes, what it has is a policy of alliance with the most enriched sectors to forget about the working class, to forget about the middle class, to forget about the people who need it most. Because you don't make a fiscal policy at the time of the country. And it's so serious this scenario that even the People's Party amends the Government itself of the Council of Galicia, when it wants to rise a little bit the IRPF plot to those who charge more than 100,000 euros a year. Is this the best face of the People's Party? It's the face of the right-handest reactionary, the face of the most backward PP, which tells the Government of the Union that taxes should not be raised to those who charge more than 100,000 euros, and amend their government. Yes, gentlemen of the People's Party! [[Applause]] Mr. Puy, Mr. Tellado, amend your government, Mr. Counsellor, and Mr. Feijóo amends your advisor, because they don't want there to be a farm policy that rises a tenth of the rate, the marginal tax type, to those who charge more than 100,000 euros. It's just that when they say they want to lower taxes, they want to lower taxes to those who charge more than 100,000 euros, but they want to cut public health, public education and social policies. It is PP and right in pure state, an error without any type of acceptance. [[Applause]] And that's why you've eliminated one last shot. The Board had planned for six sections in the IRPF, and the PP amends to eliminate the last frame, which affects those who charge more than 100,000 euros. So I want to tell the Greeks and the Greeks that those 38,000 Galicians who charge more than 100,000 euros a year will be able to benefit from the tax drop of the People's Party, but the 800,000 Greeks, who are going to lower 12 euros, know that 12 euros are lowered to take their hair and continue to cut in health, public education and social policy for those who go to private and do not need the public. That's the policy of the People's Party. Besides, you make decisions that we don't like, because if in income policy you do this, in spending policy, the People's Party takes very important programs. You in spending policy go down next year's investment in primary care, which in public health is where it's most necessary and where there's such a level of saturation. They also lower the public health protection and promotion programme, another key issue. But they also reduce funds in teacher training or in so many areas of social policy that are fundamental. In protection and assistance pensions cut funds. In benefits to families and children, funds are cut. With regard to older persons and with disabilities, 14% are down. In support of the reconciliation of working and working life and other protection services, there is 25 % less. They reduce investments in trading games, in youth -- in the specific game there is a new cut, just like they did last year --. In historical memory and democratic memory, sky, it doesn't go with you, they don't like it, they don't care. In agricultural areas there is a significant reduction. That's not what the Galicians and the Greeks need right now. We need some budgets that have a clear commitment to public health, and if they have to raise taxes to those who charge more than 100,000 euros a year, they do it. Do it to increase funds in primary care, in primary staff, in hospital staff; to have a mental health plan that is able to have funds to get to the territory, for a new staff policy in public health in Galicia, where there are dozens of primary care squares that are not able to cover. In education it is necessary to bet on school lunchers, it is necessary to increase the teacher, it is necessary to return to the free system of textbooks -- which worked very well, much better than the current --. It is also necessary to move forward so that the first enrolments in public university can be given free of charge. We need to address the challenge of digitization. In social policies, why don't you want to increase funds to strengthen inspection staff in senior homes? That's where there were most problems and where you were called to order by the Board of Auditors itself because the residential inspection system was an ongoing fraud. When the pandemic arrived, it was necessary to change that approach. They also improve this area, or they also increase SAF funding. There has been significant progress in the Reactivation Commission, an agreement between the People's Group, the Socialist Group and also the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Of course, it was a breakthrough, but we must continue on that line. And I also want to ask the Government of Galicia, now that it will take forward the free education of children from 0 to 3 years old -- as we already proposed in our electoral program and as we ask them repeatedly -- to do it from now on, not to wait until the beginning of the next course, that they don't wait another month, because it can be done because there are funds to do it. You can propose that free for childhood education from 0 to 3 years from this very moment. That's a necessary amendment and it must be brought forward in the budgets of the Board so that since the first of January 2022 the words of Beijóo are made and not only marketing. We have to bet on strengthening the evaluation teams in disability. The citizenship that has some kind of disability is the one that always has to have more protection from the public domain. Because that's where there's more difficulties for equality, so that we all have the same rights. And there are difficulties in evaluation teams that need to be able to solve to make a determined stake in the defense of citizenship that has some dysfunction, which has functional diversity. That's a commitment that we can all achieve because I think it's a cause of the noblest who can lead us to political action, and they certainly have the tendency of the Socialist Party. As in this and in so many matters, we are going to make amendments and so on. But the truth is these budgets aren't up to date. And they're not up to equality too, which is a very sensitive and very relevant subject. It's necessary to set more funds to improve the CIMs, the Women's Information Centres, which is something I know the People's Party refuses, that it doesn't want to assume as something of its responsibility. We must take them to all the bars, to all the important municipalities, we must equip them with personnel, we must make an important bet, as well as seek housing solutions for victims of gender violence or a women's employment plan. In the search for equality and prevention of everything that involves some gender-based violence, they have the hand stretched out to improve these budgets. The budgets of the Galician Union are a missed opportunity. They show, in part of income, the face of what the People's Party represents, a People's Party that doesn't like expanding policies, which remains more comfortable in the adjustments, which remains more comfortable by lowering taxes to the most powerful sectors, to the millionaires, without sensitivity to equality or to the defence of the public. These are budgets that lack economic policy for economic modernization, for that double ecological and digital transition, and for the use of European funds to push Galicia, to boost reactivation, to prepare Galicia poscovid. I am an empty page of a government that is neither expected nor expected, which speaks to all the major challenges of our country, which, when it speaks of employment and the advisor gives some data, if it forgets to talk about the most important issues -- such as the evolution of the occupied population or the rate of activity in Galicia -- so that we can actually move to the country as the employment situation in our community is. And that's why the challenge we have ahead of us is a challenge where we have to ask other questions. I believe that the Government of the Union in the Next Generation funds continues to swing without knowing where he is walking. And I hope in the model of self-financing we can move forward. I would like to extend to all groups in the House the hand of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to work on a new model of funding that takes into account the specific singularities, the aging of the population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u8	...and also dispersal, which implies that we have to cope with greater costs to fund public services in Galicia. Galicia doesn't need a coupon model or an economic concert like the Basque. Galicia doesn't need a conflict either since Galician Union, but it's part of the solution. And, of course, if we can row unhindered to look for a financing model that favors the Greeks and the Greeks we will be getting that in the following budgets of the Galician Union there are funds. We will continue to need economic commitment and policy to think about people, about the common Greeks, about the day-to-day Greek people who need help since June. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u9	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u10	Good morning, gentlemen. Counsellor, budgets can say I'm something like the government's DNI. The numbers speak, and in this case they show that the verbale of the propaganda with which the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo try to sell us another year that we are facing some historical accounts have a lot of propaganda and little reality. I'd almost say -- so, in a joke way -- that if every time the People's Party used the word "historical" we could save a company, really today the industrial sector would enjoy excellent health and we wouldn't have thousands of jobs in danger in our country. Specifically, we're talking about 16,500 jobs in the industrial sector that are awaiting a thread. I suppose the People's Party won't question this data; above all, because it is a fact that recently made public the president of the Union, specifically in the meeting he held with the Minister of Industry, with Mrs. Reyes Maroto -- on the eve of the chance of life, of a general strike in the Navy --. I don't know if you know what the outcome was for this country: zero solutions, absolutely nothing, for Alcoa or Vestas or for any industry in crisis in our country. [[Applause]] And, unfortunately, we have to say that we don't see any solutions in the budgets for 2022, which are neither historical nor will be the panic that our country needs to be able to get out of this crisis and face the challenges so important that we have ahead. On the contrary, they are the assumptions of a absent president, committed to thinking about Galicia as little as we need to think about Galicia as big. Because we're at an extraordinary moment and you're presenting some ordinary accounts, some budgets designed to take us back, that kind of paradise that was that "old normality," instead of thinking that we should take ourselves to the future. Today's advisor said budgets work. I wonder what's going on. They work for us to have more jobs and more quality?, do they work for us to have more public health?, do they work for us to have more industry?, do they work for us to have first-class public services?, do they work for us to have more public residences to care for older people?, do they work for young people to have more opportunities in the country and not have to pick up their suitcases? They don't work, Counselor, they're budgets that make Galicia smaller. And this is a drama for our country. [[Applause]] We're facing a futile budgeting project. It is useless for recovery, useless to lay the foundations of a new economic model that must be based on science and innovation, useless to curb industrial desertification, useless to strengthen public services such as health or education, useless to advance in the care of older people and leave behind the model of doing business with the right to a decent old age, or useless to give the new people a future and, for example, to consider bringing back the two hundred thousand young men and girls who emigrated in recent years. Because, really, what better antidote is there to be able to curb the demographic crisis so brutal that our country lives? As much as they continue to deny it, even the Economic Forum itself has made a report that says that because of emigration, 1,500 children and fewer children are born each year in Galicia. I think we have, of course, a more and very important challenge to work for. These, therefore, are the accounts of a government without country ambition, trapped in the past and who has not learned from the lessons that the pandemic leaves us neither in the economics nor in health nor in the socials. Just analyze the figures to check that the "historical budget" rating is not supported. The data have an advantage, and they defeat Feijóo's propaganda. First of all: if we discount the EUR 211 million corresponding to the 2017 EVV, the budget is lower than last year's budget. If the Government had done well, these money had to be spent and, therefore, we are seeing that there is a first fallacy with which the citizenship of this country is to be deceived. Second, if we discount inflation -- which is important, because it measures the real spending capacity we have -- what we see is that this budget is less than twelve years ago. In particular, there are EUR 1.856 million less than available in 2009 if we put this in current euros. Third, let's talk about the debt. Well, in debt we have a cost in 2022 of 1,252 million euros, which is four times more than the budget of the Industry Council. I think coming here to assume -- as they constantly do -- that debt comes down is to trap the lonely. Look, it's just that the data are very powerful: since Feijóo arrived at Junta, the debt has increased from 4,859 million euros to 14,258 million euros. In 2009 it accounted for 8.6 % of GDP, at present it is 20.78 %. And, look, Counselor, the debate isn't "debt yes, debt no." In fact, we have always said that debt is a resource that has to be used by the Administration in order to benefit from citizenship, it is a resource, in addition, essential in order to be able to make economic policy. Whoever demonized the debt was the right, which even made laws to limit the ability of governments to act now to suspend because thousands of people would be at risk. [[Applause]] That's one of the lessons that leaves us with this pandemic. [[Applause]] But the question is, why do you owe this country? Because it improved public health, improved public education, do we really have a country that is in better conditions than twelve years ago? No, we don't. We have a country with a sanity against strings, with less teachers and fewer opportunities for young people. So what you leave to these generations is a debt that others will have to pay. [[Applause]] It's normal for you to say you don't have to worry about debt. No, generations will come behind us to pay for what you're doing. [[Applause]] Fourth given... I don't know, if you want, you can take the floor... well, if you call yourself a spokesman... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, fourth fact: this government repeats this failed recipe. I think at this point, I'm just defending her. I don't know if we're in the face of feionian trumpism, yes, yes, with the recipe of lowering taxes to those who have the most. Because, you know, we're at a time when the OECD, Biden and the big agencies at the national level are saying that the ones who have the most must pay more because there's a very big tax injustice. And this is going to be a problem to be able to face the challenges of the future. And what you present to us here is just that Feionian Trumpism, to come and tell us that they have to pay less than they have. We have the example of how you understand it with the downsides they do in the IRPF. The lowest income that has a liquidable base below 20,200 euros will save 20 euros a year. I think this gives every citizen so he can have a coffee. Yes, yes, a coffee a month, or a coffee a week. [[Murmurs.]] Instead, if the liquidable base is between 60,000 and 100,000, the discount is 495 euros, i.e. 25 times more. I think there's a very relevant data: only 2.56 percent of the Greeks and the Greeks have incomes that exceed 60,000 euros a year. And if we had any doubts about who really wants to benefit from these policies, then there are the amendments of the People's Party to finish it, and the rise that you anticipate for the rents of more than 100,000 already eliminates it by the People's Party. Because, in fact, you're here to defend the rich, not the workers and the workers. I think, rather than a tax discount, what we had to talk about would be tax farsighted or tax unfairness. [[Applause]] That's what you're defending in these accounts. Finally, we see some budgets of the Feijóo government that are useless to get out of the crisis, that do not reinforce public services, that are unfair in the prosecutor and that, in addition, they are making a mistake that I think is unforgivable, because at a time when a new economic model is needed, betting on science and innovation, by capturing talent, by actually implementing a country plan, transformative and ambitious, we see that the Government is neither expected nor expected, and continues with a routine that is really worrying. And these are some of the reasons that lead us to present an amendment to the whole, because we want Galicia to make progress, that Galicia is moving forward in economic recovery, in the creation of quality employment, health care, education and social services, that progresses so that we can give the young people a future, that we can move forward so that we can be an international reference in the care of the environment and in the fight against climate change, that we move forward towards a feminist Galicia; and finally, that we move forward towards a fairer, more equal Galician where we can live and work. Unfortunately, this is not the course that these budgets have, which perfectly portray a government that thinks Galicia in a small way, and this becomes very clear when, in addition, we're going to analyze sectorally what they do and what they draw these accounts. I want to start with a fundamental theme, such as health. If we go out to the street today and ask any citizen of this country what they think about how health is and what we need to do, what I would say is that it is essential that we strengthen the public health of our country, that we support a staff who has given everything and who has come to an end to this pandemic. Not only does he get exhausted for these tough months when they've had to face a situation that we didn't know, but they've arrived because they've been cutting and privatizing the People's Party for 12 years. Strengthening health is what a decent government would do, but it's not what the government of Feijóo does. [[Applause]] On the contrary, we see how hundreds of these health workers who have been doing their best in the pandemic, who would need to be strengthened by that public service. And we also see how they bring -- and it has to be said that they have a very tough face -- budgets that cut into primary care, precisely what has a bigger problem today, because there's a situation of obvious collapse that denounces all health personnel. And it's just that very serious things are going on. For the first time in our history, the Greeks and the Greeks have not guaranteed the present appointment. It's not about getting 60% of the face-to-face, it's about 100% of the face-to-face, which we had before, Counsellor. Because there are a lot of queries that can be done over the phone -- ordinary issues --. [[Applause]] What can't be limited is the right to face-to-face appointment as it is currently being done, and its response is to cut off resources for primary care. And we have to say it clearly: this is indecent, it's indecent with professionals, it's indecent with patients and it's indecent with an indecent citizenship that had exemplary behavior. We have to remember, because health problems didn't start with the pandemic, they were already there, and there are very obvious symptoms in Greek society of how these problems were manifested. We all remember that of "Verin doesn't close," we all remember the block resignation of the heads and heads of service of Vigo health centers, we all remember that in these months there were complaints to the Health Council -- up to medical schools -- for lack of coverage, and all of us remember the constant social mobilizations in defense of a fundamental good for this society such as public health. By the way, the last one was a massive demonstration a week ago in Santiago. It is sad that the Government's response is the pre-eminence, sovereignty or disqualifications of the people who were manifesting there, including many professionals from the public system. [[Applause]] Now, if we take off inflation, primary care will have at 2022 277 million euros less than it had in 2009. It seems incredible after living a pandemic, but it's the budgets that you're presenting to us. And you know why this is happening? Because this government cares about a chicken that the professionals are exhausted, that they have endless schedules, that we see up to three weeks of waiting list to be able to come to your doctor or head doctor -- that it has to be said to be an extraordinary achievement of the government of Feijóo --. This government does not provide the necessary resources to end the waiting lists that were in hospital care and, on the other hand, what it does is to create waiting lists in primary care. It's a real purpose. These budgets show how much they don't want to rectify and they're going to follow their policy of harassment of public health. On the other side of the coin we see how, as public health continues to deteriorate, they will continue to drain resources for private and concerted health. Only in Vigo's health area are 159 million euros in hospital canons, concerts and subcontracts of services. In short, these budgets are a threat to the health of the Greeks and the Greeks because they do not take the necessary steps to be able to solve the serious problems of public health in our country. If we move on to social and equality policies, we also see how they are installed in the routine of a government that drags its feet on these issues. We see things that concern us, for example, that EUR 675,000 are cut into local conciliation and to finance co-responsibility measures. Do you know who will fundamentally harm these cuts? The women in this country, who are still the ones who, essentially, do the conciliation work. These accounts also make it clear that fighting against masculine violence is not a priority, there is only an increase in resources after a pandemic that has highlighted the need to strengthen services to predict, detect and intervene against machismo. And we think that in this matter we don't go too fast, we go too slow and we have to press the accelerator. That is why we will continue to demand that 1% of the budgets of the Union be set aside to fight against male violence. One out of a hundred euros, when women's lives are at stake, we don't think so much. It seems, of course, necessary. [[Applause]] And if any lesson has left us this pandemic, then we must pay attention and a little special attention to the care of older people. Here again we see how Mr. Feijóo does not learn the lessons of the pandemic and of course he continues to think small, because he keeps the model intact, which is that he does business with the right to a worthy old age. They show that they think more about keeping business with their friendly companies than about really taking care of the people in this country. In this budget project they plan to finance, with EUR 74 million, multinationals such as Domus Vi and other large companies in the sector. By the way, many of them operate in tax havens; that is, they're companies that not only do business with the old but, in addition, if they're dealing with public money and they're tax frauds. That's how the People's Party understands the care of older people. [[Applause]] And then we have to see how they lie about the amendments BNG presents. Because today we have seen that we are accused of wanting to cut back on what is spent on caring policy for older people. No, no, we don't want it to be cut. In our cross-sectional amendment, in fact, what we ask is that it increases to 96 million euros. What we want to cut is what private companies drain and use it to create a public care network for older people. [[Applause]] I believe there is a fact that shows his lack of commitment in this area: in 12 years not a single management residence 100 percent public in an aging country that does not comply with the recommendations of the World Health Organization! That's yes -- the branch advisor is not here now -- it's good that they predict a residence in Ribeira. [[Applause]] I mean, it seems to us that Ribeira needs a residence. What's already happened is that, out of the 315 municipalities that the country has, only a residence is expected where the social policy advisor is from. I think a little transparency with criteria and data would be good. [[Applause]] We've been asking for a long time to tell us what the criteria for the installation of social infrastructure are. And what we have is the silence by answer. And in this area we must mention something that concerns us, which is the cut in social protection and reintegration. We're talking about some budgets that collect 15 million euros less at risk, when we have 694,367 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. This is not a statistical data, it's thousands of people in our country. It's specifically more than the city of Vigo and the town of Coruña together, 26% of the population. And we also know -- because that's what data indicates -- that poverty is affecting women and older people the most. We believe that social policy should be strengthened right now, and these budgets clearly tell us that they are not going to advance either in inclusion or in social equality. In this area, precisely, we believe that public services play a fundamental role. Strengthening the public education system is a basic issue for advancing as a society and also as regards social inclusion. And we see how we have carried over the past 12 years an accumulated cut in the educational field of EUR 2.400 million. These 2022 accounts cut into school transport EUR 6 million; they cut into school dining rooms EUR 1.6 million; they freeze vocational training and there is only an increase in the start of primary and ESO education of EUR 4.5 million, which is by chance the increase that goes to private education. We understand that it is serious that we also see that in the educational field -- just as it is going on in health care or as it is happening in the area of the care of older people -- this is a government that bets more by the private than by the public. So we see private and concerted centres receive 262.4 million euros while they are applying cuts in the public. There is a fact that has just made public the Board of Auditors which is very significant: from 2009 to 2019 public education in this country has lost 2,500 teachers in non-university education. It's a demolition portrait of what you're doing. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Likewise, they continue to reduce support for language and culture, suffocating everything that has to do with linguistic normalization. Not only do they make a decree for the Greek to leave school but they're still holding budgets that are 50% of what 12 years ago. And I think the best symbol of how you conceive cultural politics is that while our creators and creators are experiencing a very important crisis, the Union devotes every day EUR 27,000 to keeping the City of Culture facilities open. They think more about buildings than about creators and creators in this country. [[Applause]] We also see with concern what's going on with the housing. In this area, Feijóo's policy is a phantom policy, because they cut and do not execute the resources we have. Here we see, for example, that in the 2020 budget, in the Housing Access Programme -- with 27 million euros -- 10 million euros were executed; in 2019, even worse; in 2018, even more disastrous figures, spent 0.5% of the housing access game. This is ridiculous and it defines to what extent you are not responding to some of the main problems our country has and, very specifically, to a youth that we see then has one of the lowest emancipation rates in the whole state. We are also concerned about how you act in a matter like the question of employment. In fact, we see how the Economics, Industry and Employment section is systematically among those who have a lower level of execution. We're talking, on average, about 40% of the budget is not about paper. And there are some games -- for example, in the job area -- that are a real scandal, because they really don't run even 5% of what they're supposed to be. This also shows how far and how much fiction is going on in these budgets. We are therefore concerned about a situation in which the labour market in our country has a lot of problems. We have a very serious problem of emigration of new people and we have to add to this something that concerns us especially, which is the negative trend that we are living in in the last few months and which contrasts with what is happening with the state average. September ended with 5,241 people less affiliated to Social Security, October confirmed this trend down -- with an increase of 0.61 percent in the number of unemployed -- and all of this taking into account that we also have more than 8,000 people who don't compete on unemployment lists. So we see that it is in a tendency that, if it were to be consolidated, it would aggravate a structural problem that we have. Because in Galicia we have a very low employment rate and a very low activity rate, and this means a disaster when we deal with recovery. We believe that there is a clear bet on the productive sectors. And this country needs a government that, when there is a problem, looks for solutions. I invite your lords to look for in these budgets what is the departure where the Union will support Alcoa's public intervention. Why don't you pick up a joint in that public intervention in Alcoa? Find her! I tell them they won't find her because we really have a government that has been very well defined these days with what she does. It's very easy to go to the solution: take a photo and come with empty hands and just criticize. Or it's also very easy to go to Burela in the morning to a demonstration, to say that you support the Navy and then come in the afternoon -- less than six hours -- and vote against the Industrialization Plan that defended BNG. [[Applause]] And the big thing is, here they don't have a single silent proposal either for the ship or for the textiles or for the recovery of our banking sector or to put innovation in the center or to make the sea and the rural environment an element of development and a loop towards the future. You, ladies and gentlemen, have no solutions or alternatives to these problems. They also don't face the debate about the great environmental challenge that we have ahead, about the need for us to get to work so that there's a care of our environment, and we're helping to stop climate change from here. You, on the other hand, make a perverse use of reality. Do we need renewable energy? Yes, but not a predatory wind boom that puts our rural environment at the service of electricity, nor, ladies, a water management model where we see there's no planning. [[Applause]] The Board does absolutely nothing, and what it does is act with authoritarianism in negotiating a new framework that regulates the Water Law. And, as much as they say, we repeat that behind that water law the only thing there is to try to increase the bill at a time when it's the least people in our country need. [[Applause]] And as time becomes very small, I wanted to refer to two final questions. The advisor said that this funding model needs to be reviewed. It's all right, we agree. We've been saying the same thing for a long time. And I think it would be nice for Galicia to talk, because so far what we've had was a president who's been quiet for these seven years while that funding system discriminated against us, without moving even one finger to change it. I am struck by the fact that negotiations have been opaque. [[Applause]] Who signed the current funding system was President Feijóo of his fist and letter. So the responsibility is who accepts a negotiation that goes against Galicia's interests. And we're worried that this system, which has been out of date for seven years, because we don't know what Mr. Feijóo's position is. Tomorrow Feijóo will go to a meeting where Members and Members of this Parliament do not know what they are going to defend. And we don't know because here's not a single proposal here, not a single document, not a single digit on the part of the German Government. And so what we'll see is a new propaganda exercise, not the defense of the country's interests. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I think the goal of a financing system is not to tend bridges. For us, the objective of the next financing system is that Galicia receives fair treatment, because we need to improve the current financing system, which clearly harms us. And I think that the attack on bilaterality in that negotiation is what hides their lack of trust in the country and that they keep thinking Galicia small and they don't trust the potential we have. We don't live in the solidarity of anyone, we live in the money that pays the Greeks and the Greeks, which with their taxes are the ones that are suffering from health and education.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u12	And look, about the Next Generation, because we would like to be clarified. First, why does the Union act with the opacity that criticizes the Central Government? Because at this point with the only resources that will be available to finance recovery, we don't know what the proposal is either, what the projects that Junta is going to drive, what they are going to be like, how much employment they're going to create. All we have is a succession of data where figures often do not match and where the fundamental elements are hidden in order to make decisions. And clearly what we're going to see again, I think it's -- and I'm saying this with sadness, because I think it's irresponsible -- like four or five big companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u14	...they'll end up taking the amount of these funds, and they'll pay the majority of them with cuts in pensions or cuts in labor rights. And this is what can't happen. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we pick up the counselor's glove. We want to be able to improve these accounts, because there is a need for substantial changes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u16	We hope that in the debate on the amendments we will not see the People's Party's absoluteist knee again passing over and over each of the proposals we have tabled since the BNG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Statement by the Galician Councillor and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u18	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. First of all, regardless of the opinions of each individual, I would like to thank the formulations they have made and each of the amending groups, although, of course, they cannot agree with many of their interventions. I will try to answer all questions, on many occasions together, because they are more or less coincidentally, although in the approach of the economic model there is a remarkable difference. And I'll also try to argue why the Government defends these and not other accounts. First of all, on Mr. Caballero's initial comments, tell him that the theme of AVE, not timeless, is it? It's good that the AVE finally arrives in Galicia. I'll give you my congratulations when you can travel from the Coruña to Madrid in AVE. [[Applause]] Then I was also remarkably shocked by the topic that I had labeled as a pandemic management error and an error in vaccine planning, when Galicia's model is a model of success for management of the administration and of the Galician society. We have 94% of the population vaccinated with double pattern. We are at the head of Spain and Europe on vaccination. I think the Sergas professionals, with the chief counsellor, and the citizens of Galicia deserve to pay tribute to this civic behavior in the face of the pandemic. I don't see any lack of planning. [[Applause]] And then I'm getting into a little bit of the accounts, budgets not the height, economic model without measures, accounting document. It's always the same. Accounting document. The accounting document is the basis, because if we don't have a transparent accounting document like this, which we present today to the House, you couldn't do your opposition work, first. Secondly, if they don't match their accounts, spending policies aren't sustainable. And this should be taken into account, too, and then I'll talk about the debt issue. And thirdly, it does have behind an economic model, an economic-financial model, as we believe, and an economic model of economic policy planning, as I have just described, both in the overall strategic plan that we are reformulating as well as in the Next Generation Strategy. So I don't understand that I miss this economic model, because it's clear and placed on the table. It's not a succession of slogans, as I could hear from the various spending policies that are repeated year after year in this parliamentary debate. Economic paradigm to deal with the crisis. The new paradigm, escape from the crisis, expandive politics and progressive politics. Expanding politics and progressive politics from time to time? Expanding policy is a normal economic policy that is used when we are in times of crisis, increasing public spending and boosting aggregate demand. What does that have to do with being a progressive? Nothing. Of course, that's what was missing. [[Murmurs.]] But well, I'll ask Keynes for the PSOE card. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] New crisis exit paradigm, and they're talking about the crisis as well. There is no new paradigm, Mr. Knight, and you know it perfectly. What's going on is that there were two very different crises, in their genius and their effects. The first major crisis has a financial origin, created by the explosion of a financial bubble. And it was a crisis characterized by a conflict between debtors and creditors, which ended in a sovereign debt crisis, okay? And the answers to that crisis were the very ones of a sovereign debt crisis. And this crisis that we are now living is a consequence of the global pandemic crisis and we are all on the same boat: fighting against the pandemic, and the answers are different. By the way, monetary policy is not in the hands of both the Galician and the Government of Spain, it is in the hands of the European Commission and the European Central Bank. Financial stability will therefore have to be attributed to the global environment in general, and often the European Commission, not to the Government of Spain, which has no capacity to carry out expanding monetary policies, or to the Autonomous Community. As for the model that the Block poses, we also actually have different models. Mrs Pontón seems to trust everything in the drive of public participation in the economy, which I can translate by public interventionism, as she has just pointed out with Alcoa. Do you consider that the public sector should capture everything in Greek society? What weight should the public sector achieve in GDP? Everything? Well, we can't share that goal. The weight of budgets over GDP, the global wealth of Galicia, has to be moderate, because, as you know, in the public we are dedicated to producing goods and services and redistributing income and wealth. And to redistribute income and wealth is not to generate income and wealth. The private sector must have a fair weight in the generation of wealth. And, therefore, intervention cannot cover everything. You seem to know this subject too. We can have such expansional budgets as the ones I'm presenting, the tallest in history -- yes, they're historical, what we're going to do! -- and having a weight less than another year. Is that bad? No, quite the opposite. That is, we have the highest budgets in history and it doesn't increase its weight on GDP, you know why? Because our economic policy works and grows more GDP, which is the synthetic rate of economic progress, than the weight of budgets. In fact, Galicia, as I said before, is the third autonomous community that has increased its per capita wealth in the last decade. Do you think you're wrong? How do you think we were the autonomous community that had increased its per capita income in the last decade? And I'll tell you something else. The budgets of each autonomous community represent different weights over GDP. You can see for yourself. Which league would you like me to play Galicia? In extremes, with assumptions that represent 25% of GDP, or in Catalonia, where the percentage is 12%? You'll see. Second difference. In autonomic funding you want to get out of the agreed model among all and go to bilateral formulas, as I said earlier, of non-common communities. Well, we'll see. I'll translate it again. Nationalists want a concert system, where there is consensus that it would be negative for Galicia by all experts on the subject. But any study, reports that it's not the BNG's charge indicates that this would be very bad for Galicia, encrypting the losses to more than EUR 1 billion in a system of financing such characteristics. Our model is quite different, it's to improve the current one, to have a sufficient and supportive system that allows a Greek to have the same capacity of public services as an Asturian, a Madridan and a Catalan. I insist: BNG is able to defend a worse system for Galicia just because it would be a nationalist model. They won't find the Galician model there, ladies, because it would be bad for all citizens. [[Applause]] And the third point that Mrs Pontón points out is that the BNG does not recognize Galicia's progress with this government and denies it the possibility of encouraging Galicia's transformation of the post-pandamy with these budgets. On the first one, I remind you that Galicia is the third autonomous community that has increased its per capita wealth in the last decade; I suppose something would do well. As for the second one, I say more: the transformation agenda of what you are talking about is already under way and this budget is part of it, because it has the measures, instruments and strategy planned to move forward towards a new economic model oriented to transformative projects that modernise Galicia's economic structure. We have a better situation as quantitative, with more resources, as qualitative, with measures to transform and modernize our economy. In April we published the Strategy for the Transformation of Galicia, as I said, which led to the enhancement of four value chains: circular economy and energy transition, with quantitative allocations; sustainable mobility; hub of innovation, Industry 4.0 and ICT; and health and healthy way of life for a new care economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government has the resources, it has the measures and the strategy to adapt us to the new post-Pandemic reality of Galicia, so that Galicia is among the territories that will be strengthened from this crisis. They also indicated that the 2009 accounts were higher than those of 2022, using, deflating... well, on this subject, which I wouldn't give much importance to, pointing out two things. First, by discounting the 1,600 million negative liquidations that contained the 2009 budget and the 240 million advances in the liquidation of the autonomic financing system that made the new Government that took possession from April 2009 had to make an adjustment plan to compensate them, because there was no such income, I wanted to point out that IPC cannot be used to deflate the autonomous Community budgets, because not all budget shares evolve according to the consumer price index. The only part that evolves depending on the CPI is Chapter II, operating costs. But, as you well know, neither Chapter I, which is staff costs, in which the wage mass covered by the State Budgets Act evolves, nor the promotion chapters, both current and capital transfers, nor investment chapters, evolve according to the consumer price index. Therefore, it doesn't make any sense to deflate depending on the IPC. So comparisons would have to be made on the basis of the GDP deflator at most. Secondly, comparisons have to be done homogenously. In 2009 there were two splits that do not exist in the 2022 autonomous Community budgets. The first was State transfers to local corporations or local corporations' participation in state incomes, which since 2011, on the recommendation of the Board of Auditors, are not included in the autonomous accounts. And the second one, for the same reason, is the EAGF, which has an extra-budgetary treatment since 2018, so to make comparisons, you have to adjust the budget to its amount. So the accounts have to do them well and the reality is that by 2022 Galicia will have greater resources to favor recovery and achieve and overcome pre-pandamy wealth. Just with these homogenization adjustments -- we can subtract them in 2009 or sum them up in 2022, as they want --, the 2009 budget in comparable terms would be 10,544 million euros, and not counting what I said about the negative settlement income for 1,600 million euros, but also counting that in 2022 the financial expenditure will be 74.5 million euros, while in 2009 there were 147 million euros, twice as much as for the next year, and without applying the IPC. Another topic they referred to regarding the economic model is the issue of debt. Of course, the debt in absolute terms also grows and of course we also experience the two most important crises in history since the Autonomous Community exists: the great financial crisis and the pandemic crisis. And of course we must face these major crises, we must face these major crises with more debt. The problem is not that, the problem is you don't know how to use your debt, and you use your debt countercyclically, when it doesn't proceed. I'll give you an example. The debt per capita increased by 41,34 % between 2005 and 2009 and the debt between 2012 and 2019 by 39,29 %, with the maximum debt limits being exhausted to ensure its sustainability. That is, at the time of the financial bubble we saw before when they had deliveries to inflated accounts at 1,800 million euros, when there were advances in the liquidation of the financing system because the collection of own taxes by the financial bubble and real estate grew at the level of two digits, you were able to increase the debt more than you could increase the debt of the Autonomous Community per person in the period 2012-2018. They can't use the public debt instrument, they don't have an economic model, they don't have any idea about tax policy institutions and they only have ideology and dogmatism. So we can't get anywhere. [[Applause]] The Board does not invest in R & D, another typical slogan that is made to budgets, but it is shocking that they continue to refer to this issue when in the budgets of 2022 we dedicate to R & D+i 260 million, about 2.2% of the non-financial expenditure, almost twice as much as you do in 2009, and following the guidelines set out in the Strategic Plan of the Autonomous Community. Do you know how long you were meant for your last year of government? EUR 142 million, 1.3 % of non-financial expenditure. Innovation in Galicia has grown almost double the rate of the Spanish average since 2014, we have advanced 34 positions at the latest ranking in the European Union, while Spain has dropped two positions, occupying 16th of 27. The Strategy of Smart Specialization is an important step towards implementing this policy. Between 2014 and 2020 we granted more than 6,700 aids, we mobilised more than 9,9 billion euros, thanks to public-private collaboration. We are already working on the new RIS3 to focus on the priorities of the next seven years, with the participation of more than two hundred agents of the R & D+i system, the business fabric and the Greek society itself, gathering more than six hundred close, to consolidate an innovation-specific ecosystem and address Galicia's challenges of the year 2030, through an intensive model of sustainable knowledge and designed for people who involve as many businesses as possible. In 2022, an additional 20 % to boost innovation, in the Innovation Agency up to EUR 151.8 million, with a specific support package to promote innovation and the design between pemes, EUR 33.6 million, which will include new measures, such as the creation of research centres in the companies themselves, EUR 11 million. They also signal a subject to which I certainly want to refer because we are concerned: health care and primary care. Look, the health budget increases by 6.2% compared to last year, by 21.7% compared to 2009, although you governed and budgeted without being aware of the reality of the country's economy, as I have just pointed out. This government makes health care very important, which is to provide more than 1,300 places in the staff attachments of health institutions. This is an important provision both for new services and for consolidating jobs. I'll give you another data: today we spend almost 100 million euros more on primary staff than in 2009, and all this despite the fact that the only unrecovered cut by staff is 5% of Zapatero. And I'll tell you more: this government has been providing the centers with more resources with new equipment and with performances, whether of reform or of new construction. Investment in primary care for 2022 amounts to 34.3 million, almost twice as much as in 2009. And if we look at evolution, we'll check the decline in investments that took place between 2007 and 2009, when you ruled, and the strong growth this year and since 2017. There's a low cost game, however. Do you know which one? The pharmaceutical expenditure, which we have reduced thanks to the efficiency measures introduced in the last few years and which you have opposed, more than 113 million euros. As far as the concerts were concerned, the same thing happens. If we compared the volume devoted to investment in health concerts, except health transport, in 2022 to EUR 188.5 million and in 2009 EUR 197.9 million; i.e., without deflating, it was broadly exceeding the spending on health concerts by its two-party Government. They also talk next -- and they beat it with this -- of spending on social care and social promotion. I tell them the same thing: numbers sing, even if they don't like accounting. Budget in the policy of spending on social action and social promotion, EUR 987.1 million. In 2009, when you ruled, Mrs Pontón, the flaming vice president of the Bipartite, social policy, social action and social promotion, 570 million euros, almost half of the expenditure on social action and social promotion. Because, of course, one thing is words and preaching and another to give wheat, as you well know. [[Applause]] High cost of office staff. They also beat the high expenditure on cabinet staff and the PSdeg criticizes that any cats of staff are too high. I'll tell them something. The Block also indicated something in this sense. The 2022 budgets raise a 6% increase in the appropriations for potential staff. Within this 6 %, 2 % of salary increases are included in the salaries of all public employees. But this appropriation is 12.7% below the last budget of the Bipartite. And I'll tell you that this increase is much less than the possible increase in staff of the General Administration of the State in this exercise, which was no less than 49.2%. I don't know if they have also tabled an amendment in the Spanish Courts to this 49.2% increase in office staff by the Galego Nationalist Block. I remind you, in addition, that since 2009 Junta has saved more than 26 million euros in staff, as I said earlier. I also want to talk about some simple policies that concern us especially, that are collected in the budget, in particular the execution of employment funds, housing policies and the execution of housing funds, and finally the end of fiscal policy. Implementation of the employment funds. The highest priority of the Autonomous Community is to strengthen essential areas, to preserve employment and to increase in the best conditions. This would not be possible without our ability to implement, despite the difficulties of recent times, with absolute diligence, our commitments in the field of work. We must remember here that we are living in an extraordinary time, that we have several plans to promote extraordinary employment because of the pandemic. In the year 2020 the Government of Greece committed some 84% of the current budget to active employment policies, and in 2021 it was already committed to 55.27 % and authorized 90 % of the resources allocated to active employment policies. If we compare ourselves to the state, Galicia is the second autonomous community by number of employment aid published by Junta in 2021, between March and September 2021, 63 supports, behind Castela-León and followed by Navarra. Galicia is making a remarkable investment effort in employment aid, compared to the rest of the autonomous communities. The Union occupies the second post by budget allocated to employment in 2021 in respect of the budget for each autonomous community, with 1.81 % behind the extremadura community. We reached the fourth place of investment by population for the average between January and April, with an investment per person stopped of 1,450.67 euros, behind also three other autonomous communities. The same is true in housing policies. The IGVS ends the year 2020 with a real execution of 74.38 % on the executable funds of its expenditure budget. If only the funds of the Autonomous Community are considered, the execution shall be 82,54 %. In relation to the final funds of the state, as you know, they are executed when they reach the commitment phase, that is, when they grant aid. However, the execution of subsidised works and payments to beneficiaries are usually carried out in the following years of granting aid, since individuals or municipalities justify their execution. The funds, therefore, are not lost. You have to add that the count that appears -- like not! -- executed by the IGVS in the 2020 budget, it corresponds to actions that could not be executed, for various reasons. For example, in the enlargement budget of San Paio de Navia the IGVS had budgeted EUR 6 million, which could not be executed for the delay in the final approval of the partial plan by the Vigo Council. Or in the aid programmes, which were not implemented in all the funds planned because, despite all the requests, the applicants did not exhaust their credit. And to make a couple of comments about tax reductions, which are linked to the rest of the spending policies in this case and to the general policy that collects the budgets of the Autonomous Community. It is surprising that the opposition says that the German Government is conducting tax operations to benefit the minorities that have the most. The Greek Government has a fiscal model, by the way, with great social acceptance, which is not limited to the drop of taxes in a particular year, this year 2022. We've been lowering taxes for over a decade, as I said, 2014, 2016 and 2022, and we haven't limited ourselves to a tax; we've been lowering all those in which we have competences, since 2016, benefiting more than 721,000 of our low succession taxes, heritage transmissions and zero-tax strategy in rural. Do 721,000 families look like a minority? Not to us. By not saying that with the two IRPF discounts in 2014 and 2016 we benefit all the contributors and in 2022 we will do it again. We have downloaded the IRPF again to all contributors so that the Galician taxpayers are among those who pay less than all Spain and to capitalise on good financial management of the Autonomous Community and also make Galicia a better place to live, which is also important for attracting population, not just spending more. I'll give them just one. With the three IRPF rebates of this government, 2014, 2016 and 2022, on average each Greek contributor will pay 403 euros less for IRPF than when the Bipartite ruled; they can also put the IPC to this data. And just as socialists and nationalists defend primary care professionals, I wanted to point out a little bit what the tax impact will be on primary care professionals, which is also important for primary professionals to come to Galicia, what impact they propose to counter the model of the Galician Union and the model that you propose. Because you want to raise taxes to primary care professionals. Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Not to mention the professors, the colleagues of Mr. Caballero, the university professors. Do you know how much IRPF would raise with your proposals, Mr. Knight? I'll tell you: 291 euros. And with the BNG recipes, 362.81 euros. [[Applause]] We can continue with the health care staff, as I said before, because the PSdeg wants to take them up to the family doctors -- this is a good measure to attract family doctors -- nothing more and nothing less than 651 euros of IRPF, a very important amount, right? Well, the BNG doesn't look much like it, because the climb goes further, and they're going to go up to the family doctors 722.81 euros. Curious way of looking after the professionals in the Greek public services, who both supported the population during the pandemic. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Obviously, they've taken great care of not to make these tariffs into the amendments to the whole, they're included in the partial amendments, but we could do the calculations alternatively in the same way. Besides, they're not very different from those of last year. Fortunately, doctors, nurses and teachers can be calm, because these ups will not be applied, because they won't be accepted, and what the German Government will do is quite the opposite: to download the IRPF. Furthermore, as I say, in our model of tax measures we do not limit ourselves to a single tax. Let me just repeat a few other examples. The property tax is reduced by 10%, given that we already have reduced rates, which reach the point of failing to pay this tax for young people, large families and persons with disabilities who decide to have their usual home in less populated areas. In addition, we maintain all the discounts already approved in the succession tax, which place Galicia among autonomous communities with better tax treatment for inheritances between direct relatives and brothers. In fact, 99.9 % of direct inheritances are exempt from taxation. We also maintain the zero-tax program in rural areas, with the elimination of this tribute for all purchases of rustic soil, total or partial transmissions of agricultural holdings and groupings of rustic farms. As far as property tax is concerned, I would also like to recall a very interesting passage, attributed to a famous neoliberal economist, who says: "From the time of its establishment, the transformations of both the international economic environment and the same changes introduced into the tribute have caused it to lose its ability to effectively achieve the objectives for which it was designed. In the current context, it is necessary to remove the burden derived from this tax, through the most appropriate formula to ensure its effective and immediate elimination." What do the famous neoliberal economists believe, Mr. Caballero, to mean these words? What I have just read is extracted from the explanatory statement of Law 4/2008 of 23 December, which eliminates the tax burden of wealth, so you can assign it to Mr. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Applause]] So this tax has resumed at the worst of the financial crisis, when it was necessary to raise public income; now we are no longer in that situation. Its existence in Spain is an anomaly in the whole of the countries around us; there is no such tax throughout the European Union; Spanish heritage tax only exists in France, but it records only large real estate assets with a maximum rate of 1.5%, and in Holland, it records wealth but there are no capital gains in income tax, with a maximum rate of 1.6%. So this tax has no parallel in tax law compared in the European Union. And this tax also helps to maintain certain incomes that we are interested in maintaining in this autonomous community, because the liquidable bases linked to the taxpayers of the estate tax in the autonomous community exceed 1,800 million euros and pay here also for the income tax of physical persons. You say 'no', ladies and gentlemen, you are saying 'no' to extraordinary budgets, some assumptions that are thought for an exceptional moment and that allow us to realize a useful policy, so accurate at this time, some assumptions that are the highest in Galicia's history, that include new reductions in taxes for families and businesses, which have the lowest debt interest expenditure in the last twenty-five years, that come closer to more endowment than ever for social spending, that shield health infrastructures throughout the legislation, that strengthen productive investment, that strengthen and modernise public services and return to the path of healthy growth. Budgets are currently being rejected, which consolidate 1,378 health-care facilities, both for primary and specialized health care services; which increase by 9,1 % the structural allocation for primary staff; which increase the allocation of the health infrastructure fund, 115 million euros, which consolidate by 4,578 health-care facilities for both primary and specialized health care facilities, for primary and specialized health care services; which increase by 9,1 % the structural allocation for primary staff; which increase the allocation of the health infrastructure fund; which increase the allocation of the health infrastructure fund, EUR 115 million euros; which consolidate by 4,589 million euros; which consolidate by 4,589 million euros on the land for public health health, which came from the extraordinary copper fund fund this year, the year 2021st year; which reinforce vocational training as a priority policy policy, by triple the programme of boosting and modernization programmes, to triple the boost the EUR 469 million million euros and upgrade the €1 billion euros of growth, of €1 billion euros, of which will be allocated to the creation of 4,000 for the period 2022 2222-202-202-2026; and the budget for the period; ; ; ; ; which progress progress progress in the years for the digital transformation of public universities for the years; ; in the years; and growth of the years; the years of the years; the years of the years of the years; the years; the years of the years of the years of the years; the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years; the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years, the years of the years of the years, the years, the years of the years, the years, the years of the years, the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years, the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years of the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the years, the You give a "no" to accounts that promote through you the help of the purchase of the first housing property for those under 35 years in municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants in historical centres and provide several lines of rental help for hire centres and provide several lines of rental help for rent, also for all types of billion billion euro and, in particular, for those under 35 years; that improve the housing park for under 35 years in municipalities of less than five years in municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants in historic centres and provide several lines of rental support for rental centres, and provide several lines of rental help for rental rental services, including all types of billion euros and, in particular, of billions of euro5 million euros and especially those under 35 years; that improve the housing park for under 35 million euros under 35 million euros under 35 million euros under 35 million for rent and for rent for rent rent rentals, including €5 million euros under 35 million euros under 35 million euros under 35 million euros under 35 million euros under 35 million euro million worth million worth million worth worth million worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth worth; that, EUR under 35; that, EUR under under 35; that, € under under under under 35, € under 35 under 35 under 35, € under 35, € under 35, € under 35, € under 35, € under 35, EUR under 35; that under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35, EUR under 35; that under 35; that under 35; that under 35; that under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under35 , EUR under 35 million under 35 million under35 ; that under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under35 ; that under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under35 ; that under 35 million under35 ; thatincrease ; that under 35 million under 35 million under35 ; that under 35 million under 35 million under 35 million under35 ; thatincrease ; thatincrease ; thatincrease ; thatincrease ; thatin All this is what you're saying "no" with these budgets. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u19	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of the non-amendant parliamentary group. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I want to start and start congratulating the counselor and his team. As was said here, he took responsibility for drawing up, closing the drafting of budgets after the death of Valeriano Martínez, whom I also thank for the memories of the opposition parties. And the team and yourself have made an effort and an homage to the dead councilman, who also translates a clear regarding this camera to bring accounts in time with all the documentation. I would like to congratulate you because, in fact, the situations have been, in staff, extraordinary, and that is why I think it deserves the thanks and recognition of this chamber. [[Applause]] Secondly, I would also like to congratulate you and thank you for the fact that, in addition to bringing up the budgets, explaining the budgets, you have made more general reflections on the general economic policy of the Union, this one which some deny, which really has a clear objective, which is the transformation of the Greek economy, a transformation that has already come from far, although you do not want to see the changes that have occurred in the country's economic structure, with strengthening of the primary sector, a clear retraining from the previous crisis in the construction sector, the maintenance of the added value of the industrial sector, which is superior to the medium of Spain, and with serious sectors in crisis, which are strategic sectors, and which are supporting themselves, like the naval, the automotive, the textile sector, but at the same time looking for new niches, such as biotechnology, the aerospace, and at the same time, by modernizing and digitizing public services, particularly the public services that depend on the Union. We're adapting to changes, to the demands of globalization, to global warming and to the demands of a society that walks towards digitization, we like it or not. In addition to all this -- in case there was little -- I also want to thank you for announcing that you will bring to the House the Strategic Plan of Galicia, a strategic plan that, as in previous times, talks with experts, talks with society, takes contributions from all sectors and then debates in parliamentary headquarters. I think this is an important fact, an important commitment, and therefore we also applaud that it is fulfilled, because it is fundamental, it has a road map framed in Community policy. We must never forget -- as you have said -- that economic policy today comes very decisively marked by the European authority, both in the monetary field, the European Central Bank, and the Commission, as well as the Council of Ministers, where different parties, governments from different geographic backgrounds, give general guidance that allows, on the one hand, to walk the coin together and, on the other hand, they also point out the need for joint fiscal policies. And it is never more obvious that in this crisis, where all Spanish administrations are able to deal with the situation, thanks to the containment of interest rates by the Central Bank, by the Commission's decision to implement the financial stability rules, given the seriousness of the situation, and where we are also receiving European funds to increase the expenditure. When it's said that there's no economic policy, it's not being in the world, because that's what practically all the administrations are doing, at least the Europeans, some with the most correct and others with the least. I think, fortunately, Junta is doing it more correctly. We are in an immediate economic context that is certainly attractive. There is positive data, such as the growth after closures and the return to growth; we are -- as we also recognized -- in an excellent vaccination campaign, which allow not to shut down activities; and, of course, there is general optimism in economic terms, because, in fact, to cope with this new crisis, which is different from the previous one, because of course, if they are making decisions that were not taken before, like the ones I just said. And it is also positive, within this normality, that there are some budgets in this chamber, that there have been compliance with the rules, deadlines, and when we talk about most absolutism about that normality of handling these budgets, there is nothing more to contrast with what is going on in the process of the state's general budgets in Madrid, where there is a veto to four hundred amendments to the opposition, which Congress's lawyers reproach, because a massive veto is made by the Government, of the amendments. Even something that the lawyers might possibly say now that they should have been amended, that is to include a hidden fund, that many communities have budgeted, that does not exist and that here, responsiblely, it was not included in budgets, which you don't appreciate either, because you didn't make reference to that, and it turns out that, once an amendment by the majority of Congress is approved, here would no longer be the majority absolutist, it would be an absolute minority, because they veto the creation of the hidden fund. Well, there's dialogue here, though many times more than dialogue what there is is is demolition of things quite difficult to demolish, because they're quite obvious. But, in any case, this is due to everything, even amendments to the whole. If you speak of most absolutist, Mrs. Pontón, I read on the other day Mr. Rego's statements in Congress, the Bloc, which literally said they refused to amend the entire draft state budget to "make room for negotiation". The fact, on the contrary, that you present it here is that they no longer leave the negotiations; and that in Madrid they did not accept any of the 300 amendments nor did they comply with the investment pact. They say there are always two speeches; well, of course, there are two speeches in the Block too: one, with respect to the Socialist Party in Madrid, and another with respect to the People's Party's Party's Government in Galicia. But we will continue to try to maintain dialogue and coherence. [[Applause]] Well, let's continue with the economic context. I think there was a miscalculation -- the other day Professor García Delgado said it in an act in Santiago --. In all the major economic crises in the world, we didn't realize -- and we could have realized -- that the gap in recovery is not so immediate. There's a gap, there's a delay; that's how the 29th crisis was like this after World War II, that's how it was after the oil crisis, and that's how it was after the last crisis we had, the financial crisis. And we thought as we turned off because the economy was going to reactivate itself immediately; and indeed stocks were consumed, factories were shut down, and stocks were not refused. Now there has been savings and, therefore, when you give the button where there is a demand -- which is greater than before the crisis -- but, indeed, there is less resources and less capacity to produce than before the crisis; there are also companies that don't even produce anymore. And all of this, because it brings up a different situation, where growth is not expected, where there is optimism, but at the same time there are clear corrections to the growth rates that some with too much optimism have, and is also generating an inflation process that fortunately both the European monetary authority and the Spanish consider it to be conjunctural and that it allows to continue with expanding policies. But the fact is, in Spain, the deficit, which was expected to be 8, nobody says it's going to be below 8.4; the growth rates, which the Government fixed at 6.5 % of GDP, already almost all agencies set that it will be at 2021 of 4.4 % or 4.5 % -- the European Commission reduces it to 4.6 %, the AIReF to 5.5 % -- and we'll see what happens at 2022, where it's expected to be at 6 %. And within this, apart from these problems, why does Spain not grow as much as the rest of the countries? They think that Spain is the only large country that has not yet reached GDP before the crisis, Europe has already reached GDP before the crisis in September, Spain is still looking to see if we arrive next year. We have a slower growth than the rest of the countries. I don't doubt what part it has to do with the tourism component, but we also have to think about what's going on in other countries. For example, Italy has a wide range of instruments which the European Commission has put at its disposal. In Spain, the problem with European funds right now, Mr Caballero, is under-utilization. It's happening as with the minimum vital income, which ultimately passes the law but is not processed and the minimum vital income is not given. It's happening like with the crash plan to the pemes, which sets up requirements so rigorous that no one can opt for them and the money remains unassigned. In short, the EBO has approved EUR 850 million, currently estimated that there are 5.700 million of a total of 27 billion budgeted for this year. Why are there these traps? Well, I think that, first of all, because an independent authority was not created for the processing of funds and it centralized everything in Moncloa; and secondly, because it's all centralized in Moncloa, rather than counting on autonomous communities. And this centralization has been approved by you, in what they said the PP had voted against, with Vox's support, which, in particular, for Mr Sánchez suddenly became a state party. So, Mr. Caballero, take these questions into account: implementation, lack of execution, and don't blame the Union, which is not responsible for the centralized handling of funds from Moncloa directly and which has no information on which the PERTE will be or what requirements will be demanded. So let's put things in their place. In fact, we have to keep the stimuli. Gentlemen, you fall into contradiction. He says, on the one hand, that with this expansive budget is an amendment to last year's budgets. It's expansive or it's not expansive, because if it's expansive, the logic is that you had supported it, but it says it's an amendment to what we've done before, because they're different, but it still doesn't support them; it's really surprising. In the end they never support them, they don't understand the previous crisis, which was a crisis generated by the Socialist Party with real estate bubbles, unlike a crisis like this, which was generated by a virus that is global. If you don't understand that and you don't understand that Europe's reaction is different, because you really don't understand anything. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And he's talking about cuts, and I'm sending myself back to what I just said from the bottom of the cave, when in Galicia it's estimated that this year because of the vault we're going to have 200 million euros of expenditure. It's said I'm unguided, unstrategic, unpoliticized... well, look, Mr. Knight, what it would be good to clarify what conditionality they've assumed from the Government of Spain in that secret document, what we're going to know about. Because it turns out that in the previous crisis, in which Spain was rescued -- and now it's not rescued because there are next generation funds -- the taxes, for example, were not lifted to the highways. Portugal, which was rescued, was forced to put taxes and tolls on all the highways. In Spain his Government is announcing charges on the highways. So what are we talking about? When you say that there were cuts before and there are no cuts now, are you able to ensure that some of the cuts that have been made in other countries in the previous crisis, that they have not been put in place in Spain because they have endured the pressure to introduce these tax changes, will they now stand by the Socialist Party? It doesn't seem that way; otherwise, we wouldn't be talking about putting tolls on the highways. Finally, I think it ignores that the funds are stopped, we don't know what commitments the Government has made with Brussels to implement those funds. And, in any case, you came here to say, "Living the expense," and to me it seems very good, this year is to say it, but look at what comes to you. You'll have to take the path of stability again, you're announcing it to everyone; it's more, the sooner it's announced that the path of stability will be restored, the better for the economy of Spain, because we'll give it credibility. Anyway, I'm not gonna say anything about AVE. I'm glad AVE is coming. There was a socialist minister -- known as you, Mr. Knight -- who said in 1988 that we were going to have the AVE in 1993, because the Guadarrama tunnel was already finished; it wasn't that it wasn't without day and that it wasn't without harm, and it wasn't without decade. Indeed, it was a joint effort and we're all glad that he's coming to Ourense, and that's why we make vows so that the advisor can also see him in the Coruña and you can see him in Vigo, which is what we'd all like as soon as possible. [[Applause]] Well, we believe these budgets are suitable for the situation, they're expansive, prudent, they put the emphasis on investment -- 2,500 million euros -- social spending increases, social protection 8,600, more than the total budget we approved in the previous crisis in this chamber. In short, we are with health care which is the second to have fewer waiting lists, it is a health care that has been awarded as the most innovative health activity. Public spending clearly disproves him. Whenever you compare to 2009, Mrs. Pontón, you should say: and remember that the budget lacked 1,600 million, which are still incorporated into Galicia's debt, because there was 1,600 million in debt. And yet in social action we went from 570 million to 987, an increase of 73%; and in health from 3,700 to 4,500, an increase of 21%. In short, we support these budgets because they play the stabilizing role at this time of crisis, but also because they support equity. And here you forget -- I mentioned it in the debate about the state of autonomy -- that the Foesa Report says that in Galicia inequality, which increases -- but still, it is below the Spanish and European average -- does not increase because the rich gain distance from the others, but because 60% of the average incomes gain distance from the poorest incomes. I mean, there's a redistribution to middle and working classes that puts people at risk socially excluded, but not because the rich are richer than before, but the richest are 60% of the middle classes. Well, you're still on the subject of the fact that we're friends of the rich here, when we put them by themselves, according to the Socialist Party, a tax of the heritage above what the Socialist Party had for the whole of Spain at a time when it was needed, and when we all know -- and then it's good to remember Mr. Zapatero's quote -- that this is a tax that will be extinguished before or after, because there are communities that are already extinguishing it. And indeed, a taxpayer leaves because he hasn't paid in wealth, stops paying the income tax and other taxes associated with the residence and tax office in Galicia, so we'd make bread with pies for raising the estate tax. But on the subject of income tax, Mrs. Pontón said that it was an example of scampism, and the leader who comes to the House and says "make Galicia great", which is the trompist slogan par excellence. Well, he never ceases to have his grace, because what characterizes Trumpism is nothing but telling lies, telling alternate realities, which is what he did all the time. [[Applause]] You criticized the counselor -- who now doesn't accompany us because he's going to make a residence in Ribeira -- but you forgot to recognize that because of the Bloc and the Socialist Party, you're not building a residence in Ourense. This seems surprising to me: to stop a senior residence in Ourense and come here to criticize the Government because there are no residences. [[Applause]] Well, that's funny. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u22	It's also said that Alcoa -- I have to finish, actually -- it's that he said so many things! But in any case, I just ended by recalling that 68% of the Greek taxpayers have discounts above two tenths of the income tax, 68% of the lowest tranches in the income. Upstairs is 4 cents. What does that mean? That the discount on low income was 22% accumulated since we ruled and for what you call the rich, more than 60,000, 6.26%, and 100,000, 0.99%. With this, it is clear that not only does progress increase but there is a coherent policy of spending expansion, in this private case, with tax reductions, which mainly favours those who are less well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u24	It is true that in Spain there are communities that have marginal tax pressure on income of 54%. It would be good if you told them how reasonable it would be to charge on the income tax as a maximum type. In short, these are some budgets in which we continue to be the most invested, those that pay the suppliers first, where Galicia is the third community in which wage incomes grew the most, the second in convergence in per capita GDP and, in addition, we have a society that is more equal than the average.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u26	What's the conclusion? You might say the same thing about yourself as Borges of Peronism said: they are neither good nor bad, but they are incorrigible. Because they keep criticizing budgets that are completely different from everyone we know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u27	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica. Amending groups, Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. As the themes are emerging and we assume that at this moment the President of the Board -- I don't know now what time it is -- at this time it's already in Ourense, we have to remember what the People's Party and the President of the Board said on December 16 of last year -- less than one year ago -- the President of the Board said about the arrival of the AVE to Galicia: "It's best not to cheat, we won't have it in 2021," and he added, "It's good not to fool anyone, but it's going to pass the Holy Year and we won't have AVE with Madrid, for a new delay, the blame of the Government of Spain." And, therefore, the president of the Union has deceived, the People's Party has deceived. And I ask the People's Party today, on the day the AVE arrives in Galicia, that Feijóo apologizes, that he recognizes that he has deceived and lied to the Greeks and the Greeks, as the whole hemerotheque believes. And that, in spite of all the obstacles of the People's Party, the AVE to Galicia arrives today with a government that has fulfilled, which has not entailed any delay and which allows Galicia to be communicated at high speed with Madrid and Spain. That's the difference. [[Applause]] It is that the word of the Galician People's Party is worth as much as when Feijóo told us last December that the AVE would not arrive in 2021. It's not worth a continuous lie, it's not worth a continuous deception. Rectify, gentlemen of the People's Party, and recognize when it is done, because recognizing that it is done with Galicia, you may recover something from the lost credibility. And I wanted to tell you, too, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Mr. Puy, that, when you do some of these analyses about the budget situation, you lose your perspective. The advisor told us today that the accounting document is the basis. It's the biggest mistake, it's already showing the greatest ignorance of all economic policy. To try to tell the Greeks that the accounting document is the basis is to ignore that the accounting document is an instrument, that the basis must be economic policy to defend people, economic policy to work for employment, equality, public services, and that the accounting document is only a tool for making good policies for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks. And that's why they're wrong, because they don't understand any economic policy. Because they think the basis is to make an accounting document, which is to adjust numbers, but behind the numbers there have to be policies, projects, spending programs, investments and modernization. And that's why we can't support these budgets, Mr. Puy. Of course we don't commit any incongruence, we're totally congruent. It's necessary to make expansive policies, to put tax and expansional policies into the service of the country, but you spend, but you don't know how to spend, how to spend, how to be efficient at the level of expenditure. And that's what involves a worrying situation for the Greeks and the Greeks. You, Mr. Puy, point out that Spain does not reach the pre-covid level at this point in production level, as other economies do. And you yourself recognize that the weight of tourism in the Spanish economy has much to explain. But that's not the Galician situation, where the weight of tourism has a much smaller percentage in our productive structure and where we haven't recovered the precovid levels, despite having an implication, an effect of the pandemic of much smaller magnitude. And we also have to talk about different issues, such as the under-use of European funds. I want to tell you, Mr. Puy, that you are wrong, that you cannot speak of the under-utilization of European funds, because you went to the Congress of Deputies trying to veto the next generation funds that could reach the real economy from the very first moment. They tried to boycott the policies of the Government of Spain so that the Next Generation funds could serve to strengthen infrastructures in all areas, also in fundamental public services during the pandemic. The People's Party of Mr. Married, the People's Party that you represent, Mr. Puy, Mr. Feijóo, represents all there is to do when there are European fund policies to get out of a crisis. And that's why we know that in the budgets of 2022 there are EUR 507 million of the recovery and resilience mechanism that will be in the hands of the Galician Union to boost the reactivation in Galicia despite the People's Party. I also wanted to tell you, in relation to the issues that you pointed out, that we of course believe that at a time of reactivation the 6% increase in staff trust expenditure, eventually in the offices of the Union, it is a failure to respect so many Greeks and Greeks who are going through it so badly. I would like to say that clearly in a parliament where the salaries of Members and Members are freezing, to also have empathy and sensitivity. [[Applause]] And that the People's Party uses the budgets of the Union to prioritize the increase of its trusted staff and cabinet staff, while firing hundreds of health professionals and teachers in public services, is a failure of respect, empathy and being up to what Galicia needs. And I ask you to correct him. I ask you to put public funds on the priority of defending equality and people, instead of the priority of strengthening the offices and staff of the People's Party board. I ask you to rectify it, because there are many Greeks and Greeks who cannot understand it, who know that these budgets are not meant to solve their problems, but that they do detect that there are measures that are wrong. I understand that you have to have staff competent to be able to cope with the crises, but you also have to have the ability to know when it's time to do it. This Parliamentary Chamber freezes Members' salaries continuously for many years and is also because we want to be able to meet Galicia's needs. And just as we stand up for that situation, we want to ask the Government of the Union, that if you went up the salaries according to the IPC of advisers and advisors, that you rectify and withdraw that expenditure from unproductive staff, from staff working in the cabinets, but that doesn't mean an improvement in the public services and the situation of the country. I also wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you, when you talk about your model for this whole crisis, are unaware of and pose very wrong questions. Mr. Puy came here today to say that the previous crisis was caused by the Socialist Party; there was no Lehman Brothers, there was no crack in the stock market, it was the Socialist Party, but now it was the pandemic. This is the level of argument that can be reached -- I suppose by a slip, because I know that Mr. Puy is a rigorous teacher and a very skilled and competent deputy -- but I believe that this kind of slide in the background is moving a simplistic image, and a simplistic image that tries to prevent the right from mismanagement of the previous economic and social crisis. And now the right hand has the possibility in Galicia to increase spending, but he doesn't know how to make that expense useful to the Greeks and the Greeks. You say you must reach the levels before the time of the vault, but you must also say so clearly. Until he arrived, we had complex situations in Galicia, for example, in our commitment to the Greek public health. I would like to point out, for example, that the latest report by the State Association of Directors and Servants of Social Services points out that during the 11 years of the People's Party's government spending on health, education and social services has decreased from 66% to 62%; three points less during Mr Feijóo's government in commitment to public health, public education and social services; that there is 341 euros less spending, of investment per capita in Galicia than in Asturias. And those are also the effects of their tax policies and tax policies. You stop picking up and then you stop engaging in public services and social services. The per capita health budget prior to the arrival of the pandemic in Galicia was per capita in 1,477 euros, below seven autonomous communities: Basque Country, Asturias, Navarra, Extremadura, Aragon, Cantabria and Castile-Leon. And you want to get to the previous level now. They say it takes almost two years to be on that level, and so they're taking no advantage of the opportunity that all these funds give them to change that situation. With a huge rate of temporality, 44 % of healthcare professionals are in temporary care contracts specialising in health care, and 28 % in primary care. And these budgets don't solve it. If we see employment, we find ourselves faced with the enormous difficulties the Greek economy has in generating jobs, increasing the rate of activity, giving employment opportunities to people in the country, and these budgets do not imply any solution. And if you talk to me about European funds, you still have to explain why Galicia has left 4 out of 10 euros behind, according to the Board of Auditors this year's report. With management problems, management problems that have to be corrected, very serious. This government of the Union has in its baggage, in its legacy, to be the first autonomous government that had to return funds from the CAP to Europe, funds from the peasants, 55 million for not being able to execute them. And so you take off the face. This Government of the People's Party is neither progressive nor committed to equality, nor has its efficiency or management capacity, it spends funds that arrive, but the Greeks and the Greeks are more concerned today, when the Greeks and the Greeks meet with a government of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u30	...that he has no commitment to fundamental issues. They feel more orphan today. The budgets of the Galician Union for the year 2022 are a missed opportunity. Expanding policies with funds other than those that reach the Union, but which the Union cannot prioritise or manage. And today Greek citizenship is more orphan, because they haven't learned the importance of the public and the importance of economic policy. Because today the Greeks and the Greeks feel more abandoned, less empathic, less supported by a Union government that, instead of boosting a reactivation that reaches everyone, prefers to look at the People's Party mirror and forget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u32	...from Galicia, Galicia, Galicia. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u33	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u34	Very good day again. If you'll allow me, because, even though I wasn't part of the debate, it was in the session today, I also wanted to make an assessment of a fact that has its transcendence. Today it is inaugurated, for the second time -- I want to remember -- the arrival of AVE to Galicia. It is the second opening of Feijóo on the arrival of that AVE. And I think, if anything symbolizes the arrival of the AVE, it's the chronicle of discrimination against the Greeks and the Greeks, which we have endured for decades announcements of governments of the People's Party and of governments of the Socialist Party that told us that the AVE was coming. I was to arrive in 2009, I was to arrive in 2012, I was to arrive in 2016, I was to arrive in 2019 and here we are in 2021. And while other territories have been enjoying the AVE for more than twenty-five years, we have been enjoying lies, deceptions and non-compliances, which we hope will end right now. [[Applause]] And with another aggravating: that while we've had those twenty-five years of non-compliance with the arrival of the AVE to Madrid, what we see is how every time out of the Atlantic axis it's harder to travel by train in our country. Ask a neighbor or a neighbor of Lugo who wants to go to the Crown or who wants to go to Ourense. Ask a neighbour or neighbour of Ferrol to move to the town of Coruña. Or we don't talk about villages like The Carballin, like Sarria or like so many that are excluded from the railway network. In a moment of ecological transition, where the train is the middle of the future, what we have is, out of the Atlantic axis, less and less trains, older, less hours and more expensive. That's not the BNG policy of course. [[Applause]] And if I may, today I also want to have words of remembrance for the victims of Alvia, who follow, eight years later, waiting for justice, truth and reparation, and who today have done it again in this second inauguration of the AVE. [[Applause]] The counselor told us that Galicia is making further progress with this government. I think we have to measure well what is said and much more in a context like the current one. We have 694,367 people at risk of poverty. Is that Galician progress, Counselor? We also have the Galician Economic Forum itself, which has just said in a recent report that this crisis is coming out with more inequality and more poverty. I don't know if that's the model of progress of the People's Party, more poverty and more inequality in our country. [[Applause]] I don't know if in his progress he's been forgotten that in the last decade, two hundred thousand young men and girls have emigrated because of lack of opportunities and alternatives in Galicia. Or within that progress that you claim, you see us as normal that we have thousands of jobs at risk for energy prices in a Galician that is rich in electricity. We don't call it progress, we call it the economic policy of our country, which is made with the complicity of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] And look, there's obviously ideological debate in politics, but then there's reality, which is not what one thinks, but what's going on. And there's evidence, and it's because with you Galicia is getting smaller: smaller in population; smaller in industry, because 14,700 jobs have been destroyed in twelve years; smaller in employment, because we have less employment than twelve years ago and of the worst quality, Counsellor; smaller in public services, because today we have fewer teachers and have closed one of ten schools in our country. Or we also see how waiting lists are increased in health care, including primary care, which if something should be fast. Because if a person is told that he has to wait twenty-one days to see his doctor or head doctor, he has no better health, he has worse health, and he's risking people's health. [[Applause]] And so I could keep talking. Less productive sectors. It's just that half of our country's dairy farms have been closed. More than six thousand jobs were lost in that area, and so many others went ahead in the fisheries sector. And yes, Galicia is also smaller in R+D+I, because with the policies that made its government, the Government of the People's Party, over the past few years, the funds that have invested in R+D have decreased. And in the early years of the worst crisis in 2008, when other European governments were betting on innovation, science and knowledge as a basic pillar, this government cut off precisely in that area, expelling more researchers and closing up half of the innovative companies in this country. [[Applause]] That's why, Counselor, we have a fact that you should worry about, and you're investing less in R+D+I in Galicia today 12 years ago. And this is a responsibility of this government and the work it has to do with the business fabric. And speaking of companies, let me clarify one thing: Alcoa's public intervention, yes or no? Because he came here to attack BNG for defending Alcoa's public intervention. It's just that this is the big deal, Counselor! Yeah, yeah... what's PP's interventionism? The PP also has interventionism. Yes, he has an interventionism, which is to privatize public companies at a balance price to benefit his friends. And Alcoa, of course, was a public enterprise that you privatized, and now you have to go rescue her. [[Applause]] AP-9 was also a public company that you privatized... yes, yes, Mr. Aznar's government. Or isn't it PP? Oh, it's not PP. Ah! All right, all right. [[Laughter]] Having clarified this extreme, it's the independent Mr. Feijóo's fixed. Anyway! [[Applause]] Model financing. You still don't trust the country, and you've demonstrated it in your intervention. You don't trust Galicia, and that's a problem. Of course, you'd rather have the taxes we paid in Galicia decide in Madrid. They talk a lot about administrative and political decentralization, but why not in the collection? Transparency, what fears transparency? Not us, of course, because we trust the country and its potential. You're still committed to telling the Greeks and the Greeks who live of Madrid's solidarity, that here we have no capacity to pay for our health care with our taxes, our education... it's an absolutely devastating speech about the potential of this country. And we of course do, we believe that we must go to a bilateral negotiation. And here a lot of criticism of the BNG, the model that we stand for clearly and that we think it would be better if we had the key to our money and we didn't have it in Madrid. But it's funny, because the PP, which here is against having a financing model where we have the key to our money, where we can have an economic concert, in Basquedi goes there and defends the economic concert. And in case that was little, Mr. Feijóo when he was traveling to Catalonia, he was going to defend Catalonia as having the right to defend himself, a model similar to that of Basquedi. However, not Galicia. Tell us why they still don't trust the country and defend a model that, of course, goes right in the opposite direction? [[Applause]] At the BNG we defend one thing with absolute clarity, and it's who wants the most, you have to pay more. We believe it's a basic principle to maintain a quality of life, equality and a system that is increasingly redistributive, which is not what's happening. Because when you look at how income has evolved in the last few years in our country, what we see is that in Galicia, more and more the income of the capital and less the income of the job. In fact, today's income from the capital is above the income from the job. Official data of the Galego Institute of Statistics. But that's also key to maintaining and financing public services, which guarantee us the rights that all of us are equal to studying, to access a public health system, so that disease does not also become an element of social differentiation. And you don't do that. You're applying a policy in which the tax cuts to those who have the most. And this clearly breaks a basic principle on which there should certainly be some agreement. And he's done a rocambolesque twist today, because public health professionals don't concentrate in front of health centers asking them to lower their taxes, public health professionals concentrate on health centers every week in this country, asking them to cover the casualties, cover their holidays, and decent jobs. That's what health professionals and professionals are demanding. [[Applause]] Of course, it's regrettable the demagogy you came here with. Because they're exhausted and exhausted not to pay the IRPF, they're exhausted and exhausted because they're putting some working conditions on them and they're deteriorating so much public health that they're reaching the limit. And what they want is fair taxation, so that there are more professionals, more means and, of course, better public health in our country. [[Applause]] Look: in order for a professional to pay 750 euros in taxes, he would have to have a liquidable base of 60,000 euros; that means a salary of more than a hundred thousand euros. So we do say that, if a person has that salary, of course he has to pay more. Well, we're going to defend it with all roundness, against what you're doing. What do you know what they're doing? Those who earn 22,000 euros will be reduced to 20 euros a year. But those who earn more than 60,000 euros are reduced to 495 euros a year; twenty-five times more is the discount they make to high incomes. And we don't share that policy. And I want you to stay here... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u36	...absolutely clear and with all roundness. Counselor -- finish -- you said the numbers sing. And I say, yes, the numbers sing, and what we see is a government of Feijóo and some accounts that challenge the challenges we have as a country. What we need is that right now there was a government that was really ahead of a big project to give this country a better future. What you come here is with the usual routine, with repeated and trilated arguments, and, most importantly,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u38	...without any future alternative to be able to set up a better Galician where people don't have to emigrate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u40	It's your responsibility and you won't count on our vote for some accounts that are useless right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u41	Thanks, time's up. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closing of the debate has the floor of the councillor of Business and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u42	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your approach. We think we have a model. We do think that these budgets will help overcome the pandemic crisis definitely and start a stable growth model. We do think that the accounting document is the basis on which economic policy is built. Because without a strict accounting document -- then in the afternoon we'll see it -- where all the proposals made by the different camera groups are funded, politics doesn't finance everything. And what happens is that we have to pay. And if we don't pay in time, as it's used to doing Joina, we'll cause problems to families and businesses, because salaries and bills have to pay them and they have to be paid in euros, not in corks, gentlemen. That is why it is important to build on a solid basis of budgetary accounting and to finance all the shares and all the proposals correctly. Politics doesn't cover everything, gentlemen. They say there's a need to jump into efficiency in spending policies. We've been doing this since 2009. That's why budgets in primary care are lower -- as we said before -- because we save on revenue, because we bet on generics and revenue by active principle, saving more than one hundred nineteen million euros. We saved money that would stop the multinational pharmaceuticals; those rich fictions that you refer to. We did save and we didn't pay the big multinationals. The underutilisation of European funds is not so. This report of the Board of Auditors is likely to refer to the fund certification cycle. But the execution of European funds is very good, and every time we go to Europe even the European Funding Directorate of the Ministry of Finance reminds us that we are of the best European fund executioners in Spain and even Europe. Between 1986 and 2013 we managed almost nineteen billion euros, and we were able to absorb all these resources without losing one euro. We are currently running four billion euros, 10% of the appropriations in Spain for the period 2014-2020. And besides in Galicia, with this vast volume of resources, we're running much better than the rest of Spain -- fifteen points above and even above the European Union average. And we do it better because we have a culture of target management, indicators, monitoring and planning. That's why the execution of the European funds of Feder and Junta's operational programmes 2014-2020 is at a good pace. Compared to the other autonomous communities, Galicia is on the front line with the execution of actions financed from European funds, ladies and gentlemen. Until October 21, 2021 -- the latest data -- in the framework of the operational programme of the European Regional Development Fund of Galicia 2014-2020 were approved about seven thousand and two hundred operations, amounting to EUR 1.667 million. One hundred million euros in public aid, which exceeds the already programmed for the whole period. On the other hand, within the framework of the European Social Fund's operational programme, the new React-EU axis was authorised in the four main intervention axes, which was allocated to this exercise, one hundred and seventy operations, amounting to EUR 494 million, which is expected to reach 100 per cent of the total programmed. It is EUR 473.3 million, including the amount of the React-EU funds, as I said. The degree of financial execution is around seventy-eight percent of the program, with more than one hundred ninety-six thousand beneficiaries. So all the operations are being approved and we're in a degree of execution around eighty percent, and there are still two full exercises -- yes, 2022 and 2023 -- to be able to execute these funds. I don't understand what we're accused of. Performance framework. Progress in the development of programs has enabled us to comply with the N+3 rule, as well as with the examination of the so-called "performance framework" in all fund priorities, which implies that we are a fulfilling community. And the current rate of execution of the indicators provides for the achievement of the targets planned for 2023. Only two more autonomous communities, Cantabria and Basque Country, have achieved the intended milestones in all priorities in the Feder case, in addition to Galicia. Within the framework of the European Social Fund, Galicia was the second largest regional programme that passed the performance review on financial indicators and productivity indicators. And the latest execution data also believe what I'm saying: the good management of the European funds of the autonomous community. With regard to the Feder, on 21 October 2021, the execution of the programme amounts to EUR 900 million, which almost amounts to the planned amount, of which EUR 672 million has already been certified before the European Commission, representing almost seventy-four percent of the total. In the European Social Fund, on 21 October too, the financial execution reaches 78.3% of the programmed, 80 % without taking into account the React-EU funds. And the certified expenditure reaches 46 %, 51 % without considering these React-EU funds. The React-EU funds, which were incorporated into the operational programme in the last amendment of the programme approved on 13 August 2021, amount to EUR 80.5 million. So I don't know what comes to the subject of under-use of European funds. In order to demagogy the theme of the cabinet staff, it goes above the table, which comes as an example in the state's general budgets. But I'd also like to say one thing: that "inproductive" cabinet staff -- as Mr. Caballero calls it -- is what should monitor the good execution of the funds of the recovery and resilience mechanism in each spending section. So we're not talking about raising salaries to anyone, we're talking about incorporating new assets so they can help us manage those additional funds that come from the budget of the European Union. [[Applause]] I think we've already explained enough on the subject of R & D expenditure budgeting. First, we have to budget them and then execute them, of course. And the difference with 2009 is abismal: 2009, function 56, "Investigation, Development and Innovation", 142 million euros; in 2022 it has an amount of 259.7 million euros. I wanted to move on to this broad debate, as I was saying at the beginning -- the most important of the year in economic matters, making me pretend at the most economical part of it. Because this debate is more relevant, it is up to the moment it is developing. Along the same, of course, they came up with a statement that we have different budget logics. But I would like to thank the tone of all the voices and voices and the exchange of views and you seem during the debate, because it always enriches it. Ladies and gentlemen, all budgets are important, but this year and next year's budgets are particularly important because of the pandemic. We're ending a particularly complicated year, but I think if we were told that the epidemiological situation in Galicia was going to be in the current parameters, most of us had signed. I insist: I don't mean that the pandemic has ended or much less. In fact, case reviews in recent weeks have to keep us alert. But it's true that the incidence of hospitalization and severity of these cases is much lower than before. This is to a large extent because most of the Greeks and the Greeks, in addition to complying with the protective measures recommended, decided to vaccinate themselves or are still doing it in this case with the booster dose. For this reason, from the German Government we want to encourage all those who have not yet decided to vaccinate to do so again. The results believe that the vaccine is safe and effective. We all have to get 2022 to end the pandemic from a health point of view. However, we will have to keep working everywhere to overcome its economic and social consequences, which will unfortunately last longer. And that's where we have as government to get solutions for the needs of families and businesses -- and we're convinced that the budgets we are discussing today will help this task -- with a new tax drop, which will leave money in the hands of families and businesses at a time especially delicate by the generalized price rise, especially those of energy; with a reinforcement of public health services, education and social policies, to which we will spend more resources than ever before, and with an unprecedented bet on productive investment, with an approximate of five billion euros as we have just believed between this year and the next. At a time when the European Union is beginning to distribute very large amounts of resources in order to promote the economic recovery of all the Member States; but with a breakdown by the central government that relies on proper territorial cohesion, for an exit from the economic crisis at the same rate and not at different speeds. In this sense, the Next Generation funds are a great opportunity for all autonomous communities if they are distributed fairly and profit efficiently, which is what we want to do. So from this rostrum I demand the unanimous support of the parliamentary groups to demand a distribution of these resources by the Central Government that does not penalize Galicia. We as government will do everything in our hands to optimize them in order to promote the modernization of our economic structure, so that Galicia is among the territories that will be strengthened in the post-pandemic period. I'm done wishing you a good parliamentary job and with the memory of who for thirty-five years served Galicia, the last six as advisor to Fairy, Valeriano Martínez. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u43	Thank you, Counselor. Vote for amendments to group I as a whole
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u44	At the end of this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on Group 1 amendments, which shall be a joint vote. And we started by voting on those of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia. In particular, we are going to vote on amendments to the global refund and amendments to the budget refunds of the sections or expenditure managers. We vote. Joint vote on amendments to the whole of Group I, amendments requiring the global return of budgets or the return of sections or expenditure managers, of the G.P. of Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u45	We are now voting on amendments by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, as well as the Global Return Amendment and the Amendments to Refund of Budgets from Sections or Expenditure Managers. We vote. Joint vote on amendments to the whole of Group I, amendments requiring the global return of budgets, or the return of sections or expenditure managers, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u46	The session is suspended until 6:00 p.m., 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u47	Let's restart the session. It corresponds at this time to join Group II. Debates and votes on Amendments to Group II, amendments amending the overall budget content or transferring appropriations between sections
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u48	The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia have been amended. In order to defend the amendments, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor, representing the parliamentary group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u49	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome back, Mr. Landlord. And today again, I want my first words to be to remind Valerian Martínez, with whom I have had the honour to debate in the last five budgets of the Autonomous Community, and to always debate from the different political perspective and the different vision of ideas, but indeed, always from the utmost respect. So move my condolences back to my parliamentary group. Mr. Corgos, today we are going to debate the most important political document for the management of a government; a document that will allow us to counter the political vision of the People's Party, a conservative and neoliberal vision, against the progressive and social democratic vision that we propose to the socialists. And you, Mr. Corgos, have been ruling the Council of Galicia for twelve uninterrupted years, twelve years with most absolutes. So they have at least twelve budgets, but they're twelve budgets in which we find identical games and identical programs in all of them. In the moments of the great recession, the Government of Mariano Rajoy chose austerity, and the Government of Galician Union, which is that advanced student, applied the same recipes: matching the accounts against rescuing people. You fought this crisis with cuts in health, cuts in education, cuts in social policies, with more unemployment and the birth of that poor working class, with more inequality and more poverty. But during those twelve years that you have been ruling the Council of Galicia the budgets were the same as when we grew around 2-3% for six consecutive years. And again the same games and programs with a little more endowment, without shortening the great problems that already existed and that you worsened during the recession, without shortening the great inequalities, without reversing the cuts in public services, without recovering the number of busy people who were in Galicia in 2009, without planning an industrial policy with challenges in the future and without reversing the Greek demographic indentation, which left us in 2019 two hundred and forty thousand people under the age of forty years less than it was in 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u50	Please lower the noise level.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. With this situation came the most serious and abrupt crisis we could imagine: the pandemic of the coward-19, which triggered the deepest known health, economic and social crisis. But the difference between Mr. Rajoy's management in the state in the great recession, Pedro Sánchez's socialist government in the state put people at the center of public policies so that no one would stay behind. The Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez in the State has come to the greatest budgetary resources so that autonomous communities -- also Galicia, of course -- could meet the emerging needs of the crisis with more than two billion euros for Galicia only in the year 2021. In order for Galicia to achieve the greatest investments in public policies of its twelve years of government. He likes or doesn't like the Government of Unity, that's the reality. State funds and European funds have avoided a breakdown of our economy and a more serious breakdown in our society. That's why it's not the same when ruling the People's Party as ruling the Socialist Party. Of course it's not the same, because you put your heads on top of people, and the socialists put people at the center of politics, because politics has to be useful to citizenship. [[Applause]] A year ago, Counselor, we entrusted health, economic and social recovery to vaccination, to those vaccines that started to show up and be a light of hope. Today, eleven months later, practically all of the Greeks and Welsh people within the age groups permitted by the EMA are vaccinated. It is a collective success, thanks to the investment in research that has made it possible to achieve safe vaccines in a record time, thanks to the joint work of the European Union states for the joint purchase of vaccines and the introduction of economic resources, thanks to the Government of Spain for the management of vaccines and the approximation of economic resources so that communities can manage them easily, thanks to the autonomous communities for managing vaccination in their territories, thanks to the health professionals of Civil Protection and to all those who have participated in the management of such complex and unprecedented situations, and thanks also, as it cannot be less, to the responsibility of the Greek citizen, who has resorted massively to vaccination and who overcomes in our country the ninety-four percent of the people who have been vaccinated, which today enables us, even with pitfalls, to return to normality. One more proof, Counsellor, that collaboration between administrations is absolutely necessary when we talk about country issues. A proof that it's more useful to collaborate than to confront. This confrontation that President Feijóo had had for almost two years, while the continued work of the Government of the State led by President Sánchez to manage the pandemic with all administrations for the benefit of the entire citizenry. Counsellor, you know that budgeting is the instrument that enables you to develop the economic policy of a territory, so budgets must be designed to meet the needs of that territory and the people living in it. Since then, these budgets must think of Galicia today, its problems and its present needs, with a short-term look in the future to meet as soon as possible, but also in the long term to lay the foundation for that economic and social change of the future that we need so much. You are presenting budgets with a lot of publicity and propaganda, as they usually do, but you don't use all the resources at your disposal to care for people, to care for economic sectors, to serve public services and to get out together as unequal as possible of this serious triple crisis. With these budgets, you don't lay the groundwork for changing the productive structure of our country, for achieving a greener and more cohesioned Galicia socially and territorially. You announce a budget, Mr. Counsellor, as the highest in the history of Galician Union, and you know perfectly well what a lie. The consolidated budget of the Galician Union decreases by 279 million euros... you give it to the head; therefore, the data that facilitates the opposition groups should not be the same as you handle, because, indeed, if we do the rest, it is 279 million euros less in the consolidated budget. So it decreases, it doesn't grow. You announce that these budgets have the greatest resources in history to support families and economic sectors. But the reality is that you in social protection and integration programmes, benefits to families and children, social services for the elderly and disabled, support for conciliation and youth services are down EUR 42 million. [[Applause]] Nor does it seem to be greater support for families when you in employment promotion programmes, improvement in employment qualifications or improvement in the organization and administration of labour relations and the social economy also fall 43 million euros. Nor does it seem that they are the greatest resources in history when we talk about health care, because nothing more and nothing less than in primary care and in the protection and promotion of public health are down 8 million euros. Eight million euros less in health care, while more than seven hundred thousand euros are spent on fifty-two chapels. And they don't renew about four hundred and thirty health professionals who need the system, and they don't reverse the working conditions of precariousness in some categories. [[Applause]] You, Counsellor, twelve years later, give 200 million euros less for health than they were in 2009. And in primary care today there are 1,000 professionals less than the amount recorded in the government accounts of Emilio Pérez Touriño. Don't you hear the street? Didn't you see the demonstration of thousands of people against dismissal and precarious public health that went out on the street last Sunday here in Santiago? For they should meet the street, they should look after the people who demand that they stop being cautious, that all this precaution is reversed with the funds coming from the state and the European Union, in which you have sunk during the great recession. And you can still say that they are the greatest resources in history for families, but the reality, Mr. Counsellor, is that in education, in special teachings, secondary education and vocational training and more complementary services and aids of teaching are also lower, 15.4 million euros less. And you must think that supporting the economic sectors is downgrading the Programme to support modernization, internationalisation and improving competitiveness, innovation and production by EUR 67 million. Or EUR 12 million less in the Information and Knowledge Society. Well, then, Counselor, another lie. The social expenditure and employment policies of the Galician Union for 2022 is at least EUR 176 million less!, no more, no less. So -- as I was telling you at first -- a lot of publicity and a lot of propaganda -- one thing you say and another thing you do. And they lie again. You also announce that there is less income from the state, more tax rebates, less debt, but the biggest budget in history. Well, the truth is, you don't need to be an economist to see that something might not be possible. If budgets are less revenue plus debt, if income doesn't grow and debt doesn't, because it's impossible to increase expenditure. Isn't that right, Counselor? I think so, obviously. If you don't, you'll explain. Okay, okay, yeah, then, I guess. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if we look at the documents that you bring together with the budget, we can look at the funds that come from the state and the funds that come from the European Union. And within the funds that come from the state, aside from autonomous funding -- which will have its debate at its own time and which seems to us a very interesting and very necessary debate -- because we have to, on the one hand, come EUR 368 million to compensate for that negative settlement of the year 2020; EUR 211 million to compensate for the deployment approved by the Government of Mariano Rajoy in the 2017 VAT, and an increase -- that you also put in the documents approaching us -- of 24.4% of the final transfers. And I would like to say, for example, that the state comes to EUR 53 million more attention to the community's dependence and social services, EUR 65 million more for the promotion of employability and vocational training for the unemployed, EUR 57 million more for infrastructure and education, and EUR 28 million for access and rehabilitation to housing. I mean, they grow thanks to state funds finalist games on priority themes for Greek citizenship thanks to these transfers that you say they don't come from the state. And if we look at revenue from the European Union, because we have EUR 508 million from the recovery and resilience framework, EUR 249 million from the React-EU and EUR 804 million from the multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020, which you still have to run today. Therefore, EUR 1,561 million from the European Union that you are considering in this budget. And it is also worth recalling the announcement that the multi-year financial mechanism 2021-2027 has already been approved, which is going to suppose to Galicia 3,150 million euros plus 111 million euros to deal with the fair transition, being the second most beneficial community behind Andalusia, and of which, of course, we feel happy and we fully agree. These funds arrive, Counselor, to Galicia despite the People's Party; despite the fact that his head of ranks, Mr. Married, tried again and again that these resources had not reached Spain and therefore had not reached Galicia. By Pablo Casado and you, with your complicit silence, would not reach, at least, the EUR 757 million recorded in this budget for our autonomous community. Well, Counsellor, looking for resources and bringing them closer together to be useful to people and productive sectors is how that love is shown to "Gallicia, Galicia, Galicia."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u53	Yes, I'm done now, Mr. President. The fact is that it is also worth highlighting that visit that President Feijóo has just had to Brussels, where he went to take out a selfi with the Manneken Pis, dressed as a pilgrim. This seems to have been the big deal that just got Mr. President of Galicia. And, by the way, Counselor, you said this morning that the increase in the staff of the office that is set up in the budgets was to manage the funds. Then I'd like you to clarify... yes, that's what I understood...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u54	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u55	...and I think you said it in the morning, because there are specific sections for the recruitment of external counseling and technical assistance. It's the sum of the two and everything for both, they don't have enough staff to manage them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u57	I hope you clarify me in your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u58	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u59	In this turn, for my part, nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u60	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Angela Davis once said, "This is a very exciting moment in history, more and more people recognize that the world must change." I'm convinced, we're convinced by the BNG that most society shares this intuition. And brought to today's debate, they're going to ask us a question that should be mandatory for us in every budget debate. That question is when we are in history and whether these budgets and their proposals respond to needs. It's important that we do this X-ray because we're not at any point today. We're not at any time, first, because when the project of the Greek Government comes into force in the year 2022, we'll take twenty-two months -- which is said soon -- of the pandemic, of a pandemic that is controlled, but that's still with us, that has effects, and that has many unknowns as well. We're not at any time because when this budget project comes into force, we'll continue to be in a situation of increasingly serious climate and energy emergencies. And we're not at any time either because when these budgets come into force we will continue to drag the inequalities that generated the 2009 economic crisis and its management. And we'll also remain in a political framework that -- they want to recognize it or not -- condition, and much, our economic self-government, and that also limits our ability to make decisions. So, since BNG we insist: we're not at any time. We're at a decisive time as a country. And the problem is that these budgets, Mr. Corgos, offer neither the slightest possibility nor the opportunity to make any change. We saw him in the debate this morning. If the 2021 budgets pointed to a line that we defined as a missed opportunity, these 2022 budgets, the project you presented today this morning again, we understand that they sink on that line, that they sink in that wrong but conscious way of the Government of Greece, of a government that thinks Galicia is small, because it doesn't trust the country, nor does it want to change the status quo. And in view of that, since BNG, what we want to do is do something different: build a new Galician. To that end, we present an alternative amendment, both in revenue and expenditure proposals, with a proposal that basically thinks Galicia, thinks this country at large, mobilising more than two billion euros around three priorities: shielding public services, transforming the economy and responding also to climate and social emergencies. As far as income is concerned, basically what we're proposing is to do the opposite of what you do: to pay more than you have. Because your fiscal proposal, Mr. Corgos, -- we have to say this -- it's directly obscene, you can't qualify any other way. Because at a time of economic crisis, in which you know perfectly well that there are nearly seven hundred thousand Welsh people in a situation of poverty or social exclusion -- that the German Network says against poverty, it's not a fact that we're inventing from the BNG -- what if it happens to you? Well, regressive changes. The best example is that change in the IRPF, but it's just that you're self-emitting yourself to shield even higher incomes, preventing them from paying what's right. [[Applause]] But let's set an example to take that letter, those budget numbers, which are sometimes abstract, to real life. Let's think, for example, of what has increased to fill a car tank this past year, because it already costs more than 20 euros more than a year ago. The bill of light has grown about 60 percent more. And with the super-reform of the People's Party, a German or a Greek who enters about twelve thousand euros a year, he's going to have a saving of twelve euros a year. He won't even give you one of these increments. On the contrary, someone who covers ten times more will have a saving of almost 500 euros. Of course, that for us is not at all redistributive. We wonder who's going to have more difficulty in paying payments like the ones I exemplify: a galley or a galley who works in a super, who has an average salary, or a galley who covers more than you or the president of the board? Because an income of more than a hundred thousand euros is more than you or the president of the board charge. [[Applause]] And those are the social minorities you want to privilege. And even if they come in disguise these sheep's fur budgets, we know that what they really want to do is what they did in the previous crisis, which is to make Robin Hood upside down and give even more to those who have the most. That's what hides the tax model of the People's Party. And in view of that, what we propose is to turn it around. We have moved in this amendment to the whole of a proposal for a truly redistributive reform of the IRPF, of the property tax and also of successions and prayers. On the other hand, we also do what you don't do, which is to squeeze out the limited framework we have to develop our own regulatory capacity. We propose the creation of three new taxes. We insist that the large surfaces should be recorded, not because we're subscribers -- as we were told in the morning -- to the corticoles, but because we want to have resources to protect small trade. [[Applause]] Secondly, we also mark a line of betting for green taxation, for recording, for example, the high-voltage lines and the environmental damage they have. Or, for example, by addressing through new taxes very serious problems, such as penalizing permanent and unjustified unemployment of housing for more than two years. Because there's a brutal increase in the price of renters, in front of what the German Government inhibits functions; there's a brutal increase in residential exclusion, and you can't keep looking the other way. [[Applause]] And thirdly and with regard to tax matters, we also propose the modification of the wind cannon. Because you in these budgets amend for the tenth time the Law of the wind sector; it's a classic already of the People's Party's budgetary laws. But surprisingly, despite the fact that the wind cannon declines every year of collection, you don't decide to play there. You know it's not our model, that we would like to bet -- as we did on your day -- by direct public participation in the benefits of the sector. We don't like this model. But, in any case, we have included this amendment to point out the reality, which is that the tax policy of the People's Party Government favours electric lobbies. That's why despite the fact that Galicia has just hit a wind power generation record again, despite the increasing number of facilities in our country, they collect less from the wind cannon, because they don't dare touch power instead of the number of air carriers, pushing a change like what they demand from municipalities or entities as legitimized as the Galego Wind Observatory. [[Applause]] In short, Mr. Corgos, we propose a new fiscal policy, which basically protects the majority of society and intervenes in the most serious problems in this country, such as the lack of housing or the environmental crisis, and thus doing something that is very necessary in this context. You were already Vaticaning us that turn that you already recognize the open tomb: the path of the deficit. Indeed, that will happen, these extraordinary resources that, apparently, according to some intervention here -- we have the work and grace of Mr. Sánchez. We don't share that thesis. But, in any case, those extraordinary resources are finite and, therefore, this country has to prepare itself for where we're going to draw economic resources when we don't have those incomes that camouflage these budgets as if they were extraordinary when they aren't. And we therefore propose these measures to increase resources. In any case, the alternative -- it's what we have to think about most -- we think it's also about the distribution of which are those expenditure priorities. And you're wrong there too. And in the face of a proposal that you base on inertia and lack of ambition, we included forty-six new priorities that were non-existent in your project and that basically want these measures to drive a new economic model. A new economic model that modernises the strategic productive sectors, which are based on science, innovation and which seeks to create quality jobs and place our country in a context of a globalized economy, in a position that is really strong. A new economic model that puts our country in addition to the vanguard of the response to the climate and energy crisis and that seeks to achieve and armor social rights and achieve more equality between the Greeks and the Greeks. Basically, by summaries, I will focus on three areas: The first of them, the need to strengthen and armor public services. Indeed, this budgetary debate cannot be given as if we were not still in the middle of a pandemic. And the first of the emergencies is to get the public health system out of the ICU to which you took it. How? By hiring more personnel and doing so in a dignified manner; that we should not read in this country, like this week, never again a sentence that removes the colors from the largest ETT in Galicia, which is and is still Sergas. By also reinforcing primary care, because it's indecent not only to lower the budget this year, but to continue to be lower primary care budgeting in 2009. [[Applause]] We insist: it's indecent above all that you have behind it, because it's a roadmap planned to go slowly slimming it down and that happens in the near future what happens because, for example, when a Welshman or a Galician has to put on an orthodontic, that the public system doesn't provide it and if you want to pay it, and if you can't pay it you don't have it. They want to take the primary care model to that situation, and we certainly do not agree. We also propose to treat as appropriate such important areas as mental health and such outstanding areas as recovering all those appointments and interventions that have been postponed and that have not yet recovered. And also, of course, we have to talk about social policy. We need to talk about a social policy that we aspire to be worthy of such a name, and not what is currently happening with that council, which basically serves to drain public resources for the private sector. That's why we introduced proposals to clearly bet on the public management of new residences and innovative measures as a home strategy for implementing proximity services or expanding SAF. We understand that we must also shield public education, correct those cuts, which are obvious, and from those that have just removed the Board of Auditors again the colors. In the morning, they didn't dare discuss the data, I suppose they'll continue to ignore that reality. We propose a public education agreement that compromises at least the creation and staffing of a thousand teachers a year. Secondly, the other big area we want to insist on is to transform our economy around -- we insist -- science and innovation. Because to position this country in a context of the globalized economy there are two options: the People's Party model, which is basically to give away our resources, especially our natural resources, the foreign capital to exploit them and then go down the Persian. That's the People's Party model. Or bet on the model we want to push from the BNG, which is to take advantage of our resources in favour of the Greeks and the Greeks and invest in knowledge. Because this crisis has also shown that the alternative is science, science and more science. In this direction we put forward proposals in three areas: The first one, multiplying -- we insist -- the investor effort in research. We propose a Greek science pact that has 3% of the budget, 300 million euros. Secondly, we understand that it is key to boosting an industrial fabric, an economic fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises oriented to innovation in strategic sectors. To that end, we propose a plan for the promotion of technological activity aimed at raising industry's weight to 25 % of gross domestic product by 2030. We intend to start the Rías project to form Europe's largest technological complex in relation to the sea. And we also propose a single R & D+I plan for the primary sector, for the agricultural, livestock and forestry sectors, to modernise our most important productive sectors. And thirdly, within economic transformation, we understand that we must also take care of the emergencies, which are there and many. On the one hand, -- we insist -- it's unheard of that in this country there hasn't yet been a galley table for energy to address cross-sectionally all the problems in that area. And we insist on something that they didn't dare answer this morning: Alcoa's public participation, it's incorporated in our amendment, what are they going to do?, will they continue to press the red button as they did last week about other important initiatives for this country's industry? Will they repeat that same mistake again in that budgetary debate? Today morning you appealed to consensus and generosity. They finally do something of consensus and generosity that they haven't had in these years of government and support some of the opposition's proposals. [[Applause]] Finally, the third big area that brings together our alternative amendments seeks to respond to the climate emergency and also social situation in this country, aiming to have a more sustainable Galicia and also with more social rights. Social rights that must revolve around housing, employment or equality. For this, it takes a Welsh agenda for environmental emergency, with truly ambitious measures against climate change and for the defense of biodiversity, as well as a Greek water strategy 2030, which finally prioritizes the defense and care and custody of a resource that is absolutely essential. We have also introduced measures to reduce job insecurity, which is the result of the impoverishment of society, and above all to address emergencies. In this sense, we formulate a Greek employment strategy 2025, with particular attention to women and youth, for being the most punished sectors of this crisis. And also measures to address the serious problem of access to decent housing. And last but not least, we would like to mention the proposal to allocate one euro per cent to fight against violence. It would be nice if at the doors of November 25, we would apply that claim that we will hear in the streets by basic Greek feministism, which is that of "less speeches and more resources." And I'm done now, Counselor. We have concluded from the BNG or we think that, indeed, the one experienced in the last twenty-two months has shown that social inequality or the climate crisis are absolutely unsustainable. So what Angela Davis said about "the world must change" is more modern than ever. And for that, they must also change the policies of the Greek Government, which worsen the problems we had yesterday and worsen the ones we have today. We insist: we are in a key moment, in a moment of profound transformations in the world. And that for Galicia represents risks, also opportunities. That's why we think it's time to do what we've been proposing in this budgetary debate, what we propose in this amendment, and so close to the People's Party, which is to think of Galicia as big. So you dare, you vote in favour of this BNG proposal and you correct the big mistakes in these budgets. They dare to think of that large Galician one, with which we would have a more prosperous future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Corgos López-Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u62	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks for your intervention, certainly interesting. I would also like to confront as we did in the morning some of the statements that have just been made. First of all, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo started by indicating that budgets collect the same shares and identical programs year after year. What varies in budgets is accounts and projects, of course, but spending programs do have a direct relation to the competences of the autonomous community and therefore it doesn't make much sense that they change from year to year, and the games are the same. It's important to make this clear. Not changing spending programs from year to year favors the comparability of spending policies between governments and others. So, today, by analyzing the different spending policies, we can look at what are the differences in the orientation of the different policies between budgets that we presented in the Chamber in 2022 and the budgets that, for example, were presented in 2009. In health care, for example, we see that in function 41 there are 817 million more. Or in education, that we can see how there are nearly 300 million more. Also another game that was marked right here, 56, "Investigation and Development and Innovation", was EUR 142 million in 2009, and in this budget it has a budget of EUR 259.7 million. Therefore, comparability and rigour in the comparison of costs. Approaches and budgetary resources for autonomous communities. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo was also talking about the different way out of the crisis. I explained this morning that the great financial crisis is not comparable to the pandemic crisis. But to come here is shown in accordance with the allocation of the funds and the rest of the funds which the General Government of the State has allocated during 2020 and during 2021 is more than questionable, because Galicia is not exactly one of the autonomous communities that can be considered to benefit from the criteria for the distribution of this kind of funds. They rarely came to the considerations requested by the Galician Government of Galicia in respect of the criteria for the allocation of these funds. And even the hedged fund of the year 2021 must be remembered that it was originally distributed according to GDP, which was very protested by the Galician Union, to end up being distributed according to the adjusted population, as requested by the Autonomous Community. But overall, in the years 2020-2021 we know that there are more than 600 million euros of difference between a fair distribution based on adjusted population, for example, and the actual distributions made by the Government of Mr Sánchez. Accounts for people. Of course the budgets and all that we're here are what moves us to lend goods and services to people; it can't be any other way. What happens is that these accounts must be taken into account in reality, because we have to fund the different spending policies and because this funding and these policies must be sustainable over time. That's why we refer to rigor in the accounts, but not because we're not always thinking about what citizens need in every spending policy, the citizens of Galicia. As for the rise and fall of the budgets, it also points out the Socialist Party that the budgets go down, but elsewhere in their interventions this morning also said they were going up. We're not very clear whether they go up or down, according to their criteria. First they say that the budget only grows by 0.56 %, 64 million non-financial spending on 2021, but then, if we look at the consolidated budget, they're going down by 2.36, they're just pointing out now. And as soon as they grow in respect of this year thanks to the funds coming from the Government of the State and the European Union. It's funny that he defends one thing and so does the opposite. I'll tell you something: next year, the Greeks are going to have for the second consecutive year an budget that's the highest in Galicia's history, which is going to increase by 6.9 % higher than the actual year, measuring the non-financial expenditure, which is the expenditure that can be devoted to the provision of public goods and services. It doesn't make any sense to include here the game that's going to fund the amortised debt, that this year is certainly less than last year. As for advertising spending and budget propaganda, every year they talk about propaganda, and I think it's good to analyze what advertising spending is. The advertising expenses next year come down again, as they do every year since we presented the budgets. In 2022, advertising and advertising expenditure fell by 18.6% compared to 2021. By the way, it's about sixty-five lower than you had in 2009. This is the advertising and propaganda of budgets. She's the only one who can find you. [[Applause]] And then they also continued in their exhibition talking about the finalist funds of the state's general budgets, which if the negative settlement, if the EV of 211 million euros, if the finalists of the state. Negative liquidation is the solution to a mess in which the current government has put us in, and not changing the financing system or not except how the safeguard clause applies in the European Union's budgets. All we can do is make up for it, as the Autonomous Community of Galicia has already called for in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council of last year. The €211 million VAT is paid to captivating people, because Galicia has won a sentence, if not, it wouldn't be here this game. And, by the way, here we are now discussing whether the hedge fund that was approved at the Congress of Deputies is funding itself with the same match that the sentence will be paid for. You'll see! We don't care, we have the sentence in our hand and we're going to demand its execution. [[Applause]] It continues to talk about the final funds of the State, which grow when Airef's own report, which assesses the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, indicates that they fall by 5 %. And then it includes the React-EU recovery and resilience mechanism funds that come from the European Union, in addition to a highly questionable distribution, both in the recovery and resilience mechanism, which -- as I said this morning -- should be shared with equitable criteria to ensure a coherent exit from the crisis and, in any case, inversely proportional to per capita income, and the React-EU, which has a breakdown in which the Government of Galicia has also repeatedly protested because we have only been allocated 4.1% of the 10,000 million euros allocated to autonomous communities, with more than questionable criteria, which, of course, will not help a coherent recovery of the crisis. As far as the funds of the new multiannual financial framework are concerned, they were incredibly communicated at the end of September, when they were already known for several months what figures were assigned to the Kingdom of Spain by the European Union, and are not collected in budgets. The operational programmes could not even be drawn up because we must wait for the General Administration of the State to present the association agreement before the European Union. But we're already working on these operating programs, and they will be presented immediately as soon as the aforementioned association agreement is approved. As far as the tax proposal we make is concerned, it is indeed a proposal that affects all taxpayers with a progressive tax on the income of natural persons, it affects all sections of it, but the reduction in the tax rate only affects sections of less than 60,000 euros, i.e. we lower the marginal rate to all types, except those of 60,000 euros. As we said earlier, it affects a lot of average income. Today morning I made an example of a case, like what is done in any tax school in the world, and you could see that great rich people, such as public health workers or teachers, with their model would be affected by a rise in taxes, and with us they would benefit from it. This morning we had the opportunity to debate and confront the models of economic policy, and we could contrast that there are different positions, as is logical. Obviously, this must not be incompatible with the effort to bring up positions on certain issues in order to enrich the project under parliamentary procedure. But, of course, after analyzing the cross-sectional amendments of opposition groups, it's very difficult to reach agreements, because they are based on premises that cannot be met. Some of the proposals seem very interesting but must be feasible, they must be feasible both by income and by expenditure; that is, we must also consider what is their source of funding. I'll explain: there are several objective reasons for the Government to be unable to accept these proposals. First of all, the first rejection of the German Government is the rise in taxes on citizens, which is something in which the two opposition groups coincide, although with different intensity -- as I said earlier -- the Parliamentary Group of the BNG and that of the PSdEG. We regret that the revenue of nationalists and socialists every year is the same, raising taxes on citizens and businesses. The Government of Greece bets just on the contrary, by lowering taxes so that all the Greeks and the Greeks can increase private spending, and thus help the sectors most affected by the health crisis. As for specific amendments, there are also other cases of impossibility to take them into practice. Many of the shares that come to play are finalist or funded from European funds, which have accepted funding and therefore cannot be deducted from the allocations in which they are to finance other expenditure that are of a different nature. In other cases they eliminate specific projects or resources for the administration's operation and the provision of public services, when this administration is an example of an austere management of public services. The first thing I want to make clear to you is the refusal of the German Government to raise taxes on citizens. Let's start with the PSdEG. This group is taxed at EUR 171.5 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSdeG, your amendments amount to EUR 141 million for the taxes that already exist, and EUR 30.5 million for the new tax figures. Our model is different: we try to reduce taxes always with the intensity that allows the economic environment, and, of course, we try not to raise them. In addition, we believe that this is not the time to raise taxes on the Greeks. Do you really think that the generalized increase in prices we're living, especially in energy, is a suitable time to increase taxes at the moment? We -- I insist -- no. That's why we've tried new reductions in IRPF, but also in transmissions and heritage, and we've consolidated the important tax reductions that we already have in successions and with zero-tax strategy in rural, of which more than seven hundred and twenty thousand Greeks and Greeks have already benefited. And the German Government -- Reiterate -- doesn't consider this to be the time to raise taxes. We analyzed one by one the tax measures proposed by PSdG: They ask the Greeks to pay 20.4 million euros more in IRFI. We don't agree. What if I have to recognize them is their coherence, because they propose exactly the same measure as last year; it seems that nothing has changed. So we can't know how they calculate their impact. I would like to ask you a question: for socialists from 50,000 euros a citizen can be considered rich, even if he has several children? We don't think so. The German Government thinks otherwise and believes that the best solution right now is that all citizenship pays less IRPF so that increased private spending can help the sectors most affected by the crisis. The previous reductions -- because I remember that it's the third in eight years -- have shown that the released resources will stimulate greater employment and higher collection. That's what the data believes. Since 2015, the year before the fall in the 2016 rate, and until the 2019 income campaign, the IRPF declarants have grown by more than seventy-nine thousand, and the collection has increased by twenty-six percent. By next year, we're setting up a new scale with types below the state and we're lowering the types -- as I've already said -- in all sections, except those of 60,000 euros, to benefit all contributors. I would like to point out that this is a progressive reduction in progressive taxation. Only with this new discount, which is the third in eight years, will a home of two contributors save an average of 144 euros. With the three reductions approved for 2014, each Greek contributor will save an average of EUR 403 in 2022. They ask that the Greeks pay 28.1 million euros more in the property tax, and we don't agree either. They propose again an amendment identical to last year's amendment. In this case, we must remind you, on the one hand, that this community lacks regulatory competence to change the amount exempt from habitual housing, which -- as you know -- is located in EUR 300,000 per declarant. On the other hand, we have to point out that Galicia currently has the prevailing rate in the state and that it is exactly the same as the two-party government applied between 2005 and 2009. But by 2022, we have set a 25% quota bonus, because we aim to adapt to the countries around us. I also want to remind you -- as I said this morning -- that the PSOE, with the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, has abolished this tax. They call for an increase in €65 million in the collection of inheritance tax, capital tax and documented legal acts, but without a basis for obtaining these increases. We can't accept it. And here I want to stop, because I don't know if they realize there's a novelty in this amendment about last year. The reason is that the PSOE has dealt with an anti-fraud law, an anti-fraud law against which the Greek Parliament and the Galician Civil Rights Commission have pronounced, because it penalises the inheritances in life. By the way, a legal change that generated an important alarm between the Greek society. In fact, a bilateral commission is open between the Central Government and the Galician Union on this issue. Does this amendment mean they're going to give us the reason or answer that it's the product of a cut and take last year? We don't know that well, I'm afraid it's the second case. And that's why I want to point out the incongruence of your group, which in the Congress of Deputies penalizes the inheritances in life and goes against Galicia's own right, and in the Autonomic Parliament they present an amendment to include more income, justified in a supposed higher collection of a legal formula that penalises. We hope we don't have to go to the Constitutional Court to defend it. Their explanation is that these calculations are based on the known figures and liquidations of previous periods, and taking into account their foreseeable evolution in a context in which life inheritances derived from covid-19 are possible. I insist: exactly the same explanation as the previous exercise. So let me say that the answer of the German Government is the same. As for the figures and liquidations, which are already known as the year, I have to make a clarification that is already recurrent, because they make that inaccuracy every year. We're talking about recognized rights. In this amount, the amounts from previous years are also included, either because the Tax Administration has granted payment approvals, income fractions, either because the income was suspended or because it is in voluntary payment period, as established by the autonomous rules are annulled at the end of the exercise, so they cannot be taken as a reference to fix the provision for each exercise's collection. With regard to the inheritances in life, which they now want to penalize, there have been since Galician Civil Law Act 1995, it is not a novelty, and their taxation is provided for in the impact of succession tax and prayers. With regard to property transmission tax and documented legal acts, as reflected in the Income Memory delivered to this Chamber, the evolution of economic activity is already being taken into account, with an expected rebound in both the number of operations and their value, and also taking into account the cost of the reduction of the general rate of the one-percent, 10 % to 9 % property transmission modality, in order to accompany the dynamisation that is taking place in the real estate market. Finally, they call for taxes to be raised to the Greeks by EUR 30.5 million more, this time with the creation of three new tributes. In particular, three new taxes are required, exactly the same as they were proposed last year. They're one over large commercial surfaces, another over installations that affect the environment like telephony, telematics and lines of transport and electricity, and another over the emission of harmful gases to the atmosphere. One more year we must make a prior warning: before examining each new tax we have to clarify that the initiative to create new taxes should not be taken lightly, because any tax figure is incarnated in the tax system and produces effects that must be studied and discussed. Therefore, any proposal must be accompanied by a justification and an analysis of its implications. They intend again to raise six million euros with an autonomous tax on large surfaces. His proposal is not accompanied by justifiable memory of any of the object of purpose of the tax that will be created, either of the configuration of its essential elements, or of the consequences of its implementation. In order to analyze its viability, it should be pointed out what the claim is. We also don't know how they calculate the economic impact, so we can't get into their valuation either. They intend again to collect 18 million euros with taxes on installations affecting the environment, such as telephony and new lines of electricity transport. In this case, we also don't know how they calculate this amount. That's why if we went to other autonomous communities that have implemented it, with the approved tax rates, the collection would range from 1 to 2 million euros, and you plan 18 million. So it doesn't seem advisable to set up a new tax on this count, on account of 1 and 2 million euros, of course. In addition, it must be borne in mind that, in view of the recent judgments of the Supreme Court, it must be assessed whether it is appropriate to establish tax figures which may have an impact on the final consumer, especially on the price level of the energy sector that we are currently having. And they want to raise, like last year, 6.5 million euros with a tax on the emission of harmful gases to the atmosphere. In this case too, we do not know how the amount is calculated; nor do we clarify what harmful gases are intended to be recorded. In this regard, I would like to remind you that in Galicia, there is already a tax on its own topping the contaminants to the atmosphere applicable since 1996, the air pollution tax. In addition, I would like to make it clear that the expansion of the taxable amount of this tax to any other substance recorded in other autonomous communities would not report at all a figure such as that proposed by EUR 6.5 million. I remind you that ICA's current collection is one million euros. Also on this occasion, we have to reject the increase that they propose of the current recording by the use of corred water, to raise 6.5 million euros. Its form of action does not take account of the nature of the recording, because it is an environmental tax. An extra fiscal tribute directed to correction and compensation for environmental impact. Therefore, it cannot be modified solely for purposes of collection. It's more: adding another kind of taxable facts in this type of tribute is endangering the very existence of the tribute. As for the minorities, I'll explain why they can't be done as far as they propose. As I have already made progress, I must warn you that some amendments are impossible to accept because they could not be implemented. I am referring to those which are mainly financed by European funds or by final funds from the State, which cannot be used for the alternative they propose. Other amendments cannot be considered because they reduce appropriations for operating costs. Some games that we already have very adjusted -- as I said -- put them down further or eliminate them would put attention and public service at risk to citizenship. Let's go with specific cases, as we are told: Reduce any personnel costs. As I say, it's common, but with the background of the bipartisan government and the socialists where they rule, it's more than surprising. They should have more memory. In 2009 in Galicia they constituted the most expensive government in history, and in the central government, as soon as they could, they presented a new budget; the PSOE again constituted the most expensive government in the history of Spain. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the data, let's look at it: 13 years later the spending on senior positions in potential staff is significantly lower than that of the two-party government, and with a substantially lower budget, specifically about 20 percent less. It's surprising the PSdEG proposal, because it just asks for the opposite of what they do. And to show you a button: Pedro Sánchez's government has increased personnel costs eventually nothing more and nothing less than 49% in relation to the last one. I don't know if there were any amendments to Congress -- as I said before -- to the expense of high office and possible staff of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, which is -- I insist -- the most expensive in Spain's history. A little seriousness and coherence, please! As I asked before for the purpose of the cabinet members that serve to strengthen the execution of the recovery mechanism, of course, these people or this person, because neither can we speak of people, at most will be one per section, what they must do is to direct and monitor the proper execution of the expenses financed by the recovery and resilience mechanism. To manage them are the officials of each administrative section. It's also recurrent that they ask to reduce expenses in splits we've already allocated less than half the average of the previous government. Again, I remind you of updated data: spending on office materials, we have lowered it by more than fifty-one percent since 2009; spending on the press, books, magazines and other publications, 51.3% below; spending on protocol care decreased by more than fifty-one percent; spending on meetings, ongoing conferences, decreasing by more than forty-nine percent; spending on advertising and advertising fell by more than sixty-five percent. All this without including IPC. I think they are sufficiently clear examples of our policy. On the one hand, transfers to entities as well as the City of Culture Foundation, the waters of Galicia... but you don't approach these organisms, so you don't see the cost of the opportunity of the policies they're implementing. As I said, they propose to reduce resources from other administrations with finalist funding, such as energy efficiency, protection and improvement of the natural environment, conservation of biodiversity or improvements in equipment in educational centres. They'll understand we can't accept them. And let's see now how they increase their proposed expenditure. One of the most surprising issues is that the PSdEG claims a hidden fund for the municipalities, and the socialists deny this fund to the autonomous communities. They ask for a fund for local corporations, but they deny a fund for self-government communities, which have competences most directly linked to the pandemic crisis, such as health, education and social policy. In this sense, last week they voted against this possibility again in Congress, despite the fact that this proposal had the majority support of the Lower House. And it's also significant that the PSdEG calls for more resources for local authorities when the next year's budget is what's closest to the entire history of the Autonomous Community, more than four hundred and eighty-eight million euros, with an increase in just one year of 20%. Continuing their proposals, they then repeat a technique that consists of dedicating the same amount to different health centres, 300,000 euros to all without distinction, regardless of their size, characteristics and liquidation. It's a kind of everything to 300,000. And repeat this procedure in the case of day centers, in this case we are before a total of 200,000. Chascarrillos apart, I think the planning of health centres deserves greater rigour and priority needs. The distribution that socialists make to pachas is done by anyone. The Government of Greece allocates the appropriate amount according to the phase in which each project is to be found. That's why we designed a realistic and credible budget. On the other hand, for the next year, the PSdeG proposes that road safety should be left with virtually no resources, because it removes 92 % -- yes, well heard: 92 % -- from the games dedicated to this end. We know that the central government wants to impose taxes on the highways, does that mean they also want to penalize the autonomous roads with fees for their conservation? We don't know, fortunately we won't. And another year, in the pursuit of minimizing the bottom of health continuances, reduces it in its minimal expression. Again they want to avoid any margin of maneuver for unforeseen occurrences in an essential area like health and in circumstances like the ones we're living in. They also propose a German plan against poverty, totally according to this matter, as it could not be otherwise. But I would like to remind you that Junta already has strategic planning tools for measures aimed at people who need it most, framed in the social strategy for inclusion of Galicia and the Single Social Agenda, and the operational projects to finance them with budget splits by 2022. And finally they come back with plans ads like the return plan, which they assign to the same content as last year. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have in our budgets a EUR 5 million set aside for actions such as the Comprehensive Office for Advice and Follow-up of the Return, which pays global and unified attention to the returned Welsh people and their families towards their effective integration. The way of conclusion repeats in a ninety-five percent the game proposals to increase, but the amounts are lower than last year's for the same actions. And all this in a context of budgets whose non-financial expenditure increases by 752 million euros. They'll understand we couldn't accept their amendments. And we're going with BNG's proposals. BNG's voice must also be told that, of course, we are against raising taxes to the Greeks in 123 million euros, as your intention is. We're also going to examine one by one your tax proposals: They demand that the Greeks pay 27 million euros more for IRPF. We don't agree. In addition, you propose increases from EUR 120,000 in this amendment, but curiously in the partial amendments you extend your IRPF -- if we don't read it wrong -- to rents from EUR 35,200. And it looks like they're getting their taxes up to half-income, doesn't it? But I repeat the statement to the PSdG group: at this moment we want all Greeks to pay less IRPF, so that all citizenship contributes to the increased private spending helping sectors most affected by the crisis on a priority basis and economic reactivation as a whole. They also demand that the Greeks pay 20 million euros more for the tax of successions and prayers. We don't agree either. And I also have to warn you that in this case they do not indicate the change they propose, so it is not possible to verify the impact calculated by their group. With remittances approved both in 2016 and in 2020, our goal is to keep the family heritage and the economic capacity of a family when a direct family member dies. It's a measure that has already benefited nearly five hundred seventy-seven thousand Welsh, and we want to increase this number. They demand that the Greeks pay 30 million euros more for the estate tax. I'm already referring to the position of the German Government on this tax in response to the PSdeG. But it is not indicated, in addition, in the BNG proposal on the reduction of the minimum exemption and lifting of recording types, what would be the minimum exemption or the rate to be applied, so it is not possible to assess whether the impact it calculates is correct. Similarly, we cannot accept the amendment proposed by the wind canon to raise 25 million more euros, with a supposed change in the tax structure considering the power of air carriers as taxable. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I have to explain to you is that the taxable fact of the wind cannon is the generation of adverse visual and environmental perceptions and impacts on the natural environment and on the territory. And the second is that the modification of the tax structure of a tax already established must comply with the same restrictions as for its creation and, therefore, an analysis of the purpose pursued and its adequacy to the applicable legality must be made. Finally, by not justifying your proposal or by pointing out what kind of taxation they intend to establish, aside from sustaining that the taxable deed is the power, it can hardly be valued. With this modification they are again endangering the existence of the wind cannon. Finally, they demand that the Greeks pay 21 million euros more for the creation of three new taxes: on empty dwellings, on large commercial surfaces and on high-voltage networks. In relation to the autonomous tax on empty dwellings, the BNG proposal -- as with other taxes -- is not accompanied by justifiable memory of any of the object and purpose of the tax that will be created, nor by the configuration of its essential elements, nor by the consequences of its implementation. Only the impact of the new fiscal measure is quantified in EUR 10 million. Curiously, a year ago, they proposed to collect more than three times as much, 36 million euros. What's changed? It's a substantial difference. We can't know because -- as I've already said -- they don't do a rigorous analysis of this proposal. In Galicia two years ago Law 1/2019, of 22 April, of rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal of Galicia, which regulates the canon of the buildings that are declared in state of abandonment by the IGVS. The property is expected to be recorded at 0,6 % on the cadastral value in case it has been declared to be destroyed and 0,4 % in the rest of the cases. In addition, the cannon increases by 10 percent per year in a state of abandonment. However, the quota will be fined at 90 percent for people at risk of social exclusion. The revenues obtained were devoted to rehabilitation actions in the Rexurbe area, where the properties declared abandoned were located. The Greek Government bets on this model and not on a new tax, where the BNG does not explain its purpose and that one year intends to collect an amount and the next year three times less. As for the creation of a tax on large surfaces, I refer to what I just pointed out regarding the PSdeG proposal. Finally, on high-voltage networks, the BNG does the opposite of the empty housing, because it increases its proposal for collection about last year, and we move from EUR 800,000 to EUR 1 million. In this case we also do not know the structure of the tax that is formulated or how the amount is calculated. But again, by looking at the tax rates of other autonomous communities, it would range from 1 to 2 million euros. With which it does not seem much wealth to establish a tax of this county, and again it would be convenient to collect an economic memory and a cost-benefit analysis of the application of this tax figure. Besides -- as I already mean --, the last rulings of the Supreme Court make it necessary to properly value fixing tax figures that can finally be passed on to the final consumer. Nor can we agree with your formulation to include 295 million additional euros for the React-EU at the moment. You make this count so significant to a central government negotiation, but it's just that all the React-EU amounts are already distributed. The React-EU -- as I said this morning -- was made up of an allocation to the Kingdom of Spain of 12,400 million euros, from which the General Administration of the State stood with 2,400 million, basically to fund the vaccines, and 10,000 million were allocated to the autonomous communities. So I don't know what negotiation we're going to push. Do you really believe that the Greek Government is going to transfer us 295 million euros more than React-EU when the total planned for Galicia in its current distribution is 411 million? We think we don't, and we think we're painting resources so we can crack down on some sort of spending policies that are fictitious and don't match reality. And then we're accused of being accountants, but it's just that we have to keep a little bit of rigour in the revenue and expenses that are proposed because, if not, we're not facing an economic problem -- that you like -- we're facing a political problem, of ideas. But -- as I said before -- spending policies have to be paid. I refer to the fact that I have already responded to the PSdeG. You were also part of the most expensive government, with higher charges, more advisors and more spending on advisors in Galician history. And I'm asking you the same thing as the PSdG: did BNG start the general state budgets to reduce any staff costs? Or do you think it's right that Pedro Sánchez raised them more than forty-nine percent? Looks like there's a little bit of double measuring stick. And the same policy takes place in immaterial spending measures, which are now halved, but still seem a lot to them. Like the PSdEG, on occasion, they seek to extract resources from shares corresponding to finalist or European funds to target them for other purposes that do not match their destination, so -- as they have already explained -- would be impossible to apply. And they're a lot of times where this technique of impossible acceptance is used. In addition, on rare occasions, they also make a recurring incorrection, which is at first a decrease in transfer actions to autonomous entities and bodies, but, however -- like the PSdEG -- then they do not adjust the budgets of those autonomous bodies, so we cannot appreciate the cost of the opportunity of their policies and amendments. Just by setting an example, this happens to the accounts of the City of Culture Foundation, the Camilo José Cela or the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, among other entities, but we could refer to more. In addition, shares for local entities are reduced by EUR 12.3 million. I understand that by 2022 this government transfers more resources to them than ever, but we do not agree to lower them. Not to mention the 4 million euro drop they propose for justice. Which seems somewhat incoherent, because the BNG in his statements always asks to reinforce justice, but in his amendments he reduces his departure. Besides, they take resources for concerted education, but I don't know if they're aware that behind this decision are the payrolls of 6,930 teachers. And they propose, however, to create only a thousand public education squares in their fabulous plan, that is, we stay in the cliff with 5,900 teacher squares, that is, for every new square that they propose to create they eliminate almost seven. There's a way BNG's got to strengthen teaching! [[Applause]] And we know that they don't like Xacobeo, but it's really not good to take resources from promotion because it brings much wealth to Galicia. They meet with the economic sectors and tell them that Xacobeo is not good for Galicia and its activities. And I don't want to extend much more, but I want to quote something where BNG and PSdeG agree: to take the money away for road conservation. You don't want BNG to fix the roads, either? Did he feel much more to pay for his conservation? It would be nice if they made it clear. Another year, the BNG wants to withdraw resources from the unions. In last year's debate, counsellor Valeriano Martínez warned them that accepting such an amendment would practically leave trade union centres out of resources. And we believe in the role of social agents in designing policies that must lead Galicia to progress. Besides, I don't understand what they want to do with Risga, because in two amendments, EUR 40 million and EUR 10 million are lower, respectively, the resources for this end. And in another one they put 50 million euros in the same budget application. Only by changing the name of Risga to Plan of Combating Poverty and creating a Welsh income of social inclusion. And as for the expected increases, very briefly some comment. The proof of the inconsistencies of their amendments is the fact that, on the one hand, they are asking for a mental health plan and, on the other hand, they diminish the departure already provided for in the Poscovid Mental Health Plan, which is provided by Sergas in 8.2 million euros. Identical strategy performs BNG when it proposes an R & D+I Plan in the agricultural sector, which deducts funds from the General Plan of R & D+I and GAIN’s R & D+I Strategy. It doesn't seem to be very serious. Finally, there are a number of amendments that remove necessary resources for the proper functioning of public services. I could put more examples, but one can already serve to understand that we can't support them. They propose a talent picking and retention program. And so far fully agreed, all that is to strengthen these matches. But it is not the cost of withdrawing public health resources, in particular essential health supplies, in order to be able to provide this service. They took 50 % of the consumables of this material. I don't know if people want to go to the health center with the gases in their pocket. I believe that these are sufficient examples to justify that we cannot implement these proposals. It's not funny to me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To finish, ladies and gentlemen. By carefully analyzing your amendments, both the BNG and the PSdEG amendments are different, but they have something in common that makes us unable to accept them. As for the increase in income, we reject them because they either rise the taxes we already have, even if not on the same counties, or create new taxes, and usually without sufficiently realising their scope and how the supposed collection is calculated. As far as spending reductions are concerned, they only coincide in one thing, by withdrawing finalist funds from the state or European funds that make amends made with these resources unfeasible, because they have a specific purpose and cannot be devoted to anything else. And in the increases in spending, without being against many, because it's always good to strengthen everything that can be done, especially fundamental public services, in some cases propose plans that are already planned and in others finance these increases in spending with funds necessary for the provision of public services to citizenship. For all these reasons and because, as is normal, we want to maintain the budgetary priorities of our model, we have to reject formulations that can affect our objectives, which are to strengthen economic recovery and strengthen the healthy growth described this morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u63	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now turn to the non-amendant parliamentary group for a period of ten minutes. Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u64	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that we are in a very curious debate, because the fact is that, theoretically, we had to debate the cross-sectional amendments that the two opposition groups presented, but these did not talk about their cross-sectional amendments, even though we could know them from the hand of the replica that the Farmer gave on those cross-sectional amendments that the opposition groups did not even present. I have to say that, after listening to the advisor's explanations, I understand that you didn't talk about your own transversal amendments. [[Applause]] And after listening to your speeches this morning and listening to the intervention of Bildu's delegate in Galicia and the Ferraz branch in northwestern Spain, I have to say that we have a negationist opposition here. [[Murmurs.]] A negationist opposition! They deny the reality of budgets, of budgets that are good for Galicia, and also deny Galicia the opportunity to go forward in this time of crisis, in this triple crisis: health, economics and the third, what is it? The one that causes us in our community the management of the Government of Spain. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you spoke of the previous crisis and the Government of Mariano Rajoy. And let me make a correction: the great recession -- as you called it -- who provoked it was a socialist government, the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero, in that management until 2011. That's the reality. It was that government, by the way, the first government in Spain who dropped the salary to all officials in our country, the first Government in Spain -- no, no, don't put your hands up -- the only government in Spain who lowered the salary to all officials in Spain and the first government that in Spain frozen the pensions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So when you speak of the great recession, remember that whoever provoked it was the Government of your party. And remember who brought Spain out of that economic crisis was the Government of Mariano Rajoy. [[Applause]] You were right about something that he said: that it's not the same thing that they govern each other. It's true, when socialists rule, they put the country in a crisis and destroy a lot of jobs, and when the People's Party rules, we get the country out of the crisis and generate jobs. Actually, it's not the same thing that they govern each other. You didn't want to talk about your cross-sectional amendments, but you did talk about the vaccination campaign. And of course, the vaccination campaign was a success of the government of the autonomous communities. The only thing the Government of Spain did was get stickers in the pallets sent by the European Union. That's the great success of your party. The success of the vaccination campaign was really rigorous management, would and would be responsible for the health services of the seventeen autonomous communities in our country. The councilman of Fairy told him: how dare you, from the ranks of the Socialist Party, speak of advisers and trusted staff? But how dare they! Go to the hemero library. : "The state's spending on fingering advisers is shot at 52% since the arrival of Pedro Sánchez." "Pedro Sánchez beats the historical record in advisers, 48.3 million euros." "The Government of the PSOE and the United Nations We can already accumulate more than 1,200 advisers per finger." [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira reads press headlines.]] [[Murmurs.]] How do you come to criticize a Galician board who has fewer advisers than when you were ruling in Galician board? They don't take the hair of people, because people don't believe in you anymore. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, apply the story. I know they don't like us telling them about the Bipartite and they're going to tell me that you were a child then. And I congratulate her, because that means you're very young; I don't. But if you don't want us to talk about what they were doing when they were ruling in the board of Galicia, let me tell you what they do now where they rule. Look, Elena Candia just told me. They have in Lugo the most expensive governments in history, in which you participate. They have it in the Town Hall and they have it in the Deputy. See if they're the most expensive: they have in the Lugo Deputy more advisers than you do in the whole province. That's the Galician Nationalist Block. You should be ashamed of them. [[Applause]] And, Mrs. Presas, something we cannot tolerate is your criticism -- not your criticism, but your party, your parliamentary group -- to our social policy. We are tremendously proud of the social policy we make. And you know why? Because we've doubled the number of social squares since we got to the government. Day centers: when you ruled, 983; today, 3,850. Squares in alzeimer centers: when you ruled, 230; today, 520. Community housing: with you there were 80; with us, 104. Houses in residences: with you, 5,500; with us, 8,000. With you it's a saying, because those are the squares that have set in motion the Government of Manuel Fraga; you haven't put anything into action. But what I want to tell you is that in bail bonds -- when you were ruling, there were 855 -- with us, 7,000 bail bonds. Biggest houses: with you, zero, not one... there was; with us, 455 squares. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Disability Squares: with you, 4,300; with us, 5,500. Total squares when the Bipartite ruled, 12,000; total squares today, 25,000, and we will continue to create more, much more! [[Applause]] Look, with us social expenditure represents 74% of the budget of the Galician Union; 74% of the expenditure allocated to health, education, social policy and active employment policies. We are tremendously proud to be the most social government in the history of our autonomy. And that's a flag that's not gonna take us off. You always talk about clippings, and I have to tell you, what clippings? But what did you cut? If budgets are spent on social expenditure, the year 2022, 600 million euros more than this year 2021!: 269 million more in health care, 179 million more in education, 126 million more in social policies and 37 million more in employment policies. Look, I'm going to tell you about your amendments, the amendments you haven't tabled. And they didn't introduce them because their work wasn't serious. You use the amendments of previous years, and we had this debate last year in this House and also in the 3rd Commission. The explanations that were given at that time the voices of the opposition groups were that the amendments were symbolic. They know they're not applicable. If we applied your amendments, the Government of Greece would close on January 1st: there would be no teachers, counsellors would not have the necessary material or human resources to function... but you give them the same because they understand that your opposition may be irresponsible and impossible opposition, because you know that they are neither able nor prepared to govern, and therefore their amendments are merely symbolic. You stop the Galician Union. They don't care about anything at all. And I want to devote the last few minutes of my intervention to the specific amendments tabled by the opposition groups. Look, the BNG Members are like the old rockers removed. They only remove recompilatory records. [[Murmurs.]] His amendments are a compendium of old successes of the Galician Nationalist Block: First. Leave the staff offices almost budgeted for advice. Second. Leave no money for the purchase of office supplies to public workers. Third. Leave without paying the salaries of the teachers of arranged education. If the Galician Nationalist Block were ruled here or we voted in favour of its amendments, on January 7th, when the boys go back to class, if they go to a concerted center, they'd find there's no teacher because the Galician Board would no longer pay their payrolls. That's the moderation of the new leadership of the Galego Nationalist Block, inspired by Bildu's moderation, too. There's a lot of references you have! Look, you draw attention because you're talking about a big fund of primary care and, at the same time, there's funding left for the primary care of other games. So what they put on one side is they take the other. You guys are doing a bad game that ultimately tries to fool everyone. Look, to create this fund, you're laminating the functioning of half of Galicia's public services and you want to put an end to all public buildings: they eliminate all investments in tourism -- you see that the campaign of "Racha co Xacobeo" has returned -- they close all the dependent cultural foundations of the Galician Union, they lick the investments in accessibility for people with special needs, they block all the energy and fuel expenditure from public buildings -- they're cold! --, cancel the expenses in the security and cleaning of public buildings and even close the Emergency Galician Agency. Here everyone who gets caught! Ladies and gentlemen, if we had listened to them, you'd be closing Galician board on January 1st. I don't know if this amendment is the result of the group's desire or the total lack of common sense or government experience, probably of the discouragement that reigns in these benches. Look, health cuts. It's because you have health cuts in your amendments: 65 million less for health material -- that's one of them -- to invest in the recovery of bass fishing; they take 30 million more from Vigo Hospital for a supposed Energy Table; they subtract another 10 million euros into health care, which are intended for a reformulation of Xacobeo; they cut another 30 million euros, which are intended to convert Igape into a Greek public bank. You can have sectarianism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u66	...and dogmatism above pragmatism and defense of the interests of the Greeks. Social cuts. Look, it's just that you're presenting an amendment that's going to eliminate 42.6 million euros that take out the public residences of older people in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u68	...which was supposed to leave public residences unseasoned to one in four majors in Galicia. There's a lot to look at...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u69	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u70	...to propose initiatives like this! [[Murmurs.]] Look, it doesn't count on us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u72	The truth is, I spent all my time talking about the Galician Nationalist Block... and I could do very little to talk about... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u73	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u74	...of the Socialist Party. I hope the counselor, in his intervention, can fill this vacuum that, by the apportionment of time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u76	...so unfair to the majority group, I couldn't develop. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u78	If they give me time, I'll get it, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u79	We now turn to the replica of the amending parliamentary groups. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, the truth is it's curious because every time you get out here you must pretend that the opposition will come to applaud the Government. The truth is, it's pretty curious. Look, we have another way of understanding politics and, therefore, we have the same right to come here to consider what our alternative is to the People's Party's Government. And you have to respect and not come here saying that we don't do our job well, that we don't know how to do it, and less than we're a bunch of incompetents. So I don't allow it and it's the last time it's expressed in those terms. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Counsellor, the truth is that I believe that part of your debate is a subject that will be discussed in the next debate, which is in the Tax and Administrative Measures Act. But, anyway, okay, you have unlimited time, which we don't have, and so you can repeat many of the things you just told us. I was hoping that you wouldn't fall into the same mistake as you fell all these years -- at least for the twelve years that you've been ruling -- the one that often refers to that tending hand, to that consensus of what they often talk about but never practice. He hoped, in this case, that he had changed and that he had really taken this opportunity to come to an agreement and actually make that tending hand effective. And look, I also find it curious -- in you too, and in Mr. Tellado it's customary -- to come and tell us again about the Bipartite. The Bipartite ruled in a territory and a population at a given time, which little or nothing has to do with the current moment, and were many of the correct facts of that bipartisan government. If today he'd still rule that two-party government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u81	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u82	Hasn't time come? Well, neither do we. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] If you were ruling that two-party government, I assure you that health would be shielded as a public service, universal, free and of quality; education would be a universal service, free and of quality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u83	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u84	...and social policies would meet existing needs in our society, mainly for those most vulnerable families. And look, Mr. Tellado, it would only be twelve years later that there would be fewer day centers, that eleven years later there would be fewer centers for attention to older people and that twelve years later there would be fewer infantry schools! The truth is, you don't assume that in twelve years you haven't done everything you could have done. They didn't, Mr. Tellado, they didn't! And, therefore, they always have to be compared to twelve years earlier, to another reality, and to another moment. Counselor, you were talking about advertising and propaganda, and I remind you of what the Board itself says: that they are excessive and they hide behind the immobilized immaterial. I'm not saying it, the Board of Auditors. So they should often take care of the things that the Board of Auditors tells them. And look, if we're talking about tax benefits, I think you're very demanding about other incomes, but quite restrictive about your own. We socialists believe that if you earn much more, you have to contribute something more to strengthen the welfare state. And at this point in which more income is needed, those that have much more should also contribute much more, especially when we know that the gap in incomes higher than the lowest has increased during this crisis. I also tell you, Counsellor, that you do not heed the recommendations of the Board of Auditors again, and do a study of the indicators to verify the effectiveness of tax reductions that you year after year announce with a lot of publicity and propaganda and to see exactly who you are benefiting most, to whom you are benefiting most! Because you're talking about a downside in the IRPF that doesn't favor the lower classes anymore. One euro a month is not favouring anyone; one euro a month is simply to make it look good on your propaganda announcement and on your papers. They're not favoring classes... No, no, no; they're not favoring the most needy classes, they're always favoring the highest classes and the ones they have most, the ones they have most! [[Applause]] For the amendment tabled by the Socialists and Mr Tellado was trying to mobilise EUR 466 million. Because we socialists know that health and economics go hand in hand; therefore, we intend to mobilize more than 115 million euros to strengthen primary care, primary care personnel and specialist staff, an absolutely necessary mental health plan, the promotion of healthy habits and against addictive disorders or the increasingly worrying fight against gambling addiction and gambling. In education we would mobilise more than 79 million euros. For what? For school lunchers, an increase in teachers, prevention of school dropout...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u86	...renewal of information technology, freeness of university fees, higher scholarships for university students and rehabilitation and improvement of special education centres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u88	In social policies, we would increase -- finished already, Mr. President, let me half a minute, of those who interrupted me with their interventions --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u89	No, no, it's past now, look at the timer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u90	...46 million euros to strengthen the staff in inspection and in residential and day centers, the free of 0-3 years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u91	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u92	...in January 2022, increase the share of home-care services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u94	...the improvement of the Early Warning Network, the reinforcement of the disability assessment team and a real plan to fight against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u95	Thank you very much. Your time is up, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. Mr. Tellado, grateful and moved that he has us in his thoughts and that he has given us his time. I think it's a symptom that we're going the right way, making them opposition. But look, every year he tells us we don't talk about our amendment. I would recommend that you wash your ears or change your leaflet, because we do speak of that amendment, bad that it weighs you. In any case, from the Bipartite, you know, whenever you want, we have a monographic debate about him. [[Applause]] A girl, no. I didn't vote because it's October, but don't worry that in my high school folders it was already full of stickers from BNG and Galicia New. Don't worry. [[Applause]] And look, we are very grateful to you because the newest Members of this bench, who do not live with militant intensity or political responsibilities, the Bipartite era, thanks to you we are doing a great master continuously. I already feel like I was ruling at the time. Thank you very much! And besides, I'm telling you one thing: the longer the time it takes and the more obsessed you are following with a government of twelve years ago, the more convinced we are that it was the best that happened to this country, the more convinced we are! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] In any case, by bringing to the debate a little more the year 2021, if you want, instead of messing around talking about bipartites that if they work and very well, it's wrong to them, like Lugo's, we can talk about what doesn't work, like that lethal bipartite that you support in Ourense. If they want, we can talk about it. [[Applause]] Or we can talk more about those amendments that bothered you so much about social policy. I insist on what Ana Pontón insisted this morning: little did we cut those games that are useful for draining -- especially the DomusVi -- and that, above what you mentioned, there would be more than half left to reach the total of what you do to private companies with a model that happened during the pandemic of coward-19. [[Applause]] Of course we have to cut in there, of course we have to bet on the public system of attention to old age. Of course you do, and we'll keep insisting, Mr. Tellado, it's too bad that you care. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I'm going to answer some of the questions you put on the table, too, Mr. Counsellor. Tax policy, yes. In fact, we think that, in a moment of economic crisis and lack of resources like what we are, taxes should be raised to those who have the most. It's the only way to redistribute wealth, and we reaffirm ourselves in it. You've taken a varied look at the taxes we're presenting. Obviously, we don't rule, we don't present an economic memory. In any case, if the problem is that we hurt the amendments very much, there's a solution. Even without going further, in the last debate of the nation's state, we proposed to do a study table on how to deal with, for example, Galicia's green taxation, where you know, in addition, perfectly that there is a state recentralization operation in front of which the Union does not want to exercise its normative capacity or is not reacting. So, let's hear what tax framework Galicia needs to have more resources within that green tax framework. Of course, we'll be there. In any case, at least, don't miss the truth. Wind canon: taxable basis, article 14.1 of the law and those air carriers. If they don't change the model, it's just because they're on the side of the electric lobby. [[Applause]] In any case, you also spoke -- in a generous and cordial tone; inheritance, I'm sure, of our missed Valeriano -- of making an effort to bring up postures. Well, as you pose, it's okay, but, of course, you've fled precisely from the bottom of the budget debate. It's a political and non-technical debate. And we'll see, because by understanding and assuming that, of course, a refund and cross-sectional amendment you won't accept it, we can now predict here what will be the result of the more than 400 partial amendments of BNG. I'm convinced they'll argue the same thing, when there'd be a margin to trade and to arrive at agreements. If we hurt so much, and we have as many good ideas, as you told us, we could come up with some questions. But reality is not, because the underlying problem is political. Because if you, for example, agree that one out of every 100 euros should be allocated to the fight against male violence, we discuss how we tackle this in the amendments. If you want to reverse the teacher's cut, because whoever cuts the professor's cut is not the BNG in an amendment to budgets with a gross manipulation about the concert, who cut 2,500 professors were you -- which is told by the Board of Auditors in your last report -- since 2009. [[Applause]] That's the cut. If you want to reverse it, let's negotiate the amendments. And for some time, I have to go down, because, of course, Mr. Tellado is little, but the groups we amend are even less, calibrating effort and time. The same with regard to the risk. Of course we want to change what doesn't work, of course we want to change -- if there's now a vital minimum income, and you in two years have not been able to bring a project to make the two aids compatible -- and go to a more ambitious model that is not of charity, but of horizontality and to make citizens of this country more free. And of course we have many more proposals in other areas where I can no longer enter. The question of budgetary debate is therefore the usual one. There are different political models, this debate is disguised on a technical issue, when what you are not able to justify are many of the absences that we have highlighted in our forty more concrete proposals, and their budgets do not incorporate the slightest hint of change, because the only thing they want is to go back to the picture we had in 2019. So he's dressed up as a technical debate, and thanks to most of them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u98	...this amendment will be rejected, but we will continue to insist. And finished, now yes, Mr. President. This week he left us Darío Xohán Cabana, who was much more than a poet for this country, and I want to say goodbye, Mr. Corgos, with a little poetry. He would say Daria Xohán Cabana in his poem that of: "You will sell./ But we/ we have of our part/ April oaks.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Therefore, in this debate, you will win, but we will continue to insist, because we are convinced that it is best for this country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u99	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closing round, you have the word of Mr. Corgos, the councillor of Fairy and Public Admiration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u100	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your input. We will close this part of the debate on transversal amendments. I'd like to be positive. I don't know if you like or don't like it, but I think we have to try and reach agreements. The fact is that the amendments, of course, in this part of the debate are not going to be adopted, but they will depend on them in the partial. If they're every year, then, as Einstein said -- who was a person who knew something about the scientific method -- if you want a different result, you'll have to try a different experiment. If we always make the same proposal or experiment, the result, unfortunately, will be the same. He said I'm not going to come in because no additional information was added about the contents of the amendments I initially mentioned. I think they've spent more time talking about the Bipartite, incredibly, than about his amendments, which is certainly worrying. [[Protests.]] But, well, there you are! We have ended this broad debate, as I said, in what we have had occasion to debate on many proposals and with an exchange of views and suggestions which I think very beneficial, but, from the arguments I have put forward, we cannot accept their amendments, because it is about winning but also about convincing, Mrs Presas. Obviously, we know that everything is better and that we are not fully right, but we must also apply our budgetary model that -- straight -- as they have already explained in the morning, we believe it is being useful to consolidate economic reactivation and strengthen healthy growth. One of the biggest differences is in fiscal policy. The Greek Government bets to relieve the burden of citizens and businesses whenever there is a margin, and more in a set as the current one, in which there is a need to recover sustained economic growth and face a significant rise in prices. We believe in this model because the data confirms it. If we leave more money in the citizens' pockets, consumption and investment are increased, this favours maintenance and job creation, which increases the contributions and, finally, the collection, as happened in the 2016-2019 period. The tax model of the opposition is another, tax rise, which is equally legitimate, but which we believe would spoil the exit of Galicia from the crisis and penalize our community at the post-Poscovid stage. That is yes, socialists and nationalists agree to propose tax increases to the Greeks and to the Greeks, but they differ in their intensity, perhaps because in the socialist band they are also discounting the "taxation" that is agreed with the European Commission and that we will fall on all Spaniards in the coming years. In 2022 we will have more resources than ever, and even though needs will be many, we believe that these accounts have a clear strategy for the moment we are living, because our obligation is to prioritize actions and get the most out of every public euro. But we are not limited to the administration being the only engine of economic recovery, we want to help accompany the private sectors to complement the efforts of the public, and, together with both of them, to promote the creation of wealth and employment. We need to rear up an industrial sector that an improvised energy transition is leaving in the chassis in our autonomous community. In the last decade, before the pandemic conditioned all our actions, Galicia was on the podium of the most advanced autonomous communities; the third most advanced in terms of per capita income, which is the index that economists give us to measure the synthetic advance in the wealth and progress of a territory. This must be the goal, a common goal led by the Government, but I wish to see the support of all parliamentary groups. With a unique position of country we will have more chances of success. We have several challenges ahead, as I have already pointed out during this debate, among them, to make the most of the recovery funds from the European Union; something that will be easier if the Government of Spain, responsible for its distribution, distributes them to cohesive areas and prevents crises at different speeds. Because we believe -- and we recognize the European Commission and the Government of Spain itself -- that we are very good managers of European funds. In a few weeks we will present the main objectives of this decade's strategic planning, which we will also present the debate in this House, and immediately also in a specific commission created for the effect, we will have to try to compromise a proposal for adequate self-financing so that every Greek and Greek can have the same quality in the provision of public services as any other citizen, residing where he resides, but which also leaves room for fiscal responsibility, in fact allowing the capitalization of resources, dividends, of sound financial management. Tomorrow Galicia will be the seat of a meeting to address the necessary revision of the current financing system, a meeting that will serve as a basis for further efforts to reach out to face-to-face improvements, with dialogue, to achieve sufficient and equitable autonomous funding that meets the interests of Galicia and the autonomous communities in general. I have already finished thanking again for the speeches of all the voices and voices, both in the debate in the morning and this afternoon, and wishing for a good parliamentary work to complete the processing of these accounts. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u101	Thank you very much, Counselor. Voting of amendments to Group II as a whole
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u102	We then vote on the amendments discussed by Group II in a consolidated way, by a parliamentary group, both those which modify the overall content of budgets and those which transfer appropriations between sections. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, we are voting on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia which amend the overall budget account and transfer appropriations between sections. Joint vote on Group II amendments, amendments amending the overall budget content or transferring appropriations between sections of the G.P. of Galician Socialists The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u103	We are now voting on amendments by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which amend the overall budget account and transfer appropriations between sections. Joint vote on Group II amendments, amendments that modify the overall budget content or transfer credits between sections, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u104	Rejected the amendments to the whole and fixed the overall amount of expenditure and income statements, this bill is transferred to Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budget, to continue its processing, in accordance with Article 114(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the entire debate on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. Full discussion of the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u105	For the presentation of the bill, Mr. Corgos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u106	Good afternoon again, for the sixth and I hope that last time this day, it seems inexhaustible. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I am speaking in this plenary session to present the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures for the year 2022, a rule that complements the Bill of Budgets for the next year, also currently in parliamentary processing, and on what we have just discussed. Let me make a brief statement on the reasons for this project, which is justified because budgets require, for their full application, the adoption of different measures, of a purely executive character and of a normative nature, which, by their nature, must adopt a range of laws and which, as the Constitutional Court has specified, must not be incorporated into the annual budget laws, but into specific laws. In this way, the doctrinal debate on the nature of so-called accompaniment laws was resolved by the Constitutional Court, which set them up as ordinary laws, whose content is fully supported by the freedom of normative configuration enjoyed by the legislator and which allows for a better and more effective execution of the government program in the various fields of action. From this perspective, the objective is the usual, to achieve greater efficiency and efficiency with a set of measures in different areas of activity, which, with a vocation of permanence over time, contribute to the achievement of certain multi-annual guidance objectives pursued by the Autonomous Community through budgetary execution. Among the measures included in this draft law, I would like to stress those seeking to establish three new tax reductions for the most disadvantaged groups: to strengthen the conciliation measures and to improve the conditions for moving to victims of gender violence; to introduce for the first time an extraordinary procedure for the direct taxation of protected housing from public promotion to the most disadvantaged groups; to postpone within two months -- on 1 April -- the obligation to manage biomass near housing, to strengthen prevention against forest fires; to avoid the marketing of illegal fishing products; to enable free schools for all children from 0 to 3 years of age -- a pioneering measure throughout Spain-- to create an extraordinary category of optional specialist in primary care; and to establish a year and medium moratorium to process wind farms in order to ensure an orderly planning of the sector compatible with the development of the natural environment. As for the structure of the law, it is divided into two titles: the first devoted to tax measures; and the second devoted to measures of an administrative nature. Title I, on tax measures, is divided into two chapters: Chapter I introduces measures in the field of assigned taxes, of which we have discussed throughout today. So, as far as IRPF is concerned -- in the path started by this government in 2014 and continued in 2016 -- for the next year we put in place a new scale with types below the state and lower the types of all sections, except those of 60,000 euros, to benefit all contributors. I want to point out that this is -- as I said before -- a progressive reduction of progressive tax. The objective is that all Greeks can increase private spending at this time to help sectors most affected by the crisis, which have more resources to consume and promote employment, and thus increase tax collection. Figures show that when we lower taxes, the collection increases. For example, in the IRPF, since 2015 -- a year prior to the fall in the 2016 IRPF tariff and up to the 2019 campaign -- 6% grew by the IRPF declarants -- as I said before -- and 28% by their collection. As far as wealth tax is concerned, a 25 % quota bonus is established to adapt to our surroundings of the European Union. I have already said this morning that in the context of the European Union, only two countries maintain a tax which can be considered as akin to wealth tax: France, which records large real estate assets, but with a much lower type than Spanish equity tax, 1.6%, and Holland, which records the yields of heritage goods, but does not record wealth increases in income tax, with a tax rate of 1.5%. And there is also a recording, which is not similar, for real estate outside the national territory established in Italy. In addition, at the same time, all types are maintained, a percentage type is reduced, the general type of tax on capital transmissions and documented legal acts, in their mode of costly heritage transmissions, so operations recorded at 10 % will be recorded, taxed at 9 %. In this way, we accompany the dynamization that is taking place in real estate operations, mainly in the purchase of used housing, which are the ones that are recorded in the tax on heritage transmissions, as you know, that on many occasions changes or rehabilitations when they are acquired and will therefore lead to greater economic activity in the construction sector. It must be borne in mind that the construction activity again grows in Galicia after fifteen months in red numbers and with a demand for purchases that reaches levels above 2019, at 26%. The situation of health crisis caused by the pandemic forced the first trimester of this year to close gambling and restoration establishments, places where playing machines are installed, which are taxed by fixed quotas, are either open or not. In the same way as eleven other autonomous communities and to put them in a position of equivalence with the rest of the sector, a similar measure is adopted last year, so they pay proportionally to the period in which they could develop their activity. By its band, the second chapter, concerning its own taxes, is comprised only of a precept on fees. On the one hand, the types of fixed counting rates, which are the administrative rates, are usually, and on the other hand, which should reflect the cost of providing services; and on the other hand, changes are introduced in Law 6/2003, of fees, prices and regulatory levies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about tax measures. Let me now refer to Title II on administrative measures. In the field of public employment, measures are introduced to promote the management of recovery funds, and the transfer conditions for gender victims are improved. In particular, the staff member's encouraged voluntary mobility period extends to priority sectors, such as the management of European funds. On the other hand, transfer conditions are improved for employees who are victims of gender-based violence, as I said before. In this way, the job assigned to the person who is a victim of gender-based violence may be occupied on a definitive basis, without having to compete in order to consolidate this measure, as long as he so requests. In the field of the environment and territory, several changes are included: a new cooperation fund is created for municipalities wishing to acquire and promote new housing for social rent. In addition, it is exempt from the requirement to be aware of tax obligations to beneficiaries of lease bonds which are considered as vulnerable collectives at the time of payment of aid granted, such as the social lease bonus or the victims of gender violence. And for the first time, an extraordinary procedure is introduced for the direct adjudication of a protected housing from public promotion to disadvantaged groups. In rural areas, the main policy change is to amend the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Act to move forward within two months -- as I mentioned earlier -- the obligation to manage biomass near housing, in particular as at 1 April, to speed up the resolution of the files for the cleaning of this biomass. In the field of infrastructure and mobility, improvements are being made to passenger transport stations and road regulations. As far as passenger transport stations are concerned, their essential elements are defined and the coordination rules laid down for their drive between authorities with competing competences are laid down. The main objective is that these infrastructures act as exchange centres or transhipment between different transport nodes. With regard to the Road Law, it is sought to simplify the conditions and administrative processing necessary to carry out activities on the margins of the autonomous roads. These are positive changes for economic reactivation, in line with recent trends in simplification and administrative rationalization. Finally, a specific procedure is laid down to cover the execution of certain sustainable mobility promotion infrastructures, such as pedestrian or dissuasive parking spaces, which currently lack specific regulation. In the area of the sea, amend the Fisheries Act with a view to avoiding the marketing of illegal fishery products. Therefore, the commission of products is established as an ancillary sanction in the case of commercial infringements in order to avoid such illegal sales. And they avoid inconsistencies like having to compensate an offender or have to return the product to him, even though he committed a commercial offence. In the area of social policy, legal qualifications are introduced to apply freeness in children's schools for all children from 0 to 3 years of age, a measure -- as I said earlier -- pioneers throughout Spain. This measure will allow all Galician families, having the number of children and income they have, to be able to save the tuition and the costs of educational care in Galician children's schools, whether they are public, autonomous, municipal and social or private. In the field of health, the proposal for the creation of a new category of primary care specialist optional is an extraordinary one. This measure responds that, despite the exhaustion of the rates imposed by the State, the agile execution of public job offers and continuity contracts, we continue to suffer -- as the whole of health systems in Spain -- a significant shortage of professionals in the speciality of family and community medicine. This new category seeks to improve primary care coverage. On the other hand, also focused on primary care, the incorporation of new health professional staff is formulated. So doctors who have not yet completed their specialty will be allowed to be hired by Sergas to support the family doctor in the management of processes and in the conduct of certain reports, for example, in the pursuit of temporary disabilities. In addition, in this line of work, there are measures in the Budget Act itself, such as the 28 new primary care pharmacy squares and the 81 new nursing squares, since we believe that these are professionals who must gain resolution capacity and provide in the patient response without needing to pass by the doctor. As far as industry is concerned, a year and a half moratorium is established to be able to process the files corresponding to wind farms in order to carry out an orderly sector planning, bring it closer to legal security and prioritize development compatible with the natural environment. In addition, in the same line of giving security to the sector and ensuring its development is compatible with environmental protection, Galicia has also recently agreed on a new limitation on the distance of air carriers to the population nuclei, which is the largest of these two parameters: 500 meters or 5 times the total height of the airline. This decision will contribute to the defense of natural spaces and avoid the visual impact. A number of coordination measures are being introduced in the field of local police coordination. The main novelty is to regulate mobility, which is just configured as a system of access to the different categories of career of local police bodies to be configured as a supply system. In this way, the career staff of the local police personnel in Galicia belonging to the police categories -- officer, inspector, lead inspector, steward, head steward and overseer -- may participate in the provision of vacancies of the same category in other local police bodies in the Autonomous Community. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reminded that the main measures included in this project are intended to establish three new tax reductions for the taxpayers of Greece: strengthening conciliation measures and improving the conditions for moving to victims of gender violence; introducing for the first time an extraordinary procedure for the direct taxation of a protected housing from public promotion to disadvantaged groups; moving forward in two months, on 1 April, the obligation to manage biomass near housing to strengthen the prevention of forest fires; preventing the marketing of illegal fishery products; enabling the freeness of children's schools for all children from 0 to 3 years of age -- a measure, as I have already said, pioneer in Spain--; creating an extraordinary new category of optional primary care; and finally setting a moratorium on a year and medium to process wind farms in order to ensure orderly planning of the sector compatible with the development and protection of the natural environment. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u107	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now move on to the defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u108	Good afternoon to all, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr Corgos, I would also like to welcome this debate and, of course, wish you every success possible in these coming days. Finally, we also regret -- and we add to the whole of the Members and Members who have already shown it -- the death of Mr Martínez; a man with powers and abilities, who gave them to Galicia, but also, fundamentally, a good man, in the poor treatment I had with him. A good person, then, and that's what's left of me. The first question with regard to this law is that I believe that with the Tax and Administrative Measures Act, which is a law accompanying the Budget Act -- and in addition, it is due in the same time frame as the Budget Law itself -- it gives me the feeling that we are in the face of an absolutely repeated debate year after year, an absolutely essential debate and a redundant debate. Because you, far from using this Law of exceptional measures, normalize the Law of tax and administrative measures year after year to change all kinds of rules that have nothing to do with the budgetary question. In this case, this year, you amend 30 provisions, 30 rules, 26 laws and 4 legislative decrees, the vast majority of them that have nothing to do with matters of a tax or economic nature related to budgets. And through this mechanism you modify the Public Health Act, which was finally brought to this Parliament a few months ago by the urgency procedure. Already the spokesman for the Socialist Group -- in this case my colleague Julio Torrado -- warned that there were solid indications of unconstitutionality of certain articles, but, nevertheless, this legislative amendment was approved to beg Mr. Núñez Feijó the ability to determine about fundamental rights that affected the Greeks and the Greeks, and he had to come to the Constitutional Court suspend that amendment. And now you, by taking it back through a global change of 30 provisions, bring it here without passing through the plenary -- as it would be mandatory -- without any legislative debate in this House, without a debate in which the ordinary legislative procedure was followed. You understand that we cannot approve these kinds of inappropriate and inexhaustible techniques that consist of modifying all kinds of rules through the Law of Measures. [[Applause]] But, well, not content with amending thirty laws, thirty rules, through the Law of Measures, the People's Party sees that in the amendments to the Law of Measures itself, it introduces 39 amendments, which already seems to us to be a genuine abuse of a legislative technique and a form of legislation that is absolutely inescapable, because it prevents this House, from preventing this plenary from giving its opinion, from being able to intervene in its own decisions on the legislation adopted in this House. And, of course, at last, we have been considering an appeal in the Constitutional Court two years ago, and we hope that the Constitutional Court will resolve in the sense that we have proposed, that it is inconstitutional and inconstitutional to propose what the People's Party does, that it is no less than legislate on the side of Parliament itself in Galicia. In relation to the law itself, at last, it is the set of an amalgam of inconsequential rules and no points of homogeneity that are modified through this Law of Measures; a law that, at last, is contrary to transparency and even breaks the principle of legal security. I mean, it's an inappropriate and inadequate legislative technique that over the last few years we've seen you discuss in this House from the Socialist Group -- also from the BNG -- and that goes against what the doctrine itself thinks. You have just read the explanatory statement in your presentation a few minutes ago and we already know that there is a Constitutional Court ruling and that the law is indeed constitutional, although in your own judgment there are authors or rapporteurs of that judgment -- no rapporteurs, but if you are the constitutional court magistrates -- who are against this kind of mechanism, of using the accompanying law to amend all kinds of rules that have nothing to do with the budgetary issue. Obviously, the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures is a law that, theoretically, is born to complement budgets, which is born as an accompanying law for budgets, which happens to be that you end up doing this a whole revolutionary, an omnibus law in which everything is, with grave impact -- I insist -- of legal security and, of course, subtraction from public debate and parliamentary debate in this House. The law of measures is subject to the deadlines of the draft budget law; it is therefore a bill of measures with very rapid deadlines. And by being subject to that calendar, it is avoided that certain reports will be accompanied that would be logical in the processing of a legislative procedure, which is obviously to the detriment of the legal quality and the democratic quality that must preserve the adoption of a legislative text. In relation to the constitutionality of the rule, if I then insist on the spokesperson for the People's Party -- which I think will intervene Mrs. Paula Prado -- for I say yes, which is constitutional; yes, man, yes. But there are many authors in the doctrine who argue that, in fact, these kinds of laws of tax and administrative measures are nothing but a fraud to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court in relation to the limits of the contents that have to do with the Budget Law, since through the Law of Measures they are created or modified without a law that enables them, as set out in Article 134.7 of the Constitution itself. Therefore, we are faced with a legislative system which is comprehensible in this law of measures which prevents us from knowing with due rigour and depth each and every one of the issues covered by the law itself. And, of course, it prevents the control that the Legislative has to do to the Executive in relation to the approval of this kind of rule. I insist: 30 laws, 30 rules, 26 laws and 4 legislative decrees. It's true last year was 25. Since 2017 you have changed 112 laws through this procedure, which is, at last, insistent, constitutional and legal, all great, but very ethical, of course, it doesn't remain and very aesthetic, either, everything has to be said. And just to make a quote, I mean here you talked about the Bipartite and the evils of the Bipartite. For during the Bipartite, 56 laws were passed, and none of them were passed through the law's mechanism of tax and administrative measures. [[Applause]] You change all kinds of rules: the Land Law -- which has already been modified eight times -- the Natural Heritage Law, the Galician Land Management Law, laws which were also approved in 2021, an administrative simplification law and the Land Management Law itself or the Land Recovery Act. Also on fisheries, ports, social services, cooperatives, tax issues; of course, on housing issues, on health issues, etc. I mean, a lot of rules have been changed that have nothing to do with budgetary matters and that, of course, they make it clear that you are modifying by the back door administrative provisions without any necessary debate on each of them. And all this without the report of the Economic and Social Council. Because the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures and the matters which are amended through it affect Galicia's economic and social development, and therefore between the competences and obligations of the ESC is issuing opinions on draft laws and draft legislative decrees which regulate matters that are linked to Galicia's economic and social development. There is therefore no ESC report, there is a memory in the accompanying reports to justify the absence of the report of the Economic and Social Council, and one that does not even motivate the need for the report of the Economic and Social Council. So we can't comply with this kind of legislative technique. We cannot accept that through the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures we amend rules that have nothing to do with budgets and, of course, we oppose this way of making legislation that you bring year after year since Mr Núñez Feijó ruled in Galicia. They are laws of measures which violate autonomous laws: the Law of transparency and good governance, the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Galicia itself, or the law which regulates the rationalization of the public sector; laws which denote the absence of reports from the various councils based on matters which are amended in them and laws which are amended without an economic impact report, without being diluted by the Economic and Social Council itself. Finally, all kinds of amendments are made to Parliament's control, to the control of the Members and Members of the House of Galicia. And, well, you change here -- you talked all morning -- all kinds of rules, including taxes. Now you were talking about three tax rebates in the property tax, in the IRPF and in the equity tax, and I have to tell you, that, in fact, you here -- you've also said -- you use a lot of propaganda when you talk about tax rebates, when at last I read headlines like the budgets of the Board introduce 522 million euros of tax bonuses. The Board's Budget Act, in Article 5.2, says that the capacity to introduce tax subsidies for the Board is 267 million. Well, let's just leave it, but you introduce bonuses to the IRPF saying, in addition, they benefit 1,100,000 Greeks. And it's already said here, and I don't want to be excessively repetitive about the matter, but it's not. They benefit 1,100,000 Greeks, but they benefit some more than others, because the average salary in Galicia, Mr. Corgos, is €22,177, which is equivalent to a liquidable base of EUR 15,000 to 17.000, and in this tranche there are 800,000 Greeks who will be benefited by their tax rebate in the IRPF in a county of EUR 12 to 20 - 800,000 Greeks-- However, 0.3% of the Greeks, 38,000 Greeks, which have a liquidable base of more than 100,000 euros, will benefit in more than 500 euros or in about 500 euros each. Which is an impact on tax subsidies of EUR 20 million. So here those who really benefit from their tax bonuses are the high incomes and the ones who earn the most. And that's how it is. That's it! [[Applause]] Of course, you are set up in that evil that is to pay taxes in Galicia and installed in that dialectic which you handle basically consists of advertising constantly and year after year down from taxes, in the tax yielded, of course, in the taxes itself, in the taxes it collects to Junta, but then maintaining a permanent confrontation with the Government of the State and claiming more and better funding, as it is logical. By the way, this year, 7,995 million in the system of self-financing, if I do not remember correctly; 360 million as a result of the compensation for the negative settlement of the year 2020, including those that assume the State. So, finally, in this permanent confrontation that you make with the state, you renounce your own ability to raise more taxes, especially in the IRPF, in respect of higher incomes, or even in property tax, or even in inheritance tax, where the exempt base is EUR 1 million. Indeed, direct online succession does not benefit everyone at all; it obviously benefits those who have the most, because in a family, in a marriage of 4 million euros and with 2 children, their children, when they inherit, will pay absolutely nothing. And I don't think Galicia has a lot of heritage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u110	...of 4 million euros. There are much smaller assets. So you're going to benefit exactly the same little heritage as the high heritages in this case. So it's a policy that obviously benefits high incomes, and we don't comply with that. So, this law of measures, ultimately, shows that it legislates itself to impulses, Mr. Corgos, and stands out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u111	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u112	...a lack of planning on what must conform to the legislation of this autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u114	Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u115	For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u116	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Counselor. In fact, you have such an intense and marathonal session, but, as a pity of many, a few comfort, you think that maybe we have two more ordinary days left, Tuesday and Wednesday. Out of the jokes, actually, I also don't want to know if you greet him or welcome him. It's also the first time that I, at least, have a chance to talk to you. So we remember, indeed, a lot of Valerian, but you are also present and future, at least immediately in this country. With regard to the debate of this Budget Accompanying Act, the Tax and Administrative Measures Act, it was noted at one time that it was a repetitive debate. Maybe, we've talked a lot about a lot of things here, but that's not why they're less important. I do not agree in any case is that it is an essential debate; quite the contrary, rather. The problem is that there is little debate, that there is debate on the quick way, and that there is debate on the whole. They are 27 laws, 27 normative texts, which are not linked to the tax system of this country and which are debated in a joint manner, in a mix that makes it impossible for a debate to be held at a halt and a debate centered on each of the proposed amendments to be tabled. It is also true that they come every year trying to justify the use and abuse of this mechanism or of this legislative procedure, trying to convince us -- or I don't know whether to convince yourself -- that -- in the explanatory statement -- the essential content of this Act of tax and administrative measures is of a taxable nature, but the truth is that it's not true, because of the 42 articles that make up the Act of accompanying budgets, the Law of tax and administrative measures, only five articles are related to tax matters. The remaining 36 are once more directed at modifying more than twenty normative texts than nothing, in practice nothing has to do with all accounts. You said in your intervention that it was a supplement to the budgets, that they required regulatory changes to the execution of the budget, but the truth and the truth is, it's not. You use this mechanism or this procedure as a quick way to legislate, to introduce changes of all kinds and of very heterogeneous nature into the legal order of our country, and that's the opposite of the legal security or the stability that they then preach. We say it every year since the Galician Nationalist Block, but we repeat it again this time. Accompanying laws are very little democratic ways to legislate in both form and substance. They represent an accelerated procedure for processing that robs the necessary social and political debate that requires any legislative procedure, not only to this House or to the agents and sectors affected by the amendments proposed in the bill, but, for example, to the statutory bodies such as the Economic and Social Council, which in any ordinary legislative procedure must issue a report, even if it is not binding, on the content of that text. You know that already; that is, it's not out of ignorance that they use and abuse this practice or this regulatory mechanism, but they use it repeatedly, annually, because they are useful to their own political interests and supporters for being, I insist, a quick way, a back door with which to modify the regulatory framework of this country. I'm not going to talk any more of the way today, because at the bottom, even if the debate is repeated, there's always something new; always, you're not disappointed. I've been here for five years, and four -- if I don't remember bad -- texts of accompanying laws, and when you think you've seen it all, because no, you have the ability to learn something new and to be surprised. As for the background, which is the most important of this text, of this bill, let's go in parts. First of all, with regard to tax measures, I'm not going to stop much on taxes in this House -- if I'm going to mention something or reference -- because we've talked a lot about it today, and I think it's pretty clear what the position of each of the groups is. In any case, in the project, what we see from the BNG is that there is no bet on reducing social and territorial inequalities or measures to achieve greater redistributive capacity in line with the principles that we must reject in that system that we defend, which is that progressiveness and fiscal equity, rather than an ambitious reform that relieves the majority of society. Because here we were asked, and we can agree to lower taxes on workers and workers, but we'll have to look for -- and then we'll talk about that -- how to compensate for that reduction in income on public accounts. Instead of betting -- I insist -- for an ambitious reform that relieves the most punished social groups, what we see is how they make changes in the opposite direction. And here -- I insist -- I make an incision, because you have two faces -- in addition to a pretty hard face, you have two faces -- because today we are debating a proposal that is really wet paper. Because what is really going to happen in this country, which comes into force the day after the publication in the Official Journal of Galicia, unless there is an unexpected turn of events -- which I don't think -- what is going to be published in the CEO is not what we are discussing today in this bill, but the amendments presented by the Popular Parliamentary Group. And in addition to being quite twisted the mechanism, because it prevents the debate from being interrupted and delayed by more than twenty-seven legal reforms, it really puts on us the proposal that the People's Party and the Government defends through the amendments to the PP, that those are not even amendable. [[Applause]] I, of course, prepared this intervention, said: Is it worth reading even the project? Because really what I have to read, because it must be what was published in the CEO, are the amendments of the People's Party, but, well, there is always time for debate and we spare no effort. But -- I insist, we've talked a lot about this -- we don't see a progressive fiscal reform, nor fair to the majority of society -- my comrade Noa Presas said so a moment ago --. The discounts you collect for a woman who works as a cashier in a supermarket are a discount of 12 euros a year, but for a person who's a member of the board of directors at ence -- that I'm sure there were a lot of people who saw a known private television channel yesterday -- the councillor at ence will have a saving of 500 euros a year. That's neither fair nor equitable nor progressive; it's rather the opposite. But -- I insist -- I'm not going to deepen much on this issue. We think they miss the opportunity, we lose the Welsh and the Greeks the opportunity to look for additional funding, because no government has a ticket machine, no one has. So what we've lost revenue for tax reductions -- not only these that appear here, but others that you've been approving in recent years, like, for example, leaving the inheritances between 400,000 and 1 million euros tax free -- that means we have a decrease in capacity, in incomes that the Galician Union has. These are Atriga data, not the BNG Parliamentary Group. In that tax-free leaving those inheritances between 400,000 and 1 million euros, we lost 136 million euros a year. And I say, what's that for a government? Because, of course, for a person at home because it's a lot of money. For the Government it is the entire transfer programme to local entities by participation in the income of the Autonomous Community. That's what we can no longer invest in these tax cuts that you don't give us an alternative. We think we need to look where the money is, because there's wealth in this country, and there's little distribution of it. With regard to administrative measures, which -- I insist -- is the bulk of the law, thirty-six of forty-two articles, this year they modify twenty-two laws and two legislative decrees, in the vast majority the same laws as ever, reformed over and over again through this mechanism, which is for you the main way of legislating -- let's now see it with specific cases -- in spite of that very bad democratic quality that it represents. Constant reform, for example, of the Public Employment Act, without any negotiation of any kind with the trade union organizations representing the employees and the employees of the Administration. They reformed seven times, with this eight, that Public Employment Act, and all through the accompanying and non-negotiating laws with trade union organizations representing workers and public workers. Reform of the Fire Prevention and Extinction Act, seven times. Seven times they reform article 22, which once again reform with this budget bill. And this is evidence that they have no idea where they're going. They go like a rocket without a rod, they don't know where. Seven times we reform the same article 22, which regulates the management of biomass, and, of course, anyone who has a reading with four pins and has to rub doesn't even know what he has to do, because next year they'll come back here and bring us another text and another editing of that same article 22, which -- I insist -- they've already modified seven times this way. Reform of the Law from neighboring mountains to man-made, to follow, little by little and without debate, undermining the communal property until it disappears. And now they're trying to lock us up that they're going to declare, setting out what conditions they're going to do, abandoning some of these mountains and passing them -- look! -- municipal title, not municipal provisional management, no, no, municipal title, and I, man!, I want to think that here -- there's no need to say -- the communal mountain is neither public nor private, it's communal, and as communal does not belong to the neighbour or neighbour but to the house; then, moving it to a municipal title means completely changing the nature of such a characteristic, traditional and rooted property in our country. They also reform the Law of land structure, the Law of land recovery, a perfect example of the scandal and the most absolute sprinkling. And not only because you modify a law that has six months since it was approved and has come into force, not only because it has less than a year of vigency, but because the change is to enter the content of a transitional provision that you yourself have loaded into another amendment that you have made in the approval of another law that was not a strict modification of that one. It's not a mistake, it's not a mistake, is that you're a chapuza, literally, the ones who come here give lessons of rigor and solvency every day, a real chapuza. [[Applause]] The Law of soil, ten times modified, six with the Law of accompaniment. The law of housing and -- like not! -- the ones that have been, like this one that I've just mentioned, less than a year in force, that of land land, but also that of land management, which is already touching you. So it's changed too. There are three aspects that we're going to focus more on this year, because these are the big changes that you're putting into this accompanying law. One is this Health Act, to collate us without negotiation with trade union organizations, because they have a curious conception of democracy, which is to arrive at the sectoral table, first to announce what will happen, not even if you present the text of this new professional category that you create and then not even if you ask them if you are in favor, if you are against or are a medio-pensionist; you are simply warned or informed that you will be caught by a new professional health category for a period of five years, that the following year because they will change and where you put "five" will put "quence", which are those doctors or family doctors who will now perform with the same contract a double service, which is to provide guards in their health center but now also and with a mandatory nature preserved in the CAP, which up to now are volunteers. They also changed for the last time the Law of the wind sector, to introduce a supposed moratorium which is not such, that it is not so; well, a mechanism that you found to see if we were to lower social and political pressure in front of a predatory wind boom. [[Applause]] Of course, they come here to say in an orderly and planned manner, but if only with the requests that are presented today in the management of wind farms, we duplicate the production capacity that the country already has! So, man, you could wake them up to order and take into account the conservation of the environment and territory something earlier than this accompanying law. [[Applause]] In any case, let's go back to it. I can speak here of the text that presents us as a project, but what is really going to come into force are the amendments that the Popular Parliamentary Group has tabled and that, among other things, they say that, well, that of the mile away from the wind farms and houses, well, well; not for those who are already admitted and not for those who are subject to reconstitution; that is, for mills, as the president of the board said a few days ago, two hundred meters ago, because you can have them perfectly in the peak of the head, because that distance from the kilometer remains... well, no, it is not mandatory for reconstitutions, that -- I insist -- suppose the installation of two hundred meters high a year ago, which is more than the size of Astanus's crane, is more than the size of the facade of Santiago de Compostela cathedral, to make us an idea of what we're talking about. And the third novelty -- I'm saying here: no, they've been wrong, but no, they're not disappointed -- is that now they've already decided to give you a piece of crap to all of this, to twist already ad infinitum this supposedly exceptional mechanism linked to budget execution and this year they've decided to convert the accompanying laws into sectoral laws. And explain: they make the law of accompaniment into themselves; that is, they don't alter something that is already, no, no, they create specific legislation to regulate what? Well, infrastructure and mobility. I have to admit that when I read the project, of course, I say: here they forgot, they forgot, because it was a mistake, a glance, a mistake to enter what is the law to be changed. But no, what is done in Chapter IV is directly to create an ordinary legislation to regulate the transport sector or sustainable mobility infrastructure. I, of course, imagine you going to a more or less international summit, which is where we have a counselor around Copenhagen going around, and then I imagine you go to an international summit, ask you which normative framework, which law is based on, because to regulate something as fundamental as road mobility, or sustainable mobility infrastructure, and there are laws accompanying budgets, the 2017 and now also 2022. It is not designed for this, there have been no accompanying laws or should be used to create sectoral regulations in areas that are transcendent to the present and future of this country, because in mobility and infrastructure we have a strategic axis of the fight against climate change, but also of the social and territorial cohesion of this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u118	The minimum -- and with this ending -- is that there's a specific debate and there's a specific legislation to regulate something as basic and as fundamental as this. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now begin the round in favour of or against amendments or spokespersons from non-amendant groups to set positions. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the amendment to the entire Law of Measures, one year more and without much news in the speech on the left. I think they copied and mostly picked up your speech and I'm not going to be very innovative either. Mr. Rivera, you are the ones who just over two weeks ago at the Socialist Party Congress because they applauded the Minister of Fairy when he said, "Mondays settle the surplus value; said and done, and there applauded everyone." I mean, to fix an unconstitutional question they do through an unconstitutional legal instrument, and you come here today to teach us lessons of constitutionality or unconstitutionality of norms. Look, his speech was an absolute manipulation of the legislative text, but, well, he handled specifically the health law. Look, I'm going to give you a storyteller for you and whoever told you what to say -- that it's better for you to listen to it -- to refresh some memory of what happened here in Galicia. Well, in view of the need to have rules that allowed the management of a pandemic, the Government of Galician Union sent to the Central Government a proposal to amend the organic law of 1986, because logically it was not adapted to the health situation that we had before. And the Spanish Government didn't accept it. And so the Galician Parliament has taken the initiative to legislate the development of this organic law at an autonomous level to implement measures that can be taken and how. Surprisingly, the Government of Spain resorted to this law with much urgency, an emergency which did not understand the Council of State, which ruled over the appeal. Finally, the Constitutional Court -- Mr. Francisco, listen -- found that there was no reason for those precepts to be suspended, because they do not allow any measure that was not already possible through general law, simply concrete those measures to provide legal certainty to administrative acts, to the courts that should interpret them and to citizenship. The Court also found that there are autonomous regulations in other communities, such as Balearics, which were not used by the State, with identical contents, and, in this case, the Central Government has not acted in this regard. This was the stage. Well, what happened? Well, after this, finally the Council of Galicia agreed with the Government of Spain on the only point that remained in dispute, which was that of vaccination; an agreement that could have been reached since the beginning without need of all the peripesity that suffered the norm to the detriment of the Greeks and the Greeks. Now, that article amendment agreement is what is transferred to the Law of Measures, because the State agreement said that such a change would be urgent, and that's why it goes into the Law of Measures. Don't manipulate yourself, Mr. Francisco. And, Mrs. Rodil, you also make a speech here about the new working conditions of the family doctor's staff who are not certain. Look, the new category has been presented to the sectoral table; don't lie, don't lie, because it has been presented; and the administration logically has to be open to the agreements they will have to negotiate. This category is created by urgency, and therefore it would not be necessary, but, despite that, the Government made this presentation to the sectoral table. This incorporation of staff into the new category will be delayed because it is necessary to negotiate with the sectoral table, Mrs. Rodil. We must specify the jobs that will be offered to the new category, its characteristics, the scope of work, the day-to-day, determine a system of selection adjusted to the urgency and situation, the singularity and the functions to be developed, and, if so, to which the Law finally provides measures on the selection system, publish the call for the selection process for fixed access, and in that call will include the specific jobs offered and its characteristics. Look, the incorporation into the new category of jobs as a regular statuary will be totally voluntary. The posts in the new category will not prevent it from continuing to incorporate staff into the current conditions, and for reasons of necessity and urgency that we all know the jobs in the future category from the beginning with mixed work in health centres and CAP, and will access them voluntarily -- Mrs. Rodil, no one will force them -- and through a public summons, of course. And I'm also telling you that this is a single mixed-service job, with a mixed benefit that's not a novelty either. You've missed the truth here. At present, the staff destined for a health center -- which is what is called the already-ordinary provision -- can already carry out voluntary guards in a CAP, and vice versa -- well, of course, and it is also voluntary to incorporate that new staff figure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They don't manipulate, that's not necessary. Look, how important political coherence is! Coherence is a value that is transmitted by example, it is the value that makes sense to fidelity, honesty, sincerity and other values that the Socialist Party lacks, for example. You, who legislate the coup of decree, come here to rip your clothes now with the law of measures. Do you know how many royal decrees laws have passed the Government of Pedro Sánchez? So look, more than a hundred; specifically, today, from June 2018 to today, 104 royal decrees. Yes, yes, Mr. Francisco Rivera. Do you know how many Mr. Mariano Rajoy, who was so criticized for Mr. Sánchez for ten and a half years he's been ruling, in front of three and a half that Mr. Sánchez is leading? Well, look, 103. So you come here talking about your own legislative technique or inappropriate with this baggage. The truth is, it's really amazing. That's what's called political hypocrisy, zero coherence, lords, zero coherence. [[Applause]] To me, if you ask me if I'm satisfied with this legislative technique tool, you know, no, I've said it many times. It doesn't satisfy me, it's not the best instrument, but it's also fair to acknowledge that thanks to this law there are a lot of problems and a lot of issues that create difficulties in the application of some law, in the handling of some issues in which citizenship demands solutions. And we're here to solve people's problems and not to generate more. And in a context... No, I know you're very funny, you come here as a monologueist, you lack the truth, you manipulate legislation, but I think it's important to know what the real reality and the bottom of this law is. [[Murmurs.]] In a context of triple crisis -- health, economic and social -- public representatives are obliged to put in place all the measures within our reach to solve the problems that people have in these three areas, that our neighbours and neighbors live, and that they put us here, to solve problems, not to create them. And the law of measures allows you to address the three mistakes: readjust, reactivate and recover. Re-adjust legislation to help economic re-activation, to achieve economic recovery. You don't like this legislative technique? But they don't offer any alternatives either to fix the pandemic problems. What they do is to create distrust in a legislative text, a text that is not hidden, nothing unusual, does not steal the debate, and proof of this is that we are here today discussing, and after this debate we will have the debate in committee, we will have a debate, we will have a saying that we will return to this plenary and we will go back to the debate on that statement that we have approved in committee. And you say that you can't meet with the affected groups. Look, this majority parliamentary group meets with all the groups that have requested us to meet. Yes, of course, Mrs. Rodil. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know who didn't meet? The Socialists were very entertained with primarys, of course, so they didn't have time to do what they had to do. And you also met; did you, Mrs. Rodil, give her time to meet all of them? Of course, then they don't come here to lie and say that there wasn't time to meet with the affected groups, because we at least had it, you think, too, maybe, other people didn't because they were more entertained in solving their problems, not the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Look, Mr. Francisco, I insist on what I say every year. You come here with the mantra... How? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u121	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u122	Well, you come with the Socialist Party's speech, don't you? At the moment I'm still one, I think it was the same speech your partner had. But well, you insist on saying it's an unconstitutional legislative technique. And that's not true, because a connection to tax or financial matters is not required by the Constitutional Court. There's a ruling I recommend, 36/2013 of the Constitutional Court. But there is another, 76/1992, where you can verify that the true spirit of the Constitutional Court is that there is a connection to tax or financial matters. But this sentence, Mr. Francisco -- I told you last year, and as you know or should know, and I think you're starting to have a little bit of bad faith saying these things here -- it applies to the State Budget Act, not to autonomous laws. In Galicia the law of measures is an ordinary law, and this is no author or doctrine that denies it or questions it, Mr. Francis. This law absolutely respects the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. But the most serious thing is that where you are governed by the Law of Measures is a useful tool. I went to see what happened in Valencia, where you rule with the nationalists. What about Valencia? Ah! for in Valencia they amend thirty-five laws and four laws decrees, and the councilman of Fairy says it's very useful because he solves many issues both administratively and to solve problems that caused the pandemic. We can't do it here in Galicia. You socialists depend: in Valencia, yes; in Galicia, no. Coherence, Mr. Francisco, coherence. Look, we believe that, indeed, the law is necessary to address the three crises I spoke about: health, social and economic. We have a family medical staff problem in primary care, and that's why we've created an extraordinary new category of primary care optional. The qualification of the health technician category is also incorporated. In the social field, we strengthen conciliation measures. We give legal protection to the free of children's schools from 0-3 years. We improve the conditions of transfer for public employees who are victims of gender-based violence. We have enabled an extraordinary procedure for direct taxation of protected housing and public promotion to the most vulnerable people. A new cooperation fund is set up for municipalities that wish to acquire and promote new housing for social rent. Exemption from the requirement to be aware of tax obligations to beneficiaries of lease bonds which are considered vulnerable collectives. And as for the economic crisis, here, in fact, there are two models: that of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party, which is to raise taxes, and that of the People's Party, which is to propose in the Law of low tax measures that you don't like. And, Mrs. Rodil, you, in your partial amendments, which we know, raise the IRPF to middle income, even though they disguise it from raising the tax to the rich. That mantra, too, is on its own, and you, as good heirs of the Podemos tides, are still with the mantra of raising taxes to the rich, a fictitious progression, Mrs. Rodil. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, of course, then, tributes to the large commercial surfaces, but who gave the approval of all the commercial surfaces in Galicia? It was the Galego Nationalist Block, which was responsible for the Industry Council when all commercial surfaces were opened in Galicia, Mrs. Rodil. What hypocrisy, Mrs. Rodil! [[Applause]] The tax on empty dwellings, like good heirs who are the Tides of Podemos, for of course they vote against anti-okupas media and propose measures to punish legitimate owners. Welcome to the wind cannon. Also when you were ruling there was a... you were processing wind farms, Mrs. Rodil, and why didn't you put that cannon in? You saw the People's Party put on a wind canon, you were more interested in the businessmen in the sector. Look, your proposals always come up with taxes, not just the rich. Does it seem little to you that citizens pay for light, gas, diesel, gasoline and all the products that have been affected by the rise of the IPC? Is that fairer to you, Mrs. Rodil? Is that fairer to you, Mrs. Rodil? For that is the Government that supports the Galego Nationalist Block, that is its fair and equitable model, the Government of the Socialist Party of Madrid, which constantly supports the Galician Nationalist Block by giving the button of itself to all those royal decrees I spoke about earlier. Look, about the need for the ESC report, Mr. Francis, I don't have much time, I refer to the bulletin of last year's debate. Regarding public exposure, exactly the same thing; I refer to last year's newsletter, because the answer is the same. And you come here with the same speech. What I would rather tell you, Mr. Rodil, is that I don't know if, as a monologueist, it will have a future; now, as a jury, it will not. Because look, you came here to say that a new regulation is created, when it's not true; it's just a particularization of the law -- take note, because then you don't know what law is -- 1/2021, January 8th, planning the territory of Galicia, for a certain type of infrastructure related to sustainable mobility (peonis, cyclists, dissuasory parking, public transport reserved platforms, stops or public transport stations), precisely with the objective of promoting sustainable mobility. This figure, which is approved in the Measurements Act, allows you to speed up the execution of the infrastructures for sustainable mobility, so that the Galician Union and also the municipalities -- and there you also rule -- contains a tool to be able to develop swiftly, among other things, the actions included in the next generation program of the European Union, which is something important and urgent, and can't wait because the Government of Spain imposes very strict deadlines for its execution. Look, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a law that provides an important solution to capture professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u124	... yes, I am finished, Mr President -- of primary care and thus address staff shortages, intensify equality policies, reduce tax pressure to the sectors most affected by the crisis and modify the legislation that improves the implementation of mobility, forestry and rural policies. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We now turn to the replication of the amending parliamentary groups. First of all, you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u126	Good afternoon, again. Indeed, I've been in the Galician Parliament for a year, and I've given Google to know how many years you've been and the truth is that I haven't been able to find the data, the browser has gone crazy looking for it. Yeah, I don't know. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Look, you don't like the Measurements Act, you said it last year, that you didn't like the Measurements Act, but, at last, to dislike the Measurements Act, you've extended it with a lot of assiduousness from the Government of the United States. I insist: since 2017 through this legislative mechanism -- which you don't like, because you like the most amendments to the Law of Measures, actually -- you've changed one hundred twelve laws. And to you, at last, they don't like this kind of legislative technique; if they like it, I don't know, I don't know what would happen here. Well, of course, I agree with the BNG that the Law of measures and the measures that are modified through this law are a wet role in the light of the amendments which the People's Party makes us in the amendments to the articulated. This is because we know precisely that the amendments by the People's Party will be voted on, debated and approved. The People's Party is therefore amending the Government to set the position of the Government itself, without allowing the opposition to amend its own political position as an amending group. So, a legislative trap that you use, repeatedly use, year after year, to change all kinds of rules. Of course, in the fiscal field the Galician Union presents a change in the scope of the IRPF, establishes five sections, creates a new one, the six, and comes the People's Party in its amendments and again reduces the tranches, remaining in five, eliminates the income stretch to the liquidable base of EUR 100,000. Obviously, as the Galician Union contemplates, it eliminates the possibility that it will be taxed with a wider marginal type for that liquidable base type. And in the end that's what's going to be finally approved. Therefore, Mrs. Paula Prado, this seems to us, of course, to use and abuse the absolutely inexhaustible norm, because it does not allow the Socialist Group or opposition groups to amend their own legislative project, which you amend, to the Council's own Law of Action of Galicia. And that's basically what happens. [[Applause]] Well, finally. Yeah, yeah, I know. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I don't know if Mr. Paz wants to say anything too. In any case, we obviously do not agree with your tax system or support your tax system; of course, we have different tax models. I respect your tax model, a tax model that is based basically on that high incomes, the richest, pay less; that is, not taxes as an element of income redistribution, but as a regressive element of your tax model project. And with regard to the Public Health Act, what happened here in Parliament in this plenary was that the Public Health Act was amended and told the Galician Board that this amendment involved risks to certain fundamental rights that citizens have, and that, therefore, Mr.Núñez Feijóo could not challenge the regulatory capacity that the Galician Union does not have, that it has the State, which is the modification of an organic law, which is logically not of the Galician Union, or to impose a state of alarm in Galicia, which is what he intended to impose the obligation or to impose measures through a state of alarm in Galicia, that Mr.Núñez Feijóo has no powers to execute... say? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anyway, I don't know, I don't know what he's saying, I don't know what he's saying. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Finally, what the Constitutional Court has said here is that this legislative amendment to the Public Health Act which introduced the Galician Union is suspended because it violates or can violate fundamental articles and rights of citizens, of which the Galician Union lacks competence to do so. And that's what happens. And now you come with the Law of tax and administrative measures modifying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u128	...in the sense that it is established in that bilateral government- junta commission of Galicia, the article in question, where the Socialist Group already told you that there was abuse by the Board by imposing a regulation that violated fundamental rights. Or is it that forcing citizens to vaccinate themselves, aside from changing organic law or from being established through the law regulating the state of alarm, is it not a unconstitutional attribution of the Galician Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u130	Well, I'm done now, Mr President, saying that to us this Law of measures, of course, imposed year after year, we don't like it as a legislative technique, and we refuse it. That's why we're proposing the whole amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u131	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u132	Thank you, President. I, three questions, for ordering ideas a little bit. The first one. Mrs Prado spoke of political coherence. I'm going to tell you about hypocrisy and total and absolute cynicism, because you came here and repeat it every year: we don't like it, we don't like it. They love it! So, I would ask them to at least have the courage to go ahead and defend their political positions with all the consequences. And the proof that they love this procedure is that it's also the way they choose to change this country's legislation in the vast majority of cases and that they create specific sectoral legislation on mobility and infrastructure. [[Applause]] Point the page, which is not clear, Mrs. Prado. Page 15, exposition of motives... because I don't know if I'll have a lot of future as a jurist, but for now I know how to read and from sight I don't complain. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Then, page 15, chapter 4: "He approaches various measures in terms of infrastructure and mobility. The chapter is divided into three sections. In relation to the first section, it contains a series -- blah, blah -- "in subjects that currently lack a specific legislation that regulates them." You yourself recognize that the legislation on transport to cover the shame and chalice that took you to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia with the Cambalache of the road transport sector, Mrs. Prado, is in the accompanying law of 2017 and in this accompanying law of 2022. So, for now, we know, Mrs. Prado, we know. [[Applause]] And to show, as it seems, I still, what do you want me to tell them? Chapter 4, Section I, Article 18 et seq., Mrs Prado, which specifically regulates this sectoral area in the accompanying laws. Come here, bring a specific legislation, dialogue with the organizations, agents and all the actors that represent the sector of something that is fundamental to the future of this country, which is transport, which is mobility, which is the infrastructure, beyond -- I insist -- the buses or the few roads on which the Government of Greece has competence. Because if we talk about infrastructure and we talk about mobility, we have to talk about AP-9, we have to talk about AP-53, we have to talk about trains, ports and airports, and Galicia has no political capacity there. Sovereignty is also that: to be able to decide on the infrastructures of the country itself. [[Applause]] But they have a conception of dialogue and negotiation that is also very clear, very palpable, very evident in these legislative procedures, in these accompanying laws, and in particular in this. It was mentioned here that there was a lot of business, uh!, with trade union organizations for that new contract that it is mandatory to provide such assistance at the health center and at the same time at the continuing point of attention, at the CAP, but there we see the dialogue or how they conceive dialogue and negotiation. Because at the sectoral table on October 19 you told them what there was, they didn't even present the draft and the text so they could discuss it or want to amend it. That's the conception that you have of dialogue, negotiation and -- if you allow me -- also democracy. The second one, he said, we're here to solve people's problems. He said he modified the same article seven times, article 22 of the Fire Prevention Act, which is a law that does not remain of its original version or title, and they never brought a specific reform proposal. It was through the Law of Mounts of 2012 and through successive occasions of the accompanying laws to budgets. I insist: that's the only evidence that they have no idea where they're going, there's no political project, there's no horizon, they're going like a rocket without a rod, so they don't know where you're going... you pull it out, that if we don't fix ourselves again for the coming year. [[Applause]] Third, indeed, I from my seat gave the reason to Mrs. Paula Prado that the amendments of the Popular Parliamentary Group reflect this hearing capacity with collectives affected by the original draft budgets of the Galician Union. I gave him the reason because those amendments show it. In the Law of the wind sector. In the Law of the wind sector there was a proposal to distance air carriers and wind farms from their homes a mile away. And who ordered to stop? Who touched the horn? Because you don't feel an ex-environmental adviser on a free board of directors, you don't even hug yourselves, man, with directors of known electric companies, like Iberdrola, in exchange for nothing. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Those amendments in which you now leave that distance of a mile without effect for the wind farms already admitted or for repotentials that will assume the installation of 200-metre-high aerogeers respond to those interests of those collectives that have names and names, and it's called the electric lobby, a friend of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u133	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Voting of amendments to the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u134	Having not requested the Government's intervention at the moment, we have now moved to the vote on amendments, to the joint vote on all amendments to the draft law on tax and administrative measures: that of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, with document number 24585, and that of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, with document number 24568. So we vote. Joint vote on the amendments to the total refund, of the GGs. PP. of the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block, to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. The amendments are therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-11-22-DSPG057.u135	This bill continues the parliamentary process. We're done with the session. Good afternoon.
