ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u1	We resume the session with the second item on the agenda. Like the President of Galicia, at the request of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to report on the measures to be taken to curb the third wave of cover-19, the vaccination plan and the measures to compensate the economic sectors most affected by the pandemic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u2	Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u3	Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Socialist Party, the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician People's Party. Exitus by coronovirus, 92-year-old woman. I was suffering from other basic pathologies. Exitus, 66-year-old man. He was entering a conventional hospital facility. Exitus, 84-year-old woman who entered the plant with previous pathologies. Exitus, man of 69. He was diagnosed with coronavirus a few days ago. Three exits: 94-year-old, 97-year-old and 91-year-old. Exitus, 63-year-old man who died in an emergency. Exitus, 28-year-old man. I came from the residence of people with Mos' disabilities. Exitus, 46-year-old man admitted to ICU without previous pathologies. Exitus, 37-year-old pregnant woman. As you all know, exit means death. Well, up to 1,659 death messages are the ones that have reached our phones and the health care personnel in charge of pandemic management in recent months. Exitus in Santiago, 87-year-old woman. This is the last one we've just received. The condolences of the whole Greek people to their families and their friends. [[Applause]] Behind every success there is a family that suffers and also a team of professionals who get frustrated, because even decades of experience prepare to face a situation like ours in full depth. I do not make this reflection in the first person, but rather think of thousands of workers every day who are forced to deal with the effects that the virus causes in hospitals and health centres, in the caregivers of the most vulnerable people, in homes, in homes and in the experts who advise us to accurately adjust the restrictions of each phase. Ladies and gentlemen, the unprecedented crisis we are living in is an enemy challenge for all, without exception. It demoralizes and tires indiscriminately, I know, but my duty remains to remember that it is the most important. We don't all pay the consequences of the pandemic to the same extent, but we all have the same common goal: to preserve human lives by ensuring that hospitals don't collapsing so that citizens who need attention are guaranteed at all times. For that to be possible, we make decisions that affect business -- sure that sometimes in some cases irreparable -- we make decisions that limit social relations by preventing everyone from sharing with those we want for a time that we will never be able to recover, we make decisions that shorten freedoms and rights in many areas of life. And no matter how hard and undesirable this is, it's not the first thing we should think about -- neither the public officials, who are obliged to provide the decisions, nor even the citizens who are affected by them --. All the efforts we're asking the Greeks for are so that other Greeks can always have a breathing machine available in an ICU or a healthcare professional prepared to assist them. That, in our opinion, is the first. That's why we do it and we will always do it, whenever necessary and with the intensity it requires every moment. It was 91.178 citizens of Galicia who had received a hidden diagnosis since last March. Most of them, 91 percent, passed her home with mild symptomatology -- from a baby of a few months to a man of 108 --. But many took hospital care to overcome it, and, of course, received it. As for the pandemic, 997 people survived the coronovirus after receiving care in intensive care units -- they were also of all ages -- and 6,807 people between 4 months and 106 years of age went out on some hospital floor. Despite having nearly 25% of the largest, the most vulnerable, we are Spain's lowest mortality peninsula community for every 100,000 inhabitants since the onset of the pandemic until today in March. Fortunately, there are thousands of cures throughout these months. And the priority is to continue to give that answer and that in Galicia we should never give any life for loss without first doing whatever health is possible. [[Applause]] Many of you, ladies and gentlemen -- and I'm sure many citizens too -- may think this introduction is unnecessary. However, I believe that more than ever it is necessary to recognize. We have to recognize why we are having a moment of enormous difficulty. Always -- directly to the Greeks and also in this House -- I noticed the pandemic with the greatest transparency and rigour of what I am capable of -- and in a special way in the phases of greater gravity, as we live -- because no problem is at the height and much less no ruler is at the height if he hides in the worst moments. No one here imagines that health professionals have given everything in this crisis. What they do offering the best of themselves, without rest, overcomes with growth what we all do. But each one, in the exercise of our responsibilities, must answer a question: is it time to get profiled, hide in voices that mitigate self-exhaustion? is it time to dedicate oneself to other things instead of being 100 percent in the fight against the pandemic, thinking about rates of popularity rather than doing so in rates of infection or hospital occupation? Of course not, and that's why Galicia is there and there will continue to be a government in which no one hides himself. If you have to make tough decisions, you take them -- starting, of course, for me --. I want to make it clear today that Galicia is immersed in the third wave of the pandemic. And, like the rest of the world, she's suffering more virulence than before. Today there are 21,193 active cases and, despite the fact that in the last few days the increase will be mitigating, the fact is that the contagions continue to progress at a high rate. As a result, pressure increases in ICUs -- today there are 178 people, equally, surprisingly, who did not peak in April --. And there's 1,093 being taken care of in the plants of the hospitals, which are already above the peak of the first wave. It is true that we remain in better position than the national average, because the community has an incidence of fourteen days per 100,000 inhabitants of 726 versus 894 on average, because the incidence of seven days is 405 versus 421 on average, and because our community is the fourth autonomous community with less pressure in intensive care units -- half as much as in the rest of Spain --. In Spain 41,2 % of ICU beds are occupied; and in Galicia, 23.7 %. And we're also still one of the least occupied communities in hospital beds. In Spain it is more than 24 %; and in Galicia, 15.3%. And, as I told you, we continue to be among autonomous communities with lower mortality, the lowest mortality rate in all autonomous peninsula communities. But I assure you that's not a consolation, because, despite being better than the average, progress is worrying us. And why is the level of contagion now higher than the previous waves? In my opinion, for two reasons. The first is why the fact that throughout the pandemic, the incidence of cod is being lower in Galicia than in the rest of Spain. The number of people infected in Galicia is half the number of people infected in Spain. In fact, the prevalence in our autonomous community is 4.5 percent while the percentage is more than double at the national level. We are the community, along with Canary Islands, with a lesser prevalence and, consequently, we are more exposed because there is a smaller immunity. The second reason is that the progression of the virus for weeks now reveals that unfortunately the new strains that are circulating are not going to be marginal, as we were initially told. They're already affecting them, and the forecast is that they keep increasing continuously. These are the reasons why protection needs to be strengthened and why we've been forced to continue to tighten the restrictions for weeks. No matter how difficult it is to take measures that compromise the future of a lot of people, of a lot of people, we don't hesitate to adopt them when data requires it and when experts recommend it. This is how we have acted since all this began and how we will continue to act until all this is over. To count on a clinical committee that evaluates the evolution of the pandemic in real time and technically is a resource that we are not going to give up at any time. What other criterion is more authorized than the opinion of health experts, gentlemen? Who better than they can guide us to adjust restrictions at every epidemiological moment and every territory? Thanks to the thirty-five experts who advise us from the first moment until now we've always tried to be powerful but also provided in the implementation of the measures. We adopt them in territories where possible, distinguishing according to the incidence. We apply them gradually because each level of closure has a social cost of great dimensions. And when the situation demands it, we tighten the restrictions across the community, as we've done since the third wave started -- and with more emphasis this week on the measures that come into force --. With this vision, in recent months we have been making decisions progressively. In November, in the face of a high incidence, we stepped up restrictions on the establishment of perimeter almonds around cities, the closure of the hostel in cities -- a measure that did not take many communities with higher incidences than Galicia -- and banning meetings with non-cohabitants -- being the first community that adopted this measure, which is very long and would adopt others like Balearics, Valencia, Rioxa, etc. --. When the situation improved and the curve shifted in December, we acted, therefore, by distinguishing between areas. We set up a model with four levels of restriction based on objective epidemiological criteria of incidence and population size. And we followed this model to update the restrictions twice a week -- every Tuesday and Friday -- by relieving them or hardening them in real time. At Christmas we bet on being the most restrictive community after Valencia. While the Government proposed opening up mobility for fifteen days for family reasons, here it was allowed in seven. In other autonomies the hostel closed at night and at night at one in the morning. Not here, it continued all the time until 2300 hours. Even in cities like Vigo, Pontevedra and Ferrol, the hostel closed at 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. every day at Christmas parties. And in the face of new reticences, since January 4th, we've been graduating again from restrictions by limiting mobility and the exits of residences, and raising the level of restrictions in the most affected areas. On January 13 we are isolated in the area of its county 64.3% of the population of Greece in the face of the worrying evolution of virtually all health areas. Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is versatile and progressive, because always applying without change the same rule could unnecessarily penalise some territories or underestimate the viral threat in others. Of course, doing this exercise is not easy, because all -- also the members of the clinical committee -- we are very aware that the measures we are applying affect a very important part of the Greek families and therefore a very important part of Galician workers. But there is no doubt if it is necessary to preserve everyone's health, and that is why ten days have passed since the first general measures were taken on 13 January -- necessary to assess the epidemiological impact of these measures, and despite the fact that positivity has been reduced from 12.2 % to 9.2 % -- we understand, based on the opinion of the experts, that it was appropriate to ask citizens to take one more step and make a more effort: to prohibit meetings of non-accompanied people and visits to the sick in general hospitals, to adjust surgical activity, which affects people who are also ill to heal, to close the hostel completely, to restrict mobility to the municipal term, to change the schedule of shops and to close shopping centres for weekends, to prevent the normal development of university life and to suspend cultural and sports activities. Ladies and gentlemen, these are extremely difficult decisions, I assure you. At the beginning of this appearance we're talking about people, people the virus is leading. But there are also people, entire families, suffering from restrictions, and they are also victims that we have present. They cannot understand that there are Members and Members in this Parliament who speak so lightly about total confinement. First, because they know perfectly well that making that decision depends not on the Autonomous Community but on the central government that supports it. Secondly, because unfortunately the measures in force are already very close to that. And third, because collective aspiration should be aimed at a closure like March is the last resort. If by any of you were, our community would have been confined since March. Do you think at some point about the consequences that this would have and you don't care? Ladies and gentlemen, when the incidence makes it necessary, and when the experts point out it, it does not shake our hands to take the measures they propose to protect us from health, but we do not hesitate to authorize the different degrees of openness when the situation allows. That's the way we're dealing with the unprecedented crisis that we're living in and we'll continue to make decisions that are proportionate and adapted to the epidemiological progression of each phase. I'm telling you with humility, because never as much as today as the people who have the responsibility of government do we know that right now is often to indulge in the lesser evil. Graduation of measures not to go through too much or by default is a very complex exercise, and sadly we do not have indisputable and infallible revelations. I wish! We move on an unstable ground, which, however, does not exempt us from acting quickly and resolutely considering saving lives and preventing the collapse of the health system above all, but also thinking the day after, when the pandemic overcomes, and trying to avoid an unprecedented social and economic crisis, an irreversible social and economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, no government has the right at this time to apply for a recess to calmly assess the decisions that are taken, much less have the right to prioritise other goals that are not the health and the social and economic future of all. That's why I want to take advantage of this forum to ask the Central Government again to assume its responsibilities as well. It's sad enough that the central government was in a background in the face of a pandemic in Spain. It is already symptomatic that, at the same time as all Spain lives at the peak of a third wave of great dimensions, we witness the change, nothing more and nothing less, than the Minister of Health for the reasons it produces, or the release of the executive's members in electoral campaign acts. But the most serious thing is that, above all, communities are denied the instruments we see needed from the first line in which we are. What's happening with his refusal to expand the curfew -- that we ask for communities of different colors -- is a constant throughout the pandemic. Evidence is denied and measurements remain. There are autonomous administrations, with all directions, I insist -- nationalist, socialist or popular -- that we sense emergencies and there's a central retardatory administration that neither governs nor lets rule. There's a whole rosary of episodes with this common denominator. It was said that the Central Government would supply us with protective material and we finally went to the communities that we had to do. It was said that the mandatory use of the mask would not be necessary, until it was impossible to postpone it any longer. It was said again that there were no aerosols, but there are. It was said that the new strains would be marginal and now it is recognized that they will end up being dominant in a very short time. And if errors are unfortunately pertinent, even more decisions inspired by short-term political criteria. Why was it still important for the first wave of March, because it was to be held on March 8th?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u4	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u5	Why is the central government now changing the current framework in line with the severity of the data, much worse than those of Germany, France or Italy, where their state executives take action? Maybe because we have to celebrate at all costs a few elections in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u6	Quiet. Quiet, please! Then he'll talk to his spokesman. Quiet, now you have to listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, with the same loyalty as Galicia has always shown, delaying the self-elections called, I believe that the central government must recapitulate and guide itself, not by what communities can tell you, but by its own acts of the past. In October, with an incidence of 500 per 100,000 inhabitants in Madrid, the Government intervened in Madrid. Now, with a much worse situation throughout Spain, with 894 incidents, it does not act and also prevents the autonomous communities from acting. You must do it, you must act. There are several important aspects in which we understand that the state executive has to contribute to how we can respond to the crisis in an axious and appropriate way. I will try to put them to the President of the Government in the office that we will keep next Friday in Madrid. And what I'm going to tell the President of the Government in relation to the pandemic I say before in Galicia in front of Parliament. First of all, on the above-mentioned curfew, does anyone think that autonomic presidents are proposing to simplify it by whimsical, or by taste? If we're the ones who know the data best, trends and the hospital situation, we should be able to do it if we think it's appropriate. Who's interested in denying it? What health explanation exists to prevent it? Governance clearly delegated to communities cannot be a paper governance. If we have responsibility, we must have the tools to exercise it. Secondly, we continue to move in a policy framework that is not prepared to manage a pandemic for a long period of time. And it's worth noting that we still don't know how much this situation will be extended. Galicia will approve its legislation in this Parliament in the coming days. I think we're right, and I'm still complaining that it's also done at the state level. [[Applause]] Thirdly, I will transfer to the President the need to seek a national consensus on teleworking. It will be, or would be, important in the next few days to do a sort of sort of sort of thing all over the state. Fourthly, Spain has adopted decisions which have finally proved indispensable, and we must avoid it happening again. There is a debate on certain contexts. Should the use of FFP2 masks be mandatory? There are countries that are already applying it, and that has a health implications, an implication of availability and an implication of cost that we must face together. I will therefore ask the President to evaluate this matter at the state-wide level, and to respond promptly to the logical concern of many citizens. The fifth case I will transfer to the President of the Government is the one referred to in the vaccination process. I understand the difficulties of the Government, of course. It's a world problem. The acquisition of vaccines is centralized in the European Union and even the European Union is facing many obstacles. In spite of this, we need to have a defined vaccination schedule from beginning to end. It would be a great help in the preparation of communities, but especially in the confidence of citizens. I hope it's fixed in the next few days and it's also guaranteed in it the fulfilment of a requirement that seems basic to us: the distribution. This must ensure that the vaccines reach the different groups they have made homogenously. In order for them to understand me clearly, one proposal on the table is that the next priority group will be over 80 years old. Well, supply, therefore, must be done as a percentage equivalent to that target population. If Galicia is 8.2 % older than 80 years of age in Spain, it accounts for 8.2 % of the vaccines in the coming weeks. On the contrary, they would be penalizing the largest of the older communities over those of the others, and I give the fact that no one can accept this; as it seems surprising to us to be accepting in the autonomous community that the number of vaccines that have been dispensed to the communities since December is only 5% of the vaccines distributed in Spain being our population 5.7%. If the vaccines were transmitted at least according to the population's criteria, more than nine thousand additional citizens would be vaccinated in Galicia. Finally, I will ask the President of the Government to set objective criteria for the funds, the funds allocated to the autonomous communities. They must, on the one hand, expand and bear in mind that there are a lot of the areas of spending that we are enduring autonomy. To give them an example, it doesn't seem logical that only the communities assume exclusively the cost of helping the self-employed, micro-enterprises and hostage in times of closure. On the other hand, the distribution method must also be transparent. So far he's been acting through the finished facts. The funds are distributed without explaining why the accounts are distributed, without estimate a priori what the additional amount is needed, and with changing criteria that are increasingly distant from those agreed by everyone in the system of self-financing. That's right, criteria change, but curiously they always make the same. There are more resources for communities with the highest incomes and, chance!, more resources for communities where the central government's parliamentary partners govern, than they defend themselves verbally and, of course, contrary to what the European Union recommends. Ladies and gentlemen, if the criteria of the autonomous financing system were to be applied, Galicia would have received 570 million more, almost 600 million more, which we should receive according to what we need -- and not to the Union, but to the Greeks --. I therefore believe that we must convince the Government to introduce corrective mechanisms that compensate for this obvious loss of resources in the funds up to the time distributed to solve it in the funds yet to be distributed. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can make these requests legitimately, with the legitimacy of being fulfilling our duty as regards our responsibilities as autonomy, and also to those which the Central Government has decided to delegate. Spain's autonomy is demonstrating great maturity and a great commitment in the most critical moments that Spain has lived in from a health point of view for a hundred years. And I don't distinguish from political colors, because in all communities it's working with the utmost implication. The Greeks can be sure that it will continue to be this way, regardless of the threat of coronavirus at every stage. And regardless of whether we have more or less help, we'll keep up with the citizens. Of course, we will continue in the field of health, and in this sense I want to move them that the system is better prepared to respond to this third wave. First, it's better prepared because it's still in force -- it's never been repealed -- the contingency plan approved by the Government of the Union in March -- that, as you know, it wasn't necessary to deploy it completely but that we keep to apply it to the extent that it might be necessary -- ; secondly, because we have more developed care protocols and more hospital capacity -- we have increased, for example, the beds of intensive care units by 70% compared to the month in March, at the beginning of the pandemic -- and thirdly, because we have another very important advantage over the first: we have a lot more diagnostic capacity. So for us to get an idea of this, on April 5, at the peak of the first wave, the percentage of positives that had to be hospitalized was 17.7%; and now, at 5.1%. On April 5, during the first wave, the percentage of positives that entered intensive care units was 3.02 %; now, 0.8 %. This means that much more is diagnosed and more is traced. Not in vain -- I insist -- we are the autonomous peninsula community with the lowest mortality rate per 100,000 inhabitants in Spain. In this regard, I would like to thank the efforts of all the people who are doing this work, because they certainly deserve it. On January 23rd -- the last of the comparative official data published by the ministry -- the diagnostic test rate carried out in Galicia was 495 per 100,000 inhabitants. The Spanish average was 361 per 100,000 inhabitants. That day we did some 13,000 tests, and yesterday we did 18,000 tests -- between PCR and antigens --. We now do more tests on a day than we did at the beginning of the pandemic a week. Last week we passed the 16,000 tests -- yesterday, 18,000 tests --. And it must be remembered, in addition, that the ministry doesn't count PCR pooling tests in saliva, in which Galicia is a pioneer -- more than 144,000 PCR tests are uncalculated --. The other big difference with the previous waves -- besides that we now diagnose better, we avoid plant income, ICU income and mortality is still Spain's smallest in peninsula terms -- is that we now have a vaccine. That vaccine gives us hope that, once this third critical moment has passed, the future can be lighter. It's true that that moment hasn't arrived yet because the vaccines we've received are for now few, unfortunately -- just like in all European regions --. But Galicia is ready to administer them at the same rate as they supply them. We have the capacity to dispense 100,000 vaccines every day; that is, to immunize 100,000 Welsh people every day. If we get the doses to vaccinate all day, we'll do it every day. If the vaccines were enough, we could vaccinate 100 percent of the population of Galicia in a time of between eight and ten weeks, we could immunize the entire population of Galicia in two or two months and a half months. That is, in the three weeks of restrictions that we have just passed and that are expected to end on February 17, we could vaccinate, if we had vaccines supplied by the Government of Spain, 20.000 Greeks, 80% of the total population of Galicia. The problem is that so far the amount we receive is much lower: 18,000, 19,000, 20,000, 11,500... these are the amounts we receive per week. These amounts could be administered in two hours -- counting on the full extent of the nursing capacity that we have realized -- or in eight hours using only the 200 nurses currently attending vaccination. [[Murmurs.]] However, he's already hopeful, because he opens a light in the middle of this tunnel in the most vulnerable places, which is why we're starting. It is unquestionable that the residences have been since the beginning of the pandemic one of our greatest sources of concern -- if not the biggest --. The Union has translated this concern into specific measures, and today the residences of older persons and persons with disabilities are the most immunized places in all of Galicia. They were the first centers to receive the vaccine, and they're from the first day after Christmas at the maximum alert level, which suspends residents' exits and limits visits to one week to maintain their emotional well-being. And they count on the highest diagnostic frequency in our community. In the residences there is a tie every three days and they have antigen tests at their disposal to do any type of tie in front of any kind of suspicion. That's why today, we have three times as many active cases among the general population as in the peak of April, we recorded half of the cases in senior homes. It was managed to prevent the virus from entering these centers in much greater measure than before. Next week we will complete the vaccination process in senior homes and start applying the second dose to the first-line health care staff. The week from 8 to 14 will end with the healthcare staff on the first line and, if possible, with group 3 -- the rest of health and social security personnel --. We're also preparing, along with Fegamp, the vaccination of home help personnel, dependent on municipalities and day centers. And we're still pending -- as I've already pointed out -- that the Ministry of Health is carrying out the following steps. Galicia would agree to continue with the age of 80. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the health response, communities are also acting in the face of the economic continence that causes. The next few weeks -- which are undoubtedly going to be tough -- they also urge us to face the difficulties that it generates in all affected businesses. I am aware that there are particularly punished sectors. Many more than we would like to be subject to restrictions that we approve. And behind them there are jobs, there are families, there are workers, there are businesses. We leave aside those we believe essential services, but in reality essential services are all that society demands. One thing is their technical definition in arbitrating measures and another is the essential role, for example, in the hospitality, commerce or culture sector. That's why I want to pass on to them that we will continue to support them through the help we have deployed. That's how we're doing it, and we'll go on. At the beginning of the year Galicia carried aid with an amount of EUR 370 million, direct aid with the most affected sectors and in which it gave priority to speed in its processing. The forecasts placed us in the environment of 150,000 beneficiaries through 157 aid lines, among which attention should be paid to families in a particularly vulnerable situation; the minimization of the economic and social impact of the shelter on tenants -- 100 percent free of charge in public housing -- the shock plan for our tourism sector and employment support actions, economic dynamisation and support for self-employed and pemes. Let me stop especially when it comes to this last point. After we developed the first call with an amount of 86 million euros, last week the Government of Greece presented a second rescue plan for autonomous, micro-pemes and hostel. This new summons presents a number of advantages: the compatibility of the aid received in the first rescue plan -- complete -- that will be absolutely compatible with the second rescue plan; the removal of the requirements -- such as, in the case of self-employed individuals, having recognized the State's provision or, in the case of micro-enterprises, having an ERTE since the declaration of the alarm state; or the increase in amounts, which are barred depending on the decrease in billing. The autonomous administration is making a very important effort to support the sectors that are going through it worse, but I don't hide from them that I would like to count on all the administrations. We're already talking to the local administration to add support to the hostel, and I wish we could make a deal this afternoon. For our part, we have decided to extend from EUR 50 million to EUR 75 million in this second rescue plan, so we will provide more than EUR 150 million in total. [[Applause]] It is not logical for the Union to remain alone in support of the sector affected by this situation and that other administrations should look elsewhere, even covering taxes for carrying out activities that are prohibited. It is not logical for the opposition to demand that the Union take charge of German aid, when it is the German Federal Government that takes care of the aid and does not land it. Let's hold hands to whoever wants to take it, and we'll keep doing it because citizens don't deserve any quiet administration or confusion. Quite a lot of effort is being made in many sectors to add to them the obligation to travel to the doors of different administrations. We should be able to consensualize the answer we give them. All the groups represented in this House have government responsibilities in Galicia, all in the cities, in the deputies... I ask you for your support to wake up a roadmap where we all provide the resources you need. I would also like to count on this Parliament's support to transfer the requests to the Central Government that I had previously made for them. If anyone disagrees, I ask them to tell me which one and why. I hope you don't have any problems reaching a common position for yourself, because at a time like this it doesn't seem reasonable to act any other way. Between a applause we do not ask for and systematic criticism there are spaces for loyalty; loyalty not with a specific government but with the people who are suffering an unprecedented test. I don't ask them for personal or emotional support -- which would also be -- I ask them to at least not limit their role to the short-swimming policy, because the situation demands much more. The moment we live, they urge us to face the pandemic together, not to engage in partisanism. We're in time to collaborate in a collective effort that most citizens do. Because, ladies and gentlemen, along with that clinical committee of known people, with names and surnames, continuously and consistently, with a specific location of their work center -- whether it's in a primary care center, an emergency unit, a public health unit, a preventive medical unit, an infectious unit, whether in intensive care units or internal medicine plants -- together with these professionals, countless unknown Greeks support the work of the Government because they do their daily duty despite the fatigue inherent in this pandemic. The challenge we face -- I insist -- is unprecedented and is also distinguished by affecting all aspects of our life. It's a health challenge, it's a legal challenge, it's an administrative challenge, it's a political challenge, it's a social challenge, it's an economic challenge and it's a personal effort challenge. It's a health challenge that tests our public health system and forces us to fight an unknown and lethal disease. It's a legal challenge, since legislation has tools that can sometimes only be applied by analogy, with a huge legal vacuum -- and even a sanctioner --. It's an administrative challenge because the coronavirus doesn't know about jurisdictions or borders. It is a political challenge because no pattern of conventional behavior applies to events that are living in the world. It is a social challenge because it shakes the foundations of coexistence and sows a logical fear of the population. It is an economic challenge to introduce a fundamental factor of uncertainty that affects the normal functioning of activities. And it's a personal challenge for everyone, for each of us. Enough of citizenship, obliged to keep a constant alert without a definite end point. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two questions that are often asked by the Greeks and which I cannot answer if I want to respect the truth, which is my commitment. The first is: when will all this be done? We don't know. Creating false expectations does not correspond to the relationship between a government and a mature people. We'll defeat the virus, but that hasn't happened yet. If we know that Galicia is deligent in the vaccination process, though that rhythm will depend on the doses that we are all able to provide. This will not end until total vaccination, which -- I insist -- the Galician Health Service undertakes to achieve in eight or ten weeks. But we need the vaccines we don't have. The second question is whether more stringent measures are needed. We don't know either. If we know that, if it's necessary, the board will apply them. Rulership is not a matter of being in government, nor is it a matter of giving intermittent answers according to the convention. Citizens elect us to be government in all circumstances and face possible momentary misunderstandings and also possible misconceptions. Because it's absolutely impossible to be infallible in the face of a situation like the one we live in. There is only one thing in which if I look for the citizen's unbreakable adherence: care must continue as long as it is necessary, so let's not let this disaffect us, let's continue to protect ourselves. Let's not let tiredness make us blend in with those who don't care. Let's keep protecting ourselves. I know that keeping distance is harder, if fit, in a people like ours, made of affection and closeness. That's why the conduct observed by our citizenship is even more commendable. Let's keep protecting ourselves. The spirit that was activated in March must be alive more than ever. And I can assure you that it means for all of us who are looking for the best exit possible a stimulus that we will never thank enough. To all the good Greeks, who are the vast majority, thank you. And they keep protecting themselves. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u8	Thank you, President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We begin the round of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feijóo, today there are 21,293 Welsh people infected with cowardice; 1,093 in hospitals and 178 in intensive care. So necessarily my first words must be of encouragement to them, wishing them a quick recovery. I also want to transfer my solidarity to people who have lost a loved one -- it's 1,659 families who have gone through this painful experience -- which adds to the sadness of knowing that this figure will continue to grow. And I also want to express once again our gratitude and gratitude to the healthcare staff, who continues to make an admirable effort, a exhausted staff, but who continues to give the best to care for us. Finally, I want to thank the Greeks and the Greeks, who have mostly had and are being exemplary, generous and supportive. I want to ask them not to fall into despair even though there's a hard way to go. And their efforts well deserve that both Sánchez and Feijóo leave improvisation and provide solutions. It is disheartening to see at the worst of the pandemic the president of the state campaigning or the president of the Union unable to anticipate. Mr. Feijóo, your intervention today has had a clear part of provocation. Come here, with which you're falling, repeating the argument on the far right... at last, you'll know. In any case, we're not going to fall into his game. You show up in this House a second time -- since you were elected in July -- in relation to the pandemic. The previous appearance was November 11th. Evolution, in just over two months, shows how dramatic the situation is. That day there were 9,860 people infected, today it's 21,293. There were 516 hospitalized people, today it's 1,093. There were 95 at ICU, today it's 178. There were 1,024 people dead, today it's 1,659. I mean, in just over two months, 40% of the fatal victims of the entire pandemic died. And allow me to add two more data. In just twenty-five days 14,530 Welsh and Welsh infected with the virus, twenty-five days! In twenty-five days, 243 people died as a coward in our country. Mr. Feijó, I don't know if this is acceptable to you. Not to us, of course. This data is demolition and shows that the virus runs across the country without control by marking record numbers that, of course, we don't think we can assume as normal and that they're taking us to a situation that reminds us of a first wave where we were confined to which and how. And in this context it is good to evaluate what the president of the Union does. You first did after Christmas was to blame the Greeks and the Greeks without making any kind of self-criticism for their goal of saving Christmas. Then it was from January 13 to January 25 -- that is, almost fourteen days -- crossed by arms, without correcting its actions to a third wave that was advancing like a tsunami at a rate of 1,400 daily contagions. But neither was you able to put on the table the only measure that can root out the dramatic chain of infections, which is a two-week confinement -- expandable if necessary -- as more and more experts, more scientists and more health personnel are asking for. And I ask him, what else has to happen, Mr. Feijóo? How many more contagions does there have to be? How many more people in ICU? How many more deaths to take powerful measures to save lives? Why, Mr. Feijóo, in the first wave we've been closed for three months and today we can't be confined for two weeks to save lives when we have very similar or worse data? Do you think this is a reflection of the slight? No, no, I think the reflection we have to do is about what the consequences are that there is no confinement. What are the consequences? And you must explain to this House why you don't ask the Central Government for a confinement to curb a pandemic that is out of control. Now, in the cumulative incidence, the last data is that there are 726 infections per 100,000 inhabitants. This is the same thing as saying that we almost tripled the threshold that the health system considers to be extremely risky. What situation are we in, gentlemen? In a situation, of course, worrying. And I have to tell you to behave yourself with unheard of political cowardice. Ask the Greeks and the Greeks to self-confined, that is, to do what you cannot ask the president of the state to ask for a confinement. Actually -- you said it and I'm telling you -- it's not the time to get profiled. It's time to make decisions that can save lives most and that, of course, can help us cope with such a difficult situation. And I am convinced that despite his cowardice, Galicia will defeat the virus by the exemplary behavior of most citizens, thanks to the immense work of the health care staff, and thanks to all the people who stand firm in their responsibility for the common good. [[Applause]] And I have to tell you, it seems you haven't learned anything in these months of pandemic. It's still unanticipated, and you're going behind the virus for two or three weeks. It's still installed in propaganda and it's still responsible for citizenship when bad data comes. And he's still taking an economic sector as the head of Turkish to do what he does. You January 13 was saying it was unfair to stigmatize the hostess because it was not proven that there were more contaminations than in other spheres. But it's that January 25th decrees total closure -- that's right, without a real ransom for the sector --. And you can't ask people to shut down their livelihood if there's no real compensation for the losses. And for now all we have are ads, there's nothing published in the CEO of those aids. And that's not worth it when they've been down for ten months. He's got all the hand on the BNG to consensual help. We've already said that more than a week ago, but if we agree that all administrations are helping, with which everyone is contributing 1% -- if the Galician Union sets 1% of its budget, if municipalities and deputies also contribute 1% -- it has our hand held to help at such a difficult time. You also say that family unity is the only safe place, and that, indeed, would be in a situation of confinement. But today, parents and mothers who can be infected at their place of work arrive, children and children who can be infected at school or who can be infected at work. It seems that your concern about the health of the Greeks and the Greeks begins after your work hours are completed. And you know why this is happening? Because once again you are engaged in that false dichotomy of choosing between health and the economy, when it is more than proven that while the pandemic is not controlled, there will be no economic recovery. This became very clear with his strategy of saving Christmas, which is a disastrous result, which leaves us a third virulent wave that in less than a month leaves 241 dead and in economic terms is sinking into the ruin of entire sectors. That's the result of his "We Save Christmas" and put the economy in front of health. And you persist in refusing to demand confinement, which is the most effective measure to curb the pandemic, a step needed to enter economic recovery. It's clear that the curve will be flattened at some point, but the question we have to ask ourselves is, what's the cost? I think this is a necessary reflection at a time like this, in which people's health is at stake. And there's nothing more important. You told us Monday, in your presence in the media, that we had the same tools as before to fight against the pandemic. And you used to say this like it's a matter that doesn't go with you. If we're like ten months ago, Mr. Feijóo, it's a fine to all of your management. If we're like ten months ago, it's because you haven't strengthened public health enough, because you haven't put in place a contingency plan to care for the health of the population beyond the vault, because you haven't changed the current model of senior residences, because you haven't done your homework in terms of tracking, and because today we're still not aware of what the plan of vaccination for the German Government is. Look, this is a very serious subject, so laughing is a very serious topic. [[Murmurs.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] You know what we know? What we know is that you said first they needed a month to vaccinate 40,000 residents and workers. The next day he made a public appearance in which he said that Galicia could vaccinate 200,000; two days later it was 120,000, and today he says in this Parliament it is 100,000. Mr. Feijó, this isn't serious. His word has the same credibility as when he told us there were 6,000 trackers. Don't play with such a serious, important theme, Mr. Feijóo! [[Applause]] And I'm going to finish. The vaccine, indeed, is the great hope to defeat the virus. It will obviously take months to become a reality -- among other things because there are pharmaceuticals that seem to be more dependent on profit than on health --. And this is another of the teachings that the pandemic leaves us: we have to wager a thousand per thousand for science and research from the public sphere, because the scientific knowledge that saves lives must be at the disposal of all mankind and not of profit. And I'm done, Mr. Feijóo -- if you'll allow me just a minute, president, because I think the subject has enough transcendence --. Obviously, my intervention must be necessarily critical with its management in view of the results. BNG's criticisms are not to weaken a government, they are out of loyalty to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Our loyalty to this country is to point out the mistakes and make proposals in a positive way so that we can get out as soon as possible before this crisis. And on that path you'll always have the hand held by the BNG. That's why I want to make four proposals. The first one, Mr. Feijóo, is that we should be brave and not be profiled. Let's put it on the table as more lives can save and that can stop the chain of contagion, that two-week confinement. The second is to reorient the budgets of the Union in two directions: to put in place more means for public health and to rescue the sectors most affected by the crisis. The third is that we have to work from now on in this Parliament for a new model of residence for our seniors and end the shame that you do business with a right to a dignified old age. And finally, agree on a country proposal for fair treatment and direct management of European recovery funds, and that these funds reach the real economy. What's not worth is that the weakest link in the economy is closed, as they're doing with the hospitality, and then they're trying to give you the European help of the strongest, which are the multinationals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u11	These are, Mr Feijóo, positive measures to bring out the country of this crisis, a crisis that has thousands of Greeks and Greeks in distress. And we have an obligation to work so we can get out of this situation as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Caballero Miguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are holding a meeting at a very complex time for our country, for health and for the economy. We're seeing how the third wave of the vault has a hardness, a contundance, and a level of contagion that exceeds the forecasts that have been made in the past few months, or in the last few weeks. And we all have to put the best of ourselves to resist a third wave that questions our health -- and also our country when questioning the economy --. Galicia is in an extreme situation -- we all know -- in a situation with a very worrying number of contagions, with increasing care pressure, with a number of occupied ICU beds that are already in maximum numbers. And, therefore, it is necessary that among all of us put the best of ourselves. And in front of every answer, there has to be the Government of Galicia, which has the powers. It was clear, Mr Feijóo, that you were going to appear in this Parliament, because the extreme and emergency situation in so many places and with so many complications forced you to be in this Parliament. But it also requires that all measures be taken and that we achieve the greatest agreements, the most fundamental ones, in order to be able to respond to such a complex situation. What I think most concerns us all in this House, and all the Greeks and gales, is the health of our people, the health of each one of us, and the health of our neighbors, our families, our loved ones. And that's why we socialists make a policy of responsibility, which we call the whole House. We are not questioning the measures being taken by the Government of the Union at every moment and on the basis of the powers delegated by the state of alarm. We are respecting each of those decisions that are being made, regardless of whether there may be questions or doubts that even on the clinical committee -- and I suppose also in the Greek Government -- imply uncertainties and doubts. But it is clear that this responsibility we must all have. It's time to give a country response to a third wave of the crisis, which marks, of course, at least one first semester of this year 2021 which will be of the greatest complication. The strategy of saving Christmas failed, it failed. We know all the Greeks and all the Greeks -- and I'm convinced that also the members of the executive power in Galicia -- that not all the measures that the posteriori showed were necessary were taken. But we don't want to play after Captains, as the People's Party has done in Congress of Deputies. We want to be responsible. [[Applause]] Because, Mr. Feijóo, that suggestion you made that the important thing was saving Christmas and looking for a prosperous Holy Week failed from top to bottom. Because, besides, with the powers that you, you and the Government of the Union, have a lot of scope for action. Because the same measures that were published yesterday at the CEO -- by the way, two hours before they were vigilant, and I want to remind you of your words, Mr. Feijóo, of when the BOE was delayed in the first wave of the pandemic, in an even more uncertain situation in the face of a virus we didn't know, and how you acted, and now you have that responsibility and complexity to manage -- these same measures that you took two days ago, they were able to take 20 days ago instead of the strategy of saving Christmas. [[Applause]] And, of course, the rate of infection would be very different. But what we want is, of course, to recognize that we have to work with the full capacity to have agreements. There were mistakes. The model applied to save Christmas failed, more things failed, you failed, Mr. Feijóo, when he said that the state of alarm would be demolishing because the great goal was to save Christmas and arrive at Holy Week with Spain and Galicia with incomparable tourist potential. It was an irresponsibility and a mistake of the president of Galicia. You made a mistake when you said systematically that you couldn't give the number of contagions to Galician municipalities, because you said that was extremely dangerous. It was another mistake, another irresponsibility. You also failed when you did not decree a perimeter closure of Galicia, allowing at various times something which was not necessary and which could be facilitated. You guys made a mistake when they gave a number of 6,152 trackers that didn't resist even a few hours because they had to start rectification within a few days. But there were more mistakes. There were 200 vaccines that were placed irregularly, which were used irregularly at the Hospital Complex of Pontevedra. And we also have to explain it and account for what happened. Because there are still residences every day where massive infections are announced -- in the month of January, when they were already using vaccines, in Vimianzo, in Leiro, in Tui... and this weekend there were 50 infections in Sarria --. Something we'll still not do well to not be able to protect, in the homes of older people, those who live there. There are also health errors when in a psychiatric hospital such as the conxo hospital there is a outbreak of infections with the most vulnerable population, which is not for itself to take precautions. And so we want to ask you to get off the pedestal and assume that you have the tender hand of the Socialist Party of Galicia to contribute to an exit for a few months that will be very complex. And that's why we can't help but remember that, after all this scenario, you've come to say something like that, if things weren't right, the responsibility is the Government of Spain or the citizens of Galicia. You are responsible because you have all the necessary skills within the alarm state -- approved at the Congress of Deputies without the support of irresponsible political forces, but there is --. [[Applause]] And we want to tell you that in that question of planning, in which you made a mistake on November 15 -- just a few months ago, two months ago -- you said that announcing from the Ministry of Health that early in 2021 would be vaccines to start putting them on was something you didn't share, that was "a loud announcement" -- textually -- "and that there would be no vaccines" -- according to your estimate -- "until the second quarter of 2021." You made a mistake, and there was a government in Spain who with a compromised strategy managed to have vaccines since December 28th. You recognize to the Government of Spain what work you're doing for vaccines, because you said that until the second quarter of 2021 there would be no vaccines. [[Applause and murmuring.]] Mr. Feijóo, who respects the People's Party the reality of the hemerotheque, because he meets with his irresponsibility is hard, Mr. Tellado. And I wanted to tell them, in addition, that we also don't share that the President of the Board points out that we can't be complicit in so many issues and look for a policy of confrontation. You, Mr. Feijóo, have come to ask the citizen to be implacable against those who fail. And we want to tell you that it is the authorities who are implacable. We don't want a balcony cop, don't put people against people. Most of the Greeks and the Greeks have exemplary behavior in their responsibility. And from the competent authorities we have to assume this responsibility to avoid seeking confrontation. [[Applause]] We cannot share, Mr Feijóo, some of your ideas that seek the conflict with the Government of Spain. You, who said that the vaccine would not reach the second trimester; you, who did not want the state of alarm; you, who have proposed that the curfew from the Health Council should not be applied from the first moment to the whole of the municipalities; you, who also changed the health counsellor throughout this pandemic; you, who came to suggest that for a wear of mask had to cease... Yes, Mr. Feijóo, do you not remember when a plastic surgeon in the Vigo Hospital Complex ceased because you were asking for masks? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've been put to death, your health adviser. [[Murmurs.]] And so we want to tell you that in all the approaches you have to respond to your irresponsibility and conflicts. Look, Mr. Feijóo, you're raising doubts about the vaccination plan. On December 23rd, all communities met and accepted without complaints the vaccination plan. Distribution is done by objective population at each stage. If we had more first-line health personnel in Galicia today, they would be getting more vaccines at this stage. And when the 80-year-old phase comes, the vaccines will arrive for all the older ones on the same line as the rest of the communities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, therefore, to be playing with vaccines, with the irresponsibility of being against the state of alarm, looking for all guilt outside the responsibilities of the Galician Union, shows a government that does not want to meet its statutory obligations and competences. [[Applause]] And we want to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that yesterday you decreed rules that close 40% of commerce in Galicia, they put the lockdown in the hostel, in the trade, in the sport, in the culture. And in the DOG where they close this, there's not only one help so that these businesses can arrive at the end of the month. A lot of announcements, but little reality. Because in the entire 2020 balance, numbers are numbers and they're not stories. [[Applause]] The entire 2020 balance was explained here in detail by the Employment and Equality Adviser: it closed with 22 million euros of direct aid from the Board to self-employed and micro-enterprises, 22 million euros when rents fell by 6,000 million euros! [[Applause]] Today you announce an increase in a second rescue plan, which was another announcement, which does not yet exist, which is not published in any official newspaper. It's the policy of the continuous announcement. And we ask you to spread out all the capacities of budgets that need to redirect on all issues that will not be able to be addressed to the country's priorities, because there is a government of progress in Spain that is facing the fight against the virus and also support for autonomous communities by remitting funds -- 224 million for economic reactivation in 2020, more than 1,100 million euros that will reach the budgets of the Union in 2021 between European funds and state funds plus -- a government that wants to protect people and that gives the Government of the United States of Galicia the powers and funds to act. [[Applause]] What's not right, Mr. Feijóo, is not the fault of everyone but anyone. You're the ones who like to put on the medal when things go well, but when things go wrong, it's the government of Spain or the Greek citizenship. Government Galicia and make the necessary decisions to protect people and save the economy. And we want to tell you why this second clear wave is of great concern to us. His party partner, Ayuso -- good colleague of his -- said he didn't contain with her to ruin the lodge anymore. I understand that we have to take all precautions and not demonize the hostel, because in the months of October and November we didn't have these levels of infection and the hostel had a certain level of activity. The problem came by the strategy of saving Christmas, but now, when restrictive measures are taken, we ask you to accompany each restrictive measure of mobility, every close of business, every lock on economic activity, with a backup package for anyone to stay behind, to protect people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u15	We are in the policy of responsibility, Mr Feijóo. We are not questioning health protection measures, nor are we proposing a conflict with the Government of Spain at every moment, nor are we proposing a general confinement since October or November because it is the plan to see if we are right at any time. And that's why we didn't hit anyone. It's time to take the necessary measures, not limit those that should continue to be taken and not fall into a ballad debate about the curfew, because you know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u17	...that when you close your contacts, when you can't be around people, when there can't be collective displacements, the debate of the curfew is more an excuse than the PP to confront the Government of Spain. They rule and protect people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u18	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u19	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. As always when we talk about this pandemic, I want to express on behalf of the People's Group as much as possible about the families of all the deceased, maximum solidarity and support for all those who are sick today, their families and nearers, as well as encouraging the whole society, because I'm sure that, by following the recommendations and following the rules, we will all minimize the effects of a virus that science is gradually coming to know and that, thanks to vaccines, we are about to defeat -- which doesn't mean that there is still not much left until that defeat is definitive --. And, of course, I also want to encourage those who are participating in decision-making processes with the essential goal of saving our lives, literally saving them, but also saving our ways of life in all their dimensions -- family, friendship or leisure -- because social relationships are by definition relationships of exchange of all kinds, of conversations, of economic exchange relationships or of cultural exchange relationships. And that's exactly what attacks the virus. Well, I think we can customize in the president the entire chain of command that integrate all the councils -- essentially health, education, social services and employment -- and the whole chain of command down that you're doing, without any doubt, everything you can to minimize the effects of a pandemic that, as your own name indicates, affects everyone and has catastrophic effects -- and thank God, for it has greatly improved society, less than in the past, because we have more knowledge and also, socially and politically, we're being able to give you better answers than they were given in the past, and because fortunately public services are much better and work much better --. Today, of course, what is involved is a political debate, to assess whether Galicia's political power decides well, effectively, efficiently, proportionately, and also fairly. And whether you decide well or not is based on how you decide. The classics -- they will remember many of you -- they had a clear distinction between what was authority and power. The authors are the socially recognized power, which is not binding, which is based on knowledge, reputation, experience. And the post office is the exercise of established power, which belongs to public magistrates, and which in Galicia represents democratic government. Well, if we have to value the exercise of power, and considering that the essential, the fundamental -- and already said by the Romans -- was that the magistrate settled in justice according to what the jurisconsults said, that they had the authors, because here it's quite easy to come to a conclusion. The established power -- the Union -- is essentially following the knowledge, the authors, the specialized knowledge, the experience of those who know best in our society about pandemics and how to minimize their effects. Because it's true that there are many experts, there are many experts who have spiritual expertise, or homeopathic expertise, and there's a choice to know who the experts are. The experts must be in their field, they have to have facts-based knowledge -- and therefore the facts test the falsibility of the actions -- and thirdly, we have to agree with scientific truths, which are those that the scientific community recognizes as itself and mutual and that are shared by a set of people. All of this, of course, is contradictory to recklessness, to confusing facts based on ideology. Modesty is necessary and not unwise when it is announced that there will be viruses that will have no impact and at ten days recognize that they can be predominant. It is certainly a collective effort and of course it is not easy to achieve that kind of authority that will give you proposals. Well, here it is clear that the Board -- as the president and what the whole of Galician society is aware of -- is making decisions based on a clinical committee of experts. I want to remember that the first meeting of this committee was in March 2020 -- that is, just when it began to have an effect on the pandemic on our land -- and that its current composition, of 35 -- not debated, known, public -- is from April 2020. This committee has systematic meetings, it's plural, experts are recognized and, in addition to -- which is often forgotten to us -- it has specialized information that precisely those who are not experts are unable to interpret as effectively as those who are. It is also a transparent committee. There was a debate, as you know, with regard to technicians advising the Ministry at the time. First he refused, Transparency condemned and finally recognized that the Ministry's experts were Mr. Simon's team. All right, all right. But he's better than Galicia. And besides -- which is the most important -- this committee, which weighs health circumstances and weighs social impacts, not only economics but also health and social -- all this because the pandemic has side effects in the field of health, mental health, quality of life and also effects, like no!, about economic relationships -- is having magnificent results in the context where we are, which is a pandemic. But what no one can deny is that Galicia, in the context of the Spanish pandemic, has never been above average in results. The data that the president gave today, that's how they put it into evidence. Transparency is total. I, Mrs. Pontón, am surprised you keep asking for the vaccination plan. The vaccination plan is hung on Sergas's website, the vaccination plan was presented in this House by the Health Director General on the 15th of the present month. I have a copy on my seat. If you like, I give it to you not to download it; but it is hung on to the web page. It should be noted that if you read the press, you can see that the College of Physicians and Nursing support the vaccination plan. [[Applause]] Well, of course, the first stage is where we are, Mrs. Ana Pontón! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you don't see that, among other things, I -- the president too -- I want to be careful about this! [[Strong murmurers.]] Because there's a process of producing vaccines and therefore distribution by countries. By the way, thanks to the European Union is very fair, eh!, and without going into auctions from which country pays more for the vaccine to vaccinate before. So of course we're in the first phase of vaccination. Which one were we gonna be in? I wish we could be the last one. That would be great news. But, in addition, Mr. Knight comes and tells us we're getting a little. I just said what I just said about the vaccines. It is not the fault of the Government of Spain that there are few, because distribution is European. However, the Government of Spain has something to do with its distribution. You've done that if you take the press any day -- the last one, today's -- what says is that Galicia is among the six autonomous communities that put more than 100 percent of the doses of Pfizer's vaccine. However, it is well below the average in Spain of people who are already with a dose of vaccine received. What does that mean? Well, it means, if we put all of them and we're under the average, we get less than the average, less than the average per population. Because the reality is, if the priority collective is people over 80, as the president proposed, vaccines should be distributed according to the population over 80 and not according to the general population. [[Applause]] So if we have to make some criticism because in Galicia it is more or less vaccinating, it is not the efficiency of the Joint Vaccinating, but it is the lack of vaccines, which is not the responsibility of the Government in total, but rather in its distribution among the different autonomous communities. Mr. Knight says it's the fault of wanting to save Christmas. Yesterday we said in the debate that saving Christmas were instructions given from the Ministry when we met the Interterritorial Health Council. And Galicia has been above Spain's recommendations in the Christmas restrictions. So when there are general restrictions that place the Ministry and Galicia shorten them, it restricts them even more, because it's hard to say that here has acted irresponsiblely. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, nightlife, bars and restaurants have been closed since August 14 by a Central Government decree. I've seen zero economic aids in that decree where the Central Government closes nighttime leisure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Mr President, the action is correct. I think it's the way to act and I ask you to persevere. The opposition has not spoken about any of the six proposals you have made. Of course, we support him. It has clear support for the majority to request flexibility in curfew, to request general standards, to request improvements in teleworking, to request the generalization of FFP2, to request a vaccination schedule already in the following phases. And, of course, look at the funds, because it's one of the most important issues. The opposition also confuses "improvise" with "adjust". Improvising is to do the tuntun; adjusting is to adjust the measurements to the needs of the moment, and this is what the Government is doing. But it would be interesting if they had the same approach. In the elections we were given an impression that they didn't have much technical advice, that they didn't have an expert committee. They said they had to be in the fall and not in July. In July the situation was good and in autumn we had the second wave. Mrs. Pontón has already asked for the closure from the second wave -- and she cites experts --. What he does is just what he doesn't have to do: he has an opinion that we have to close and look into what the expert says at a given time that we have to close so that he has the support of the experts -- which is different from gathering experts who look at all the issues and propose among other possible measures, if necessary, to close it --. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, effective closure may be necessary at some point, but we understand that it's not the solution. But what is most remarkable is that, at this very moment, in the time we are at, Mrs. Pontón proposes the fifteen-day confinement and Mr. Caballero says that he is announcing the need for total confinement continuously is something harmful and inconsistent -- which is what the BNG does --. Well, fortunately we don't have a bipartite. Sánchez says we're already good with the tools. I think the president's requests are reasonable. The central government's action is, of course, a matter of concern to the electoral campaign. I want to give a clue: when elections were convened in Galicia and the local socialist mayors called for total closure, there were throughout Galicia, throughout Galicia!, 250 people infected with the virus -- most of them in the health area of Lugo --. Do you want to know how many diagnosed in the last 15 days in Catalonia? There's 40,000. Well, I don't think there's much more to say after this, because the coherence of the councils that are given according to an election date because they certainly suspect the ability to make reasonable decisions from the central government. It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u21	There's a report from the University of Santiago that says that chryspation aggravates the pandemic. I think we should also take that into account and contribute to the fact that the pandemic is not getting worse. Mrs Pontón made four proposals. You have to leave it to the experts. The budgets of the Union that we discussed and approved yesterday have a fund of EUR 503 million exclusively to fight against the coward. And the consultant of Fairy knows perfectly well that, if it is necessary to increase that amount, you can make the corresponding credit transfers. Ask for a new residence model. The Board is working on it and in the Reactivation Committee we are willing to make a pact. And, of course, we are prepared to let Spain and its Government, on this occasion of the extraordinary allocation of European funds, not claim Galicia. So, Mrs. Pontón, I'm telling you -- which surely, with more authority and more power than me, the president will ratify -- that for us he won't be left with the hand to get Galicia out of this pandemic as best as possible. Now, I would also be grateful that you, who is in the opposition, had also said something about the proposals that the president announced that he will defend in Madrid next Friday before the President of the Government, and that we -- I repeat -- support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u22	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica by the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Pontón, Mr. Caballero, I have been listening with all my attention to your reflections, your criticisms and your proposals in connection with this unprecedented situation in the world, the European Union, Spain and, consequently, Galicia. I'm surprised -- I don't hide it from you -- some of the ratings you make, and especially the contradictions in which -- in my opinion -- you fall into your interventions. Mrs. Pontón, I reiterate that we have the same legal instruments that we had before we started the pandemic. The only autonomous community that I proposed to the Central Government a proposal to amend the Organic Law on Public Health to regulate the pandemic was this autonomous community. Not only did we propose it, but we did not forward the bill to the Welsh House while we did not serve the Central Government with loyalty. At a conference of presidents, I made a commitment to forward a text to the Government and we did it. We've been working on that text for several weeks, with various lawyers chaired by the general legal adviser of the Government. I didn't even have an answer. And in the face of that lack of response, I brought a law to the German Parliament. And it's amazing, Mrs. Pontón, but you voted against -- you didn't even want to discuss the law, you put an amendment to the whole --. And does it say that the responsibility of not having a legal instrument for the pandemic is the Government, the only government in Spain that proposes a reform of the organic public health law to assess at the Congress of Deputies, the only government of all autonomics who brought a text to the House? And BNG's answer was not even to discuss it. And do you say the responsibility for not having legal instruments belongs to the Council of Galicia? It's amazing, Mrs. Pontón, that you say you want to help and every time we bring a proposal, make a whole amendment. Not even if we have to debate, we can't even sit down and debate. And then he gets here and at the last minute of a discount he makes a series of very surprising proposals, like to try to say that the BNG proposes. But of course, when BNG is available, it's still the "no", the "no" to the tools, the "no" to the proposals of the clinical committee, the "no" to the proposals in the field of hospital management, the "no" to exactly what the Government of Galicia proposes. Mrs. Pontón, you're also talking about getting worse. Is there anyone who hasn't gotten any worse? Is there any autonomous community that didn't get any worse? Didn't Spain get worse? Isn't Spain about to go over, probably today, the incidence of 900 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days? When Madrid arrived at 500, it was necessary to intervene in Madrid. And now that we're in 900 not only nothing has to be done but there's not even an extension of the curfew and they have to continue the elections of Catalonia. And you think that's an argument from the far right. It is surprising that you consider the infected with a specific ideology! [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, a little respect for the truth! In the first wave Galicia was the fourth autonomous community with a lower mortality rate per 100,000 inhabitants, despite being one of the oldest. In the second wave -- in the peak, in November -- we were the fifth autonomous community with a lower mortality rate. And now, in this wave -- in the third -- we are the third autonomous community with a lower mortality rate, just behind the Canary Islands and Balearic Islands -- that is, the first of the entire peninsula. But, Mrs. Pontón, don't you know that there are seven autonomous communities in Spain that exceed a 1,000 incidence? Castela-A Mancha, 1,254; Castela-León, 1,377; Valencia, 1,423; Extremadura, 1,313; A Rioxa, 1,300. Seven fifteen communities are over 1,000, Spain is about to reach 900, and it turns out, gentlemen, that Galicia has done it wrong! I'm convinced that the vast majority of autonomous communities would sign for having the death rate that Galicia has, the number of people entering the ICU and the number of people on the hospital facility. Which, Your Honor, should only lead us to continue working, but with a little rigour and putting value on what the health personnel do. [[Applause]] You congratulate the health staff, and then you say that the medical staff of the clinical committee are irresponsible for taking the measures we have been taking all these months, from March to January -- including the last meeting, last Tuesday --. Look, Your Honor, there are people who don't deserve this deprotection and disqualification. Now you say Galicia is increasing the number of infected. Indeed, Your Honor, the number of immunizations in Galicia per infection is 4,5 % and in Spain is 9,9 %. That's natural immunization, immunization without vaccine. Therefore, communities that have a lower incidence of coronovirus have a greater chance of increasing the number of infections. When Madrid has 20 percent immunized because the disease has passed, or the castles, or elsewhere, they have no doubt less possibilities. And if you were to study the reports -- for example, that of the Carlos III Institute, where the immunity map of the autonomous communities is realized -- you would see that in Galicia there are more possibilities to increase. Obviously, if we had 1,400 infected by 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days, we would have fewer possibilities; if we have half, we have more. But -- I repeat again -- that's the data. We have followed the mortality rate of Spain's lowest since it began until now, and throughout all waves -- in the first, the second, and the third -- each time we drop a position at the mortality rate. But maybe that doesn't matter to you. Of course, I care about all the data, especially the bad ones. But I think, on behalf of the Galician Health Service and on behalf of the clinical committee -- and also on behalf of the Government -- we have the right to do an X-ray of the situation so that we can deal with the treatment and not come here simply to pose magic recipes. Look, Your Honor, the contingency plan was not improvised, the contingency plan was approved by the Government of the United States before the Central Government. The action protocols at each stage have been approved by the clinical committee for months now, and we've done them. And when the rate is over 250, we act; and when the rate is over 500, we act; and when the rate is down to 100, we act -- which is what we did in Santiago, Ourense and Coruña when we came down from that percentage --. And that's exactly why I'm surprised you have no rule but the so-called confinement. Mrs. Pontón, I understand that from the comfort of a chair it is very easy to dictate confinement. It was his only proposal in the second wave and it is still his only proposal in the third wave. You don't need the opinion of health experts and you don't need the opinion of economic experts. And you don't need any management experience, health or economic, to prescribe a global and generalized confinement for all of Galicia. You're very comfortable on the pandemic commentator's role. But besides commenting on the pandemic, you have to bring concrete and motivated things based on epidemiological rules and also on solvent criteria. Look, let me quote Professor Santiago Lago, a member of the expert group, in an article from the Vigo Lighthouse published in November. Extract: "Something to avoid at all costs is confinement, because of its catastrophic economic effects, but also because of its impact on our boys' education and the physical and mental health of all of us. A confinement in November and December like the one in the first past would lead us to a fall of the Greek GDP close to 20% of the whole year." Look, Your Honor, this is the opinion of an expert who doesn't just give economic reasons -- that also --. But, Mrs. Pontón, besides all this you come here to propose a pact for confinement. Turns out I don't have skills to expand the curfew and you're trying to confuse the Greeks by trying to tell them that I have skills for confinement, which is the maximum, when I can't the least, which is to expand the curfew because their government partners in Madrid and Galicia prevent me from expanding the curfew. That's deliberately confusing, and I don't think I deserve it either myself or this House, and much less Galicia. Let the BNG come to put forward a proposal that knows perfectly that it is illegal, indeed, very expensive, as one member of his group says. [[Applause]] Very face! Look, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that from the comfort of a chair you can say what you consider. But I don't ask you to respect the president of the board or respect the government. I ask you a little respect for the thirty-five members of the clinical committee. It's just that, besides, you know perfectly -- I insist -- that we can't completely confine the population, we can't even expand the curfew. You will see, in Galicia, as long as you are chairman, between the proposals of the clinical committee of thirty-five professionals and Mrs Pontón's proposal I will follow the proposals of the clinical committee of thirty-five professionals. [[Applause]] I'm surprised, too, Your Honor, that you come to say here -- just like Mr. Knight -- that I criminalize citizenship. I insist, in your role as a commenter you can say in the morning that the Board criminalizes citizenship and economic sectors and in the afternoon to ask for home confinement for no one to leave. What are we left with? If we all act correctly, we wouldn't need confinement. And now you propose confinement because you think no one acts with correction! Who criminalizes, Mrs. Pontón? The elimination of all rights and freedoms to leave home isn't it criminalizing citizenship? And yet is it criminalizing citizenship to demand compliance with the rules and proposals? Isn't it criminalizing the municipalities with a low incidence, Your Honor? Is confinement not criminalizing sectors where there are no contagions? Is it not to criminalize the vast majority of the Greeks who scrupulously comply with most and even with all of the recommendations and decisions? Our duty -- with the information we have -- is to take proportionate action. And that's how we're gonna keep doing it. The vast majority of citizens deserve our recognition because, of course, the vast majority is making a huge effort. But the vast majority is not the whole, and that's why we ask the minority not to comply so that all those who do feel legitimate to continue to do so. That's not criminalizing anyone, Your Honor. [[Applause]] That's talking with a minimum of responsibility. Because I think from this rostrum, at an unprecedented moment in our history, we should all speak with the greatest possible responsibility. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Caballero and Mrs. Pontón, you're telling me that the help isn't in the Doug. No, ladies and gentlemen, they're in people's pocket. Yes, ladies. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know why I'm laughing. Would you simply distribute 370 million euros and reach 150,000 beneficiaries? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Would you just make it available to self-employed, micro-enterprises and host up to 86 million euros? Are 19,300 hostage professionals aware of 37 million euros in their current accounts? They say they don't see him in the DOG. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, you don't study the DOG. Look, we put in 370 million euros. There were 157,000 beneficiaries in total. The first rescue plan was 86 million euros. We paid 19,300 hostess aid amounting to 37 million euros. We know the number of settlements per county and we're making it public. We support employment and dynamisation with economic support to self-employed people and pemes for an amount, only in liquidity -- not in direct aid but in liquidity -- of 209 million euros. We made a cultural reactivation plan for 27 million euros. We made a tourism shock plan for 37 million euros -- and it was already perceived by 19,700 people --. We made a nightly leisure plan -- the first one we agreed on and the second one we're building --. And we support the primary sector, more than seven thousand people -- seven thousand people from longliners, ornamental plants, beef... Ladies and gentlemen, we have loaned the harvest for 6 million euros -- and I think I remember that we are the only, or the only autonomous communities, that we implement it. And it comes here to say we don't help anyone and we don't notice anything about the engagement of the Union! I just transferred the second rescue plan with another 75 million euros to self-government, hosting and micro-enterprises -- 75 million plus 80 million jobs exceed 150 million euros --. Look, Your Honor, exactly we have here, at the disposal of all of you, the ones who have collected, the applications, the payouts... all of them, absolutely all of them! I don't think it's fair to tell people that in the month of Christmas you worked tomorrow and late to pay for these benefits -- and to start paying them before the deadline for application ended -- that we don't have any help for any sector. Look, I honestly don't think that's fair. And so when we talk about the BNG that they're willing to hold their hand in the hostel -- I hope! --, ask us two more days to reflect on the proposals. The BNG governs three Members. Yes, of course, he governs three deputies. [[Murmurs.]] Without the BNG, the PSOE couldn't rule at any because it lost them all. The BNG governs three Members. [[Murmurs.]] I recognize that the Crown Deputy has paid off; the Lugo Deputy, no; and the Pontevedra Deputy, no. It's in your hands, Your Honor. They give you "1 %". But are they really talking about taking 1 % off the health budget, 1 % off the social services budget, 1 % off the education budget? If we remove those games, we're putting more than 1%. But you can really cheat on this too! And then you ask for a fund for the vault and they say we don't hire staff!Is that what you're talking about? More than seven thousand people hire and are working -- not counting bass contracts --! Seven thousand more people every day, in health care, in education and in social services! How can it be said that we are not working on these aspects! [[Applause]] It's very surprising, Mrs. Pontón, that you come here to propose measures that you know perfectly well that your partners are not willing to accept. Yesterday I heard you complained about not being approved or accepting amendments. But if you didn't accept any government proposal, none, zero! It's more, surprisingly, I was seeing how you voted and how the institutions where you didn't amend the budget -- i.e., they agreed -- they didn't even support them. It's surprising, ladies, that they don't even amend and then they don't support it. And then it turns out that it's the government's responsibility, that it has to rule and get the budget off. On residences, Mrs. Pontón, of course we are in favour of establishing the mechanisms of the new model of residences, architectural mechanisms, mechanisms of direct connection to health care, mechanisms of shared clinical history, of the subjects of the health care ratio in residences... but you recognize that mortality in the Greek residences is the second lowest in Spain, recognize it! Because then you're doing an acknowledgement to all the socio-sanitary staff working in the residences. And then we're building, and not destroying, anything that's German. Everything in Galicia is bad and it turns out that, when we compare Galicia to the rest of Spain, we're in a better position; better, of course, than the average of Spain and most autonomous communities. This sale that nationalists make of Galicia is necessary to save it. [[Applause]] If you want Galicia and Galicia so much if it hurts, you'll see the reputation that you have for the Greeks. On the direct management of European funds, please, Your Honor! We've always asked for it, of course. We had a video conference yesterday, with the Social Policy Adviser and the Vice-President of the Commission and the Commissioner responsible for demography, and made it clear that the demographic funds will be distributed to the States. We ask you to be active in the state to try to secure the funds. Of course, we proposed to the Commissioner that he should take into account in that fund regulation the percentage of people over 65, the percentage of population dispersal, the percentage of rural territory, and that they would take into account, for example, the efforts of autonomous communities in the field of population and population. That's what we're interested in, Mrs. Pontón, and that's what we're working on. So, if you want to work, we're at your disposal. What you can't come here is to try to confuse that there is no help, that we are the worst, that we have the worst data, that we have done nothing and that now it turns out that Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Feijóo are responsible for everything that happens in Galicia. I am undoubtedly responsible for health skills. Absolutely! I'm very proud to exercise my powers, but this transcends health skills. I can't decree a state of alarm, I can't pass an organic law to regulate the pandemic, I can't touch the deadlines when people have to retire to their homes. I don't have any competition at the National Police and the Civil Guard, and I come listening to Mr. Caballero who stops running a balcony police and exercises my powers. This is, at least, surprising. Unless during the state of alarm the state's security forces and bodies had made themselves available to autonomous presidents to monitor the rules on pandemics! Unless the municipal police were made available to the autonomic presidents to monitor compliance with the rules of the pandemic! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But exactly, Mr. Knight, what do you think about the police? But as he says, what I just heard! How does it say I just heard if not even the council wanted to process the fines and we had to go to the Advisory Council to dictate a clarification of competences and propose an agreement for them to at least report them and pass them on to us? Surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that in a state of alarm the alarm officer has no security forces and bodies! It's amazing. What would happen, Mr Caballero, if an autonomous president who exercises his powers by delegation renounces his powers? What would happen? In the same way that the President of the Government decided to give up his powers and delegate to an autonomous president, what would happen if an autonomous president did not accept delegated powers? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know what? The difference is that autonomous presidents are part of the state and we are all responsible. [[Applause]] Mr. Knight, with all ease, I don't think you should accept that I am in a pedestal. Look, I'm in front of the clinical committee and I'm not moving from there, a clinical committee that was the first one from March until now. We didn't stop anybody or hide the data. No, Your Honor, there's no trick. There's no trick in Galicia's clinical committee. In the absence, Spain's clinical committee is full of traps, Your Honor. So I'm not moving out of there and I have it very clearly. Look, when I hear some questions from Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Knight on Christmas, I remind you that the Government of Spain's proposal at the Interterritorial Council was full mobility in Spain from 23 to 7... yes, Your Honor! 15 days, from 23 to 6 uninterruptedly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we authorize seven. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I remind you that the Government of Spain's proposal was close to ten. And we insist on even the satiety in correcting the ten allies to put cohabital units of families, nothing more. And we insisted and persisted to the end, until at the end, on the same day that we had to close the rule, the Galician Juridical Counsellor warned us that we had to put into the standard the ten allies because it was a competition from the Government of Spain. But you really don't remember that? Do you really come here to say I don't know how many Christmas things? Look, let's go to the Christmas data. On December 24, the incidence in Galicia was three points below that in Spain, the positivity rate was 5.15 % in Galicia and 8.4 % in Spain. Now the positivity rate in Galicia is 12.2 % -- already falling to the environments of 9 -- and in Spain it's 17.7 %. I mean, where did the positivity rate go further? In the middle of Spain, and less in the rest -- as Galicia is --. The only community that took more restrictive measures than Galicia at Christmas was Valencia and did not slow down the cases. Today Valencia has an incidence of more than 1,340 cases, twice as much as Galicia. So I can't understand these criticisms. But if we valued the mayors before closing! And there were even mayors we proposed to close before 250 charges. And the mayors, responding to the protocol of the clinical committee, said that in no case was the hostel closed -- PSOE and BNG --. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 24th of December in 42 municipalities was no longer allowed to open the hostel. I insist, in the municipalities of Pontevedra, Vigo and Ferrol -- especially those of Pontevedra and Vigo -- we had the hostel until 5 p.m. and then we expanded until 6 p.m., all Christmas days, all, absolutely all! We never went down the guard, gentlemen. And if they didn't meet the limits, we wouldn't authorize them. Why exactly are they criticizing us? Mrs. Pontón, Mr. Caballero, can you tell me what your autonomous community model is in the management of the pandemic? We'd study it very carefully. Which autonomous community did it better? We would compare what Galicia did with what this autonomous community did, and the situation of that community before, during and after, just like ours. That's reasonable. Well, I'm sure you're going to propose some model for me in the replica shift. Because the clinical committee -- and, of course, the government -- has an obligation to study it. Mr. Knight, with all due respect, come here and talk about the vaccination plan and tell us the vaccines that correspond to us... depending on what? What are our vaccines? What are the parameters? Can you say that here in the rostrum? Now we were vaccinating the elders in the residences. Why do we have 5% when we are, along with Asturias, Castile and León and Cantabria, the oldest communities in Spain? We don't even have the population percentage. If we had 5.7%, they would be vaccinated almost 10,000 more. Now we're going to have 8.8% of the population over 80. That seems to be the criterion. Can you believe that we will be given 8.8% of the total vaccines distributed in Spain? That's our request, it's quite reasonable. When children under 30 are vaccinated, Galicia will obviously be affected by the percentage of distributed vaccines, and we will understand that. But we're vaccinating the most vulnerable population and we have less percentage than we belong to, being one of the communities with the most vulnerable population. I repeat that... yes, Mr. Knight, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] At least accept reality, don't be confused. Look, I repeat what I said. Until the second quarter of this year 2021 we're not going to have vaccines, because what we have now is a minimum vaccine transfer -- 18,000 a week -- that we can dispense in two hours or, at most, in four hours depending on the number of nurses. And do you think that's having vaccines? During these three weeks that will last the restrictions, we could vaccinate 20.000 Greeks and eventually we're only going to vaccinate 20,000 per week, that is 60,000. Do you think this is having vaccines? Where is the modern vaccine?, where is the AstraZeneca vaccine?, where is the Janssen vaccine? But do you really think you can suck in here that we have vaccines?Oh, my God! In April? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Probably, in the second quarter of the year, in the second quarter of the next year. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to come here to say that thanks to the Socialist Party we are being vaccinated is something so surprising that I don't think it is worth continuing to influence these kinds of issues. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's more than surprising. Now it turns out we've come here to propose a lot of things. About the incidence of vaccinations in health care, have there been any imperfections in the staff list? Yes. Are these exceptional cases? Of course! PP mayors have not yet been vaccinated. Mayors of the PSOE, yes. And if someone vaccinates, of course, he'll have to have consequences on it. But, man, come here and say we're wrong about 22 non-sanitary personnel in the Pontevedra area is a very surprising thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u24	Aerosois, gentlemen, Aerosois! And respect!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u25	And I also complain -- and I repeat it -- that those who, by virtue of the personal list of a healthcare area where they can work 5,000 people, find themselves in a situation where the vaccine does not correspond to them, give them up, notify them to the staff area, in the same way that they would notify them of any questions that would harm them. I think that's how we have to propose this. About tracking tests it turns out we're from autonomous communities with higher detection percentages, and you come here saying no. Turns out they don't take the saliva pool PCR tests into account. Here comes Minister Illa, former Minister Illa -- candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat --, valuing and applauding what the Vigo microbiology lab is doing, which is doing the saliva pool tests and you can't count them. And it turns out we're not tracking, too. Look if we tracked, Your Honor, that during this wave the number of people entering the ICU is 0.8% and in the other wave was going up by 3% -- that is, more than twice, almost triple --! And look if we tracked that now the number of people entering hospitals is 5% and in the first wave it was 17.7%! Of course we track, of course we quarantine, of course things are working better! But, look, Mr. Knight, there are statements that I can only understand from ignorance or from the will to deceive citizenship. Or January 22 in La Voz de Galicia: "Headman asks to strengthen health personnel to apply vaccines more quickly." That's what you think. Are you really the only person who doesn't know that the health personnel can manage all the doses that come to us for the week for one morning?, do you really not know the problem of the supply of vaccines at European and Spanish level and, consequently, at the Greek level?, do you really believe what it says or simply want to take our hair? There are manifestations of them that deserve to be framed; for example, "I don't understand why the Galician Health Service leaves a percentage of vaccines undispensed." When it turns out that two doses must be made within a period of twenty-one and twenty-seven days, does it seem to you that we should not have the second vaccine to completely dispensate and immunize citizens? Do you continue to suggest that we have to dispense 100 percent of vaccines without any previous storage? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Truly, the level of irresponsibility exceeds fiction! But it's not exactly the first time you've tried to confuse everyone. Actually, you said it or spokesperson. Look, I still remember the meetings and discussions about the suspension of the elections in March because of the responsibility and appearance I had to make in this Parliament hearing that I was convening elections for the month of July in the middle of a pandemic wave. And now, Your Honor, I suppose you won't be invited to the campaign of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, because if you invite him to the campaign of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, a little paper will go there to explain that you have to vote in Catalonia with an incidence rate like that you have and that you couldn't vote in Galicia with half the incidence rate we had! What a paperboard, Your Honor! [[Applause]] And honorably, Mr. Knight, I am the representative of the State in Galicia, and therefore I have the right to express myself and not to confront but to say what I think. We could get here! Who confronts?, does a Galician board propose to amend the Organic Law on Public Health -- and to send a text to the Central Government -- or the Central Government, who has done nothing and has no public health legislation to manage the pandemic? Who confronts? Is it against Junta, which helps hostage, or confronts the central government, that does not put a euro for restrictions on opening and closing the hostel? Who confronts you, gentlemen? Do you confront Junta when she asks for tools and make decisions or the government and its president when they spend a few weeks dedicated to the Catalan campaign? Who confronts? It's just that you can't say this. Do you really believe that I can't express myself freely, loyally and with the truth that I consider, which I consider to be so, to transfer it to the Government, to my government in Spain? Who confronts? Is it against Junta when she asks for funds to be shared with criteria or is she challenged when, according to each fund or ministry, the funds are shared with the corresponding criterion of parliamentary partners? I can't assure you that in Galicia we've always been focused on fighting the pandemic. In the first minute! Not always, but from the very first moment! And we're not leaving him. And for that, Your Honor, I have the right to explain our point of view to the Greeks. For that, the Greeks chose us, to explain each one's point of view. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I can't understand some of your assertions, but I think I'm getting to the point: that you want to work because things go well. Let's see if that's the case. We'd be at your disposal. Look, I repeat that we are at a critical moment, no doubt, and that we need an additional effort from all of us. And I repeat. We are aware that the population is sick of this situation and that we should move to the population that these efforts are necessary. And this is precisely why we should be responsible and act firmly: when the data facilitates progressive openings, do so; when the data prevents it, do not do so; when the experts recommend it, follow it; and when they recommend otherwise, accept it. Because so from the autonomous communities we are being held responsible. And we therefore ask the Government of Spain to give us tools. Since we have responsibility and we are not going to give up the delegation of powers, which gives us tools. It seems reasonable. And that's why I made six requests to the Government of Spain -- of which I still don't know exactly what group positioning is -- : - Make the curfew more flexible. Are you in favor or against? Are you in favour of allowing autonomic presidents to expand the curfew or against? -- that the commitment is to establish a suitable regulatory framework for managing the pandemic, not with the designations of "state of alarm", "touch of fall", etc., which are constitutional denominations that are absolutely exceptional and not intended for a health pandemic that will last more than a year, probably a year and a half or at least two years. Are we going to continue with this terminology of curfew and alarm status? -- A national consensus for teleworking, which is fundamental to the production system. -- Clear guidelines and at which times -- I don't always say in any case -- if you have to force the FFP2. For example, should public transport be compulsory? In my opinion, yes. But we have to do it at Spain level so that we don't do the ridiculous thing we did at first. And we have to implement economic measures, because an FFP2 costs a lot more than a surgical one and it seems reasonable that we realize exactly what thresholds and contexts it is necessary to carry that mask, as do the professionals in hospitals. -- A defined vaccination schedule. Mrs. Pontón, you ask me here to set a timetable when we don't even know the vaccines coming. We try to make a common calendar for the whole country and we carry our proposals loyally to the Government in each interterritorial commission. And we're asking for the percentage of vaccines that correspond to us according to the Danish population that we have to vaccinate at some point. -- And we also ask that the funds be distributed transparently. Mrs. Pontón adds that Galicia also executes them directly. Do we agree? Mr. Knight, do you agree? Those are the six proposals I will bring to the President of the Government. I try consensually, if possible, in the House; or that at least they give me guidance if you think there are better proposals or you have to turn these. We will continue to be dumped in fighting the pandemic and its effects with a plan of health continence and 2,300 professionals who are working every day in health care -- but those we had --. There are over 2,400 teachers hired. There are over 600 people in hired social policy who work every day to try to reduce the effects of the pandemic. We just approved the budgets and we couldn't even get one of those budgets to be approved. Amendment to the whole!, amendment to the whole! We must be grateful that yesterday the Socialist Party abstained in the Law on the abandonment of lands. Maybe it's a light at the end of the tunnel, I hope! I congratulate you on that. We present the biggest budgets in our history, controlling the public deficit that marks us by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. We approve the biggest public job offer in our history and we want more because we have more vacancies and more people about to retire. And the Central Government doesn't consider it appropriate. We signed the first social agreement in the telework of an autonomous administration. We worked to write Xacobeo 2021 and we managed to expand it until 2022 by the Church's decision. We approved the Galician digital strategy. We're setting up a Galician forest plan. We approved a strategy in the dairy sector. We're working on the improvement of infrastructure. We've just reached an agreement with the Town Hall of Coruña to make one of Spain's major hospitals, the Public Hospital of Coruña. We're working at the Public Hospital in Ferrol and he's looking forward to adjudicating the Public Hospital in Pontevedra. We just expanded the Marine Hospital. We've just expanded the ICUs and emergency services in many hospitals. We've just opened health centers in the middle of the pandemic, and we're still doing it. And, of course, we're going to continue to work to prepare our candidacy with the European Union's Next Generation funds -- with an independent expert committee, with independent people, that we don't ask for the paper to know who this professor or other professor is, or who presides over the association of families, family businesses, etc. --. We are agitating the regulatory calendar: six laws of the previous legislation and six laws of this legislation in the first 100 days. Twelve laws! Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that we're working the top, and we're not going to tire of continuing to work the top. I ask you to criticize what we do wrong to improve it. What I don't think is reasonable is that you criticize what's best done. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u26	Thank you, President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Turn of clarifications. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u27	Mr. Feijó, we're at a critical moment, with a record number of contagions. We've been on average for 15 days with over 1,400 daily infections -- with thousands of people, therefore, infected in our country -- with hundreds who are fighting for their lives in hospitals. In twenty-five days 245 people died in this country. And he comes here and tells us he doesn't understand why we criticize him, he comes to this gallery and he doesn't assume a self-criticism of anything his government has done to make us in that situation. I honestly think that's what no Welsh and Galician can understand. [[Applause]] And besides, in the middle of this situation, your big argument is to come here to manipulate the words of the national spokesperson for the BNG, to put in my mouth things that I didn't say, something that seems intolerable to me. Because, look, politics isn't worth everything and you have to have arguments to defend politically what's going on. But what you come here systematically -- and you do it in the middle of this pandemic -- is to put words in my mouth that I didn't say. Look, the arguments on the far right are that the virus spread by 8M, which was exactly what you came to say here today. Don't manipulate my words. [[Applause]] And, of course, I won't let you put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I've never said that the clinical committee is irresponsible. Are you really not ashamed to manipulate this way in this Parliament, Mr Feijóo? It's just that the Greeks and the Greeks deserve a president who doesn't come to the House to manipulate, to lie, to say we didn't say things we didn't say. [[Applause]] This is a situation sufficiently would be such that, please, stop manipulating and twisting my words. And I want to ask you, do you really want us to tell the 1,649 families that have lost a loved one that we have a good level of mortality? I daren't tell him. You tell him, because I think it's amazing that he's coming to compare our dead with the average. They are people who have lost their lives and who deserve all our respect and that we work to make that figure the least possible in this country. That's the will we've been working with since BNG. So don't manipulate and don't come here and tell us this is an assumption. And, look, I could here today devote the two and a half minutes that I'm left to talk about their contradictions, because at least today I think it would be uplifting for many people to hear the president of the board say, "Yes, I was wrong when I put the goal of saving Christmas, I was wrong when I said it was a state of alarm because it was loaded with consumption at Christmas and it closes on Holy Week." It would be good if you recognized, Mr. Feijóo, who was wrong with that false dichotomy between economics and health. Because you know what we're seeing? That with that dichotomy they don't save lives or save the economy. We're seeing it on this third wave with a demolition effect, which nobody wants. But we have to think about it so we can change things. And so you come here -- and you repeat it -- and you say we have the same tools as at the beginning of the pandemic. It's just that, Mr. Feijóo, this is a whole amendment. The pandemic won't fight with a law that only does it is to fine the Greeks and the Greeks. The pandemic will be combated if we strengthen public health well, if there are enough trackers, if you avoid contamination in residences, if you prepare a good vaccination campaign so that when the vaccine arrives there is no delay, and not with propaganda announcements that, frankly, Mr. Feijóo, no one believes. [[Applause]] Because you can't tell us one day that it takes a month to vaccinate 40,000 people, the next day to say that Galicia can put 200,000 vaccines, to the next 120,000 and today 100,000. It's not serious, Mr. Feijóo! And this is a matter of serious enough to get him to take the yellowish and the yellowish, or to come here with his usual propaganda. And we ask him to stop looking at those who are worse and to look at those who are doing better. Because it always compares to someone who's worse. But why don't you compare to what's better? [[Murmurs.]] Because there are countries that have controlled the pandemic -- like New Zealand, right? --. There are other countries that we have seen as... yes, yes, there are other countries that are not dying at the last moment. [[Murmurs.]] We learned from who did well. We don't say it's easy. What we're saying is that the Government has the responsibility to rule and look at those who are doing it better and not content with being a little worse than the rest. Honestly, I don't think this country deserves it right now. [[Applause]] And, look, it's not easy -- I mean -- it's not easy to ask for confinement. It's very difficult, but it's true that today there are more and more voices in experts -- in our country and outside -- that they're saying this third wave is just stopping with confinement. I could bring you here hundreds of cuts that collect those assertions. And it's funny, Mr. Feijóo, that you come here with a dichotomy. What happens in the state is the responsibility of the central government, and what happens in Galicia is not the responsibility of the Galician Union, it is the clinical committee. I don't know, Mr. Feijóo, if it's the clinical committee that prevents you from placing a confinement on the table. Say it. Because I think that's important information. Above all, because I think we have to think about it, which is where it will lead us not to make effective decisions. [[Murmurs.]] How many lives does it cost to make this decision? Because this is a decision that saves lives, as they recognize, by the way, members of their government. I want to remind you of an interview by the councilman, in which they asked him, "Are we going to go to jail?" And he says, "It's the end of the measures. At the end of the measures is that and we've seen it works, but we're all running away from it." Because it's not easy, it's a difficult proposal. It's hard to think about it, and we've thought about it from rigor and from conviction, that it's harder to see how people in the ICU follow, how people keep getting infected, and how that leads to ruin to thousands of economic and family sectors in our country. That's why we're proposing this measure knowing it's not easy. [[Applause]] What's comfortable, perhaps since the comfort of the official car, is not taking measures and hiding. And what's convenient is coming here to manipulate. Why is it illegal to ask for confinement?Oh, my God! I, Mr. Feijóo, didn't tell him that you could set up a confinement. I asked you to ask the Central Government. Why does he manipulate that too? But can we really never have a serious debate without the word being manipulated?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u29	I think it's a matter that's important enough. And you can't rule from political cowardice, you can't rule from that comfort of the official car that makes you come here simply to manipulate my words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u31	And I'm done -- if I may -- just with a question of the future. Of course, I think, Mr. Feijóo, if he got off the official car, he would understand the difficult situation that many people have in our country. Self-employed and self-employed had to wait until November for the DOG to publish the first aid, when other autonomous communities that had already been assisted were in the second aid order and are now considering the third aid. And there's not enough help. We continue to say that we hold hands, and that we hold hands to bring this country forward. But for that, Mr. Feijóo, you have to be willing to make decisions right now that are difficult but the most effective decisions to contain the virus. And I'm done with a last thought. Look, a confinement would be more effective when the wave was lower, because it would prevent many infections. And if this is done in a quick way, if it were done in its own time, maybe we wouldn't be like this today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u32	Mrs. Pontón, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u33	Haven't done it in the past, you can't stop us from making decisions that can save lives right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Caballero Miguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President-in-Office, your speech today has been worrying. You've shown yourself sober, you haven't admitted any mistakes, you haven't shown your willingness to cooperate. Today the Greeks and the Greeks find a president of the Union who has not responded to their concerns at the moment of gravity living with this third wave. You didn't recognize the error of opposing the alarm state, you didn't recognize your error of saying that there would be no vaccines until April. You don't recognize your central error all in the Christmas saving strategy, which was a strategy that led to a higher level of contagion in this third wave. Because I remind you again that the same decisions you announced two days ago could have taken them over the month of December, marking a stronger health protection line. And just when we tell him that we're not questioning each of the rules and ask him to get off the pedestal to talk about the country, you deny it. But I heard here today a president of the board who made some assurances of great gravity. I'm worried that the president of the Galician board trusts the balcony police and is suspicious of the state security forces, who distrusts the army, who distrusts the Civil Guard and local police, giving in fact that because they are not under their authority they are not faithfully fulfilling all their public responsibilities, as they are doing [[Applause]] I'm also concerned that the President of the Board, in a rhetorical exercise, will come here today to threaten the possibility that an autonomic president will leave without exercising the delegated powers of the alarm state because he is against the alarm state. Can you come here this third wave asking what would happen if you didn't make the decisions you had to make? Can you be playing with the economy and health with that irresponsibility? And I am also concerned, Mr. Feijóo, that today the president of the board came here to say that the normative change in health that the People's Party has been very busy with the House's lawyers, because I didn't know that the House's lawyers were dedicated to working for the PP group, because it's a manipulative and perverse use of what autonomic institutions are in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The Journal of Sessions picks up the president's words, Counsellors. Listen and read the Session Journal later. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, you're making a strategy of escapism. He doesn't want to assume his responsibilities for the problems of the outbreak of the third wave of the cave and his responsibilities for not putting up a protective umbrella for the economy of our country. Because he did the wrong thing. He thought everything was saving Christmas and being able to go on holiday on Holy Week as a tourist destination. And he made a mistake in planning. That's why we told him to get off the pedestal, to admit that there were mistakes and that there must be action. Do not try to escape with a debate about whether to use FFP2 masks. If the clinical committees so recommend, they will have our full support, as always done by the Socialist Party. But you'd rather have doubts where it's not essential not to have to take responsibility for what's in question right now, which is the health and economy of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] You're going to speak to the President of the Government of Spain to work with loyalty; and in Galicia, to have a country agreement to promote a Unity of Welfare, a Union that strengthens social services, a Union that has planned the worst scenarios that may exist for the next few weeks, a Union that also works in a model of present education, but that has also planned with digital methods of any scenario -- when there are no more present classes in universities, but still there are in primary and secondary --. You also work, Mr. Feijóo, to solve problems in residences, to strengthen the health system. In Sergas telemedicine it doesn't work. They know so much about the Galicians and the Greeks that they don't get to date in primary care so that the doctor can take care of them in one or two days. You promote that Union, that we hold his hand. We propose to you, Mr Feijóo, a great deal of country agreement in the face of a third wave of maximum gravity, based on a board of well-being that defends social services and a plan of resistance for the economic sectors concerned and for reactivation, to gain the future. You here today have cheated continuously in terms of numbers, because the whole country knows that throughout 2020 you have abandoned the productive fabric. You gave EUR 22 million to self-employed and microenterprises throughout 2020. And they now try to patch up with the continuation of a second plan that is not yet published in the DOG. It's just an announcement from the vice president, but there's no money in his hand. You have the responsibility, because the Government of Spain has remitted around EUR 1 billion last year in different concepts -- EUR 224 million just for reactivation, and there's a React-EU for this year of more than 400 million --. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They reach the budgets of the Union more than EUR 1,100 million from the Government of Spain. The Government of Spain is the petrol to protect people, but you are the driver of a car that can't drive, the car to protect the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Today his intervention was disappointing. It was the intervention of a president who, at the worst moment of the contagion, at the worst moment of the ICU, with more than 3,000 contagion students, with such difficult times in social services, gave neither an answer nor a proposal, nor even a correction or recognition of the mistakes that we all have in the face of such a complex situation. And we ask him to rectify, assume the need to arrive at large country agreements to protect well-being and to rescue the economy. So far we've had a few weeks in which we've so much talked about rescuing the hostel, and we've got to rescue the trade, the world of sport...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u37	...the culture. 40 percent of the trade is going to be hard because it's going to be closed over the next few weeks and there's not a single help that's been put after yesterday in the DOG if you put the chain to Galicia's shops. They pass all the necessary restrictions but they back up and defend the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u38	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u39	It'll be very difficult months for everyone. And beyond the requests for correction and the mistakes you made, and beyond the advertisements and propaganda you make, you make all the decisions because this crisis that we have ahead of us still in this semester can be very painful. And we don't want to meet here within a month when we see a U.S. government overrun...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u41	...because what we're concerned about is the Greeks and the Greeks. We have reached agreements to defend our people at the most complex moment, Mr. President. Thank you very much and nothing more, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u42	Mr Puy Fraga has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're in a pandemic. The pandemic has a lot of difficulty. And the first thing you need is that we're going through what we're going through because there's a dangerous virus that's circulating between us and that's going around until science can find a definitive method that cancels it -- initially the vaccine, and so we trust it to be --. Obviously, in the pandemic -- which affects everyone, as its own name indicates -- social complicities must be sought so that its effects are not very strong. Of course, everyone who knows something about compliance with standards knows that the ideal is the internalization of the importance of compliance with standards by citizens. And fortunately, in the case of the pandemic it is. The vast majority of the population has perfectly assumed the rules and recommendations. And when that's not the case, we have to put on normative systems with explicit sanctions. So the importance of there being a general norm to treat pandemics, like the one we've been asking for and that the Spanish Government itself said it would do without any progress since last summer, when it announced these reforms -- here in Galicia we're ready to do it --. And, of course, all those rules that have to be internalized, and, if so, to be reflected in normative texts must be behind the scientific knowledge that we have. The criteria used by Junta -- taking full responsibility for decisions, of course, -- are the criteria that the best experts we have in the country advise to combat the pandemic -- especially good level because fortunately science today is expanding with a speed that it did not do in times prior to the current technological revolutions -- in the same way that in the economic field we respond to the recommendations of economic experts. And all that -- I insist -- is done by facing the importance of decisions. The president was criticized, who came to this Parliament at the highest peak of the two waves he was responsible for -- in November and today -- because he's a escapist. And he is giving explanations every day, thus appearing before the public and the media; and, of course, in Parliament. And yet if he keeps calling it a runner. I think today the debate and the presence of the president was very useful, although it is only to make it clear, first, that there is a government that is acting correctly and with reasonable criteria; and that there is an opposition -- which yesterday spoke here, in another debate, of empathy -- that certainly does not practice empathy with those who have the responsibility to make difficult decisions. But it also provides completely contradictory solutions. Mr. Knight and Mrs. Pontón propose totally contrary things. One, the constant confinement; and the other, for one doesn't know very well, because what he says is that we must do what the Government of Spain commands. And the Government of Spain does what it does is to delegate to the autonomous community. The President of the Government says that the autonomous communities are doing very well and that, in what is being done, they are going to overcome the third wave. President, I think your appearance has been especially useful for clarifying data, for requesting support for the improvement of management instruments, for which most support is given to you and for what the opposition just... So you're the one who boasts of the parliamentary debate and they -- who have the opportunity to pronounce themselves on proposals to elevate the Government of Madrid or not to speak -- because they degrade what the parliamentary debate should be. And he offered consensus that was not met either. Mrs. Pontón, when you say the situation is very serious, we share it. But in the same way that you criticize the other attitudes, you should also show some satisfaction at the fact that in Galicia things are less bad than in Spain as a whole, as an example of similar instruments that we all have. We have the same legal instruments, we have the same levels of competence. And the fact that in Galicia things are better speaks well of Galicia. You, who trust Galicia, speak well of the people, of our people, who behave better than elsewhere, and that's why there's less transmission. He speaks well of our doctors, our health system, because if the mortality rate is lower in Galicia than in the rest of Spain, that means that those who contract the disease are very well attended in hospitals. He speaks well, of course, of the authorities that govern the system. And if the economy does not fall so much, it also speaks well of the decisions taken in the economic sphere and the responsibility of all citizens. Unfortunately, you don't want to go there and insist on confinement, which is the easy solution. And besides, there's no need for a clinical committee or anything, we're all locked up in the house and when the virus isn't back out. And how long can that last? Well, you don't know why the virus's still there. The incidence may be greater or smaller, the restrictions may be greater or smaller, but the virus will continue there. If there's no infection and we're all out on the street and the virus is contagious to us, we're starting again. So what matters is gradualness depending on the opinion of experts, and just to close because nothing needs to be done. No one here has ever talked about the dichotomy of economics and health, or life. Because dichotomy is life or death, but life with all its dimensions: the social dimension, the family dimension, the health dimension... and there is also the economic dimension because life is that, and there are even interrelationships between the economic spheres that cause health problems, etc., which is elementary. Mr. Knight, yesterday I told you that sometimes you don't seem to listen. And either he didn't listen to the subject of the lawyers or he doesn't know that there are more lawyers in Parliament, because, of course, when the president talks about the lawyers who advise the Government, he's talking about the Juridical Counsel of the Board -- which, of course, has excellent professionals --. He says the Government of Spain is gas. Well, I, of you, would say something else, after your government imposed the taxes it places on fuel consumption. But in any case, you know perfectly well that the Government of Spain is not gasoline, which is the European funds, which is European solidarity. The problem with the Government of Spain is how to share these funds among the autonomous communities. And here we're analyzing that, every time there's a distribution criterion, more and more of the pacts in the autonomic financing system, and that it increasingly harms Galicia. And I believe that, once there are European funds and that they have to be shared among the autonomous communities, the role of an autonomic deputy, irrespective of his political party, is to defend that Galicia does not give him any more but does not give him less than he does. [[Applause]] I want to conclude, at one point, by talking about the future. Today's debate does not invite much optimism, but we already have a number of opportunities in this House to reach agreements. We have a law of economic reactivation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u45	...we have a Health Act and we have to implement and develop the dictates of the Reactivation Commission. We continue with the tendered hand because, with such a broad social consensus, it is a pity that opposition groups do not try to make a political consensus except that they turn only a hundred percent on their proposals. And at least -- for taking out something positive from this debate -- I agree with the other spokesmen that it is very important that we all continue to care for ourselves because we take better care of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u46	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close this appearance by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Journal of Sessions takes note of what is put to it, and I believe that this is the safeguard of the denominations, reflections and statements of each spokesperson. And that's why if there's something demagogic, it's to come here to use the number of dead people in Galicia and deny that we can't compare ourselves to the mortality rate with the rest of Spain. This is deeply demagogic: to use the pain of families, the number of compatriots who died by the coronavirus and say that this is the responsibility of a government, and that in addition that government has no capacity to contextualize the pandemic and to be able to bring the collation data of the mortality rate that occurs in Spain, in autonomous communities or in the rest of Europe. That's demagogy, Mrs. Pontón, that's extreme demagogy. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we're going on with the clinical committee. Of course, decisions are made by the Galician Council, which signs the restrictions decrees, is the President of the Government of the Galician Union, and which signs the orders of recommendations and contents, is the Health Counsellor. We are both political leaders and those responsible for citizenship. But do you think it wrong to follow the criteria previously heard by the clinical committee? You call us irresponsible. And to the clinical committee you don't call it irresponsible -- please me --. So if we follow the criteria of the clinical committee and the clinical committee is a competent and responsible committee, you should agree to disqualify for irresponsibility the Government that follows the criteria of the clinical committee. [[Applause]] But I see that you don't care what we explain on Christmas, which you don't care what you say there were thousands of people who were confined at Christmas, during all Christmas parties, who you don't care what we believe together with Valencia we were one of the most restrictive autonomous communities, who gives you just as much as Valencia has the double incidence that Galicia has despite those restrictions. You don't care, because the important thing is that Mr Feijóo is a sovereign and he doesn't have the humility needed to be president of the Autonomous Community. You are, you are a responsible, humble leader, who comes here to go against all the countries of the European Union, who comes here to go against the entire clinical committee, who comes here to teach lessons, from the carpet of his chair, of what must be done. That's right, what we have to do is confining and not criminalizing citizenship. The best way not to criminalize citizenship is not to let her out of the house. But, Mrs Pontón, is this really the maximum level BNG reaches in the debate of a pandemic? Do we really criminalize citizenship by remembering that there is a percentage of citizens who don't meet the rules and you don't criminalize it when what you propose is that no one leave the house? Is this really reasonable and that you have a country position -- how do you like to talk to BNG --? [[Applause]] And when we think about what the model is, when I ask what model we are inspired to be, what model to follow, the gentlemen of the BNG, the spokesperson of the BNG, we propose an island on the continent of Oceania: New Zealand. The BNG model is neither a European model nor a European region, no. The model of BNG is to change continent, go to an island called New Zealand and we learn what they do in New Zealand. Are you really taking our hair this solemn way, Mrs. Pontón? The BNG model is New Zealand. [[Applause]] Yeah, all right, ladies. We are not surrounded by Portugal, we have no border with Castela and León, we are not in the European Union, we cannot come to Galicia according to European regulations, enter airports or railways. No, Your Honor, you think Galicia is an island and that's why you think the model is New Zealand. That's the problem of nationalists in Galicia. Look, Mrs. Pontón, a little respect! I don't ask much anymore, but, man, a little respect!, a little respect for those who have been working from the first day until today. Look, stop preaching and give some wheat. He says to the public and constantly that what Feijóo has to do is ask for the confinement of the people of Greece and stop criminalizing the population -- I don't know how you don't even check the text of the same sentence -- and he talks about contradictions. But is there a more solemn contradiction than this, Your Honor? Look, we put forward six proposals to the Central Government. I brought them to Parliament. I still have no answer from anyone. Then there is the model of the Socialist Party, which, in fact, as Professor Puy said, is absolutely different from that of its government partner, because not only does it not have to be confined, but it does not have to expand the curfew. And you're ruling and making decisions every day, and they're still so belligerent. Who do I have to deal with, with BNG or with PSOE? With both of them, it's impossible. But, however, you rule outside the House everywhere and the blame is always on the board. But do you really think the Greeks don't realize that they don't realize this? If they arrive at a deputation, the answer is no. Another deputation, yes, but there's one that controls Flulanite that doesn't. And the problem is BNG's got his hand on it. Whose hand, Mrs. Pontón? He's in his hand to approve the lines of the hostel this afternoon. The model of the Socialist Party is that the Government of Spain is gasoline. What a simile! We're not going into that simile, which is not the happiest, Mr. Knight. You really have much happier sentences. For example, he comes here to read a role that begins like this: "His intervention was worrying." When exactly did you write that? Yesterday? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Soon? Because I was actually sentenced already. But I don't care, because the central government does everything right and the governments of the autonomous communities do everything wrong. That's the summary. When the President of Aragón or the President of Castile-A Mancha ask for a curfew, they are not responsible, these gentlemen are unaware of this. We've got plenty of tools! Look, of course we have tools; for example, to increase intensive care units by 70% or, for example, to buy xiring machines for the sixth dose from the very first moment without the proposal of the Interterritorial Committee, which you didn't find out. He told us in June that we had to buy giraffes but they didn't tell us what the technical characteristics of Pfizer's vaccine were. He came back in August to remember that we have to buy giraffes, but he doesn't tell us what the technical characteristics are either. And in the month of Christmas they find that in Pfizer there's a special turnout to take six doses instead of five. And the Galician Union -- one of the first communities along with two others -- has checked it out and we're taking six doses of all Pfizer ways from the beginning. We don't have the right to explain it either, because otherwise it's self-propaganda. [[Applause]] No, Your Honor, it didn't happen to me, it didn't happen to me. Those who know about this happened. And those who know about this are the Greek doctors and professionals we feel tremendously proud of. You should congratulate them too. Look, when we started taking the sixth dose, the advisor moved me the chance to make it public. And I propose moderation and prudence, it will not be possible for someone to tell us that, with austerity policy, Feijó takes six doses from which he should draw five -- it's not the first time -- until Germany and other countries in the European Union began to confirm that these roads were ready for the sixth dose, until the number of vaccines delivered to autonomous communities was failed every week and that Pfizer recalled that six doses could be taken -- before he didn't say it because many vaccines had to be sold and when he couldn't produce them remember that six vaccines could be taken --. [[Laughter]] Well, look, the Greeks, a pretty smart people, were already taking out six doses from the beginning, and as good as ever. Shut up as always, but acting, yes. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Knight says I'm on the pedestal and I say I don't know how many things. I would never say we've already won the virus, Mr. Knight. That's for you, for your party, for your leader. We've already won the virus! - Say in June, in June! --. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, Your Honor! [[Murmurs.]] And, look, not only do I trust the National Police, the Civil Guard and the army, but I would like that during the pandemic, for the purpose of controlling the measures in the state of alarm, they depended on the autonomous president. Look if I trust you! You rule in many institutions in many territories where neither the Civil Guard nor the National Police nor the army can enter. Not us, Your Honor, we are proud of the National Police, the Civil Guard and the army. That's the big difference between you and us. [[Applause]] Yes, Your Honor, yes! In fact, the lawyers of the Legal Counsel that is also part of the parliamentary anecdotal, but they really don't know that the Juridical Counsel has lawyers is something I wouldn't say invalidating but surprising. And you say again that we pay 22 million points. But it's like 22 million and a point! But is it that 370 million is equal to 22? Are we not together with the Basque Country the autonomous community with more help to the hospitality sector and not even that they come here to recognize? In the month of Christmas, 86 million euros! -- when we started putting restrictions on the month of November --. We started to pay in the month of Christmas, 30 days of restraining and before the deadline for submitting applications was over. And this too is wrong. It was 22 for the self-employed, 37 for the hostel... stop manipulating, stop manipulating!, 22 million for the self-employed, 37 for the hostel, 33 for the micro-enterprises... stop manipulating, Mr. Knight, really! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no way, eh! You're given general intervention data and you don't care. But it's hard! I was in the opposition, but when the president of the board had a data from the General Intervention I didn't come to say it was a lie. But if it's General Intervention, the treasure of the Autonomous Community, who pays! If there are 19,000 lodgers who charged 37 million euros, how can you say 22?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u48	Quiet, please! Silence! That data offers no doubt about it. Come on, you don't have any doubts!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u49	Mr. Knight, we just made a huge effort with an assumption that we didn't approve until yesterday, making payments with the 2020 budget -- most of the payments -- and leaving a part never for individual hospitality, but for micro-enterprises, which we paid in January, this January, and you come to tell me how much we paid on 31st Christmas! Look, you're nothing, the Government of Spain nothing, that's the summary. And now it turns out that the German model has to be achieved by the German Länder, that is, the Spanish autonomous communities. Look, with all due respect, I'm just here trying to transfer them to the groups if they agree with the six proposals I'm going to make to the President of the Government. I haven't had any answers yet, none. I really thought I deserved some answers. Rescue trade. Mr. Knight, is there any line from the Government of Spain to rescue trade? We started to rescue the self-sufficient before the trade hours were reduced, which was in the month of Christmas. And trade hours restrict it in January. The culture. Is there really any proposal from the Central Government for culture? You're talking about economic reactivation. But is economic reactivation really closing The Bridges? Is economic reactivation closing Meirama? Is economic reactivation not to do anything before Gamesa's closure? Is economic reactivation not giving Navantia a job? And that's what you're talking about, a socialist, from this rostrum! It speaks of economic reactivation when the energy industry and the naval industry of the autonomous community are being destroyed from the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, is economic reactivation closing our energy industry? [[Applause]] Is that economic reactivation? Mr. Knight, with all due respect, I really don't think you were brilliant today, as it usually is. You came here simply to say what they say there; at last, what touches. But it's not what you touch. If I thought at the beginning of your speech you would do something similar to what the President of the Government does in Congress!, with thanks to the autonomous communities, which is what he does at the Conference of Presidents. No, here comes criticism of what the Government of Spain puts in value. Here comes to criticise an autonomous community that the minister, the former minister, Illa put in value -- as one of the best-data autonomous communities --. Yes, Mrs. Ponton calls me demagogy for saying so. Do I have the right to say anything here in this House? If I have no right to say anything, why ask me to attend? Why ask me to attend if I can't just say that the mortality rate in Galicia is the lowest in the whole Iberian peninsula? I can't say, gentlemen, that we are far less affected by income and ICU despite the number of infections. Do you know what to do to reduce the number of infections? Don't do tests. That's a technique, Your Honor, which then exploits everything. Yesterday, 18,000 tests!, 16,000, 15,000, 14,000... we are constantly testing whole peoples, entire institutions. We're trying to find every single person who's been infected. And we are, of course, willing to learn. So we don't assume that things can get better! I come here to learn, to tell me really what the model is and that we can inspire ourselves in that model, transport that model, transfer that model to the rest of Galicia. They come here to question education. Look, when the classes were closed on December 22, there were 820 infected, and now there are 3,300. Is it the problem of education or the problem of social conduct that citizens do out of class? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, how can we now come here to talk so easily to close education! The total number of closed classes is 116 -- basically in children and, to a lesser extent, in primary --. Why? Because they're bubbling classes, and if there's a positive, they close the whole class, because the kids obviously can't tell them not to touch a person or not to approach another child. But of the 9,622 cases accumulated in education, do you know how many were out of class? 87 %, 8,400, who were quarantined before going to class because they had the virus in normal social circumstances. Therefore, education remains a safer place than many other social places where students are, and it comes here to question education, to confine teachers, to confine students! It doesn't matter what happens if you lose whole quarters! The confinement is from the BNG, I have to admit that the authorship of the confinement is from the BNG. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, you come here to question education; the BNG, to demand confinement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, it turns out you don't even remember what you're saying. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I repeat the proposals again. My presence before the President of the Government is to bring forward proposals. Each one has his own opinion about the responsibilities of each one, but I will represent Galicia and, therefore, I will represent him to you too, Mr. Knight. I'll bring you proposals. I would trust you to flex your curfew -- that's what I'm going to tell you --. By the way, he just said the lehendakari, too. With lehendakari you rule in Basquedi. I suppose the Socialist Party in Euskadi is in favour of expanding the curfew; the Socialist Party in Galicia is against. You see what the consistency of the message is, of the political positioning. Would you trust the teleworking to be organized? Yes, because there are so many questions, so many questions, so many more than you can think of, and of what thousands of companies are asking themselves. What are the standards for teleworking?, what are the conditions?, what are the parameters?, how do you rate in this case?, what is the percentage of the daily decrease?... Of course you do! Of course, it would give us confidence that we have an adapted legislation! The nation cannot live on a permanent curfew, on a permanent alarm state. If we don't have vaccines to immunize the population before the summer, let's get into the next winter and we'll be back here in October talking about the pandemic. So, are we going to continue working on the alarm state and the curfew continuously and steadily for another year? Looks like the reasonable thing is not. Would you trust the Government to clarify whether the FFP2 can be compulsory in certain respects, in certain places and in certain social conduct? We think so. And I'm not presuming the answer, I'm simply transferring one of Galician clinical committee reflections to consider whether transportation and other social activities are better than a surgical mask. I'm not trying to invent anything or go against anyone. I think a clear answer is needed. So I tried -- I assure you -- to look for the information from the beginning of the pandemic, to bring the cases, to find the comparisons, to make the reflections and to make all the data available to the opposition. Tell me we're giving the city data now and not before. But, Your Honor, if in the Town Hall there were three infected and we have to say that there are three, automatically the question is who I am. And so, during the first moment of the wave, when the municipalities had very few contagions, for caution criteria and for clinical history, and for no discussion or questions, we didn't want to give them. [[Murmurs.]] Do you think this was a lack of transparency, or was it just a practice to ensure the health of all people included in the infected? Yesterday there was a very interesting report on TVG, channel 2 on tuberculosis in Galicia. It would be very interesting if you saw her. Are you out of tuberculosis? [[Murmurs.]] Five thousand people die every day from tuberculosis, but the PSOE lords produce carcasses. [[Murmurs.]] We don't have a tuberculosis vaccine yet, but the PSOE gentlemen don't care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They don't consider it necessary to reflect on a pandemic like Spain in 1901 or 1902, in the Spanish flu, or to reflect on what happened in the year 25 or 30 about tuberculosis. Well, if you're looking at that report, you might be a little more sensible about the situation and see how we've been able to improve in this coronovirus situation in the face of tuberculosis. You'd see the case of the dead child in Agolada for thinking that a 19-month-old child's blood could be cured. You'd see how Galicia reacted to that pandemic and how it's reacting now. And you would be proud that Galicia is one of the safest places in Europe in the face of the pandemic. So, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's a lot to ask for, but at last, it seems like it's a lot to ask for contextualization, but then we're referred to New Zealand as a model for study. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to ask the Government what we always put forward at the president's conference, we're going to try to contribute, try to add, and, of course, to continue to exercise our responsibilities as a delegation. I'd like to be able to assure you in this plenary that this is going to be the last time we have to talk about restrictions on rights and freedoms, but I'm not ready to do it. I don't know if it's going to be that way, and that's why I said it from the beginning and finished with this reflection. I firmly believe that Galicia is a mature society. And mature societies always demand that rulers tell them the truth. That's what I've been trying to do and what I'm going to keep doing. Even though we have reason for hope on the horizon, it's weeks to go by. And while we don't have vaccines, we'll have very hard months, like every week and hard months we've been living since March. And so I want you to know that I'm feeling social fatigue that also feels the vast majority of our neighbours after months of restrictions. And I feel the enormous challenge facing our life-playing health care -- it's not the first one that's been in a coronovirus ICU for several weeks. I'm sorry about the efforts of the workers in the homes of the elderly and the disabled, who continue to care for the most vulnerable population. And I feel the despair of all those who don't know when they'll be able to reopen their business and who are in ERTE -- that many of them, when the ERTE ends, will be exposed to unemployment --. And, above all, I want you to know that I feel from heart the pain of every family that has lost a loved one, because I am aware that every success is a grandfather, a grandmother, a brother, a brother, a father, a mother, a son or a daughter. And for all those who have been worth giving this battle, this unpublished battle that we are having since the Government of Galicia -- and I hope that with greater support of the opposition every day --. We have a health system that's cutting, and a tracking team that tries to isolate cases with increasing involvement. We have a process of starting vaccination that we accelerate and we will accelerate exclusively depending on the number of doses. All doses coming to Galicia will be dispensed as soon as possible, and so I commit to vaccinating the entire autonomous community in between eight and ten weeks, depending, for example -- although there are some here that don't match -- because of the condition of the vaccine, of how that vaccine is handled, what is its state of conservation or how many doses are placed -- one or two --. There are people who don't care because they think we don't have criteria. Not to us. We believe that we have criteria and that's why this proposal to vaccinate in eight or ten weeks the entire population of Galicia is a proposal we make from the rostrum after studying the different possibilities of vaccines. And we have, above all, each other, which is the most important. We have each other to look after each other; because, if we do, the percentage of infection is residual. And by any chance, the percentage of infection increases exponentially. I know we're asking for a capital effort to join all those we've been asking since March, but I also know that there's a people able to get it back and become an example for all of Spain. I am absolutely convinced that, if there is a people able to achieve it again and to be an example for all of Spain, that is the Greek people. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u50	Thank you, President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We continue with the agenda, with non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and three other Members, on the establishment by the German Government of direct aid to the self-employed and pem-related sector directly to the hospitality sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u51	There were no amendments to this proposal. Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Finally, in October, the Socialist Group, on the occasion of the second wave of the pandemic, presented to the House a number of initiatives -- among them, initiatives that have to do with the economic reactivation of the sectors most affected by the pandemic, especially housing, self-government and small trade --. We presented them in the face of a situation that was at that time very complex, very delicate. And despite the fact that the initiative is October, the reasons and arguments justifying the initiative are consolidated today and are still much worse, as it shows the level of contagions we are living in, as shown by the measures that from the clinical point of view recommend the closure of the entire hostel in this country and as a result of a huge impact on the economic activity of Galicia, on the economic activity of a sector that constitutes the epicenter of the crisis that is experiencing the whole economy of the country. It's true that we are experiencing an asymmetric crisis, which is not the same in all sectors. But we must also acknowledge that, over the last ten months, if there has been any sector especially continuously affected, it has been particularly the hospitality, small trade and self-government. The magnitude of the crisis right now is enormous. Finally, the budget data -- an initial GDP drop of 9.7 % -- I think they're already exceeded. Today there is data showing that German GDP is going to fall at least 11.1% by 2020. The unemployment rate is back in data from 2009, or even higher, with 189,000 unemployed on 31-12. There is a breakdown in the hiring of 31 per cent at that date. The housing sector -- which occupied 66,000 workers in 2019, which amounted to 4,5 % of GDP, which billed 4,700 million euros and ultimately grouped 21,000 establishments -- is currently suffering from a spectacular economic downturn; a fall in annual activity that, inter-annually -- measured from November to November with data -- is 66,3 %. There's a drop of 17.3% in that sector and a drop of 77.5% in overnight stays. Finally, there is a risk that if we do not take strong support, resistance and reactivation measures in this sector, which we put -- let's say -- to solve the maintenance of 30,000 jobs, as shown by the sector through the tourism cluster. The Socialist Group, in view of this situation, has tabled amendments at the budget amendment stage, already in December, providing that there would be difficulties and that the budget was not providing for specific measures for the reactivation of economic activity, especially as regards the impact it has on this sector, in the hostel and in the small autonomous sector. We have raised amendments worth EUR 62 million, EUR 62 million under the section of the Economic Council, under the budget section of the Igape and, therefore, clearly stating where this money had to come from to effectively allocate the economic reactivation of the most damaged sectors and today we see that they are in a dramatic and very complex situation. In that context -- we said yesterday in the budget vote, in the budget debate -- the People's Party decided not to approve any amendments despite we -- I think we all agree here, in this proposal -- we understand and continue to understand that it is vital, that it is vital to establish all the spending capacity, the potential debt capacity of the Galician Union to reactivate the economy, to reactivate these sectors. Despite that -- and that we all understand it -- the People's Party does not accept the amendments, it does not accept the amendment where the Socialist Party honestly proposes a reactivation plan with specific splits of 62 million euros for hostel and autonomous. You don't accept that amendment, but you didn't accept any of the amendments that were made in the states of expenditure -- 575 amendments --. [[Applause]] So the People's Party in this case I think that, despite the fact that in this House it has an absolute majority, it has not acted with due diligence, it has not acted on the thought that at least one of the amendments to the opposition is also good for this country and that it is proposed in terms of aid to this country. So to appeal to consensus, to call for dialogue, yes, but when we put forward positive initiatives, we would also like that from the Government's support group if these kinds of requests were met. With the budgetary change, the only thing we were proposing, the only thing we wanted, was to give a powerful response, a more agile and stronger response to the situation, which is becoming dramatic, insisting, for the hospitality and for the small self-sufficient. Here we are not going to repeat today's debate of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the appearance of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who gave data, and the groups also gave data and reaffirmed political positions. I'm not going to go into a question that we all know is very complex and very difficult. We all know that we are living in an unprecedented moment and a dramatic moment. We understand that solutions can be reached within the framework of a consensus in this House, and I believe that we all want consensus in the sense that we understand that hospitality must be saved and that small trade must be saved. Mr. Núñez Feijóo announced today a plan of 75 million, if I didn't hear you wrong. Well, does 75 million look good to them? We were thinking 62. At that time the spokesperson for the People's Party in that commission voted no, and justified the no, because it came uniquely and exclusively that amendment from the Socialist Party, without more. Okay, 75 million, but I think they're going to be insufficient. Together has more budgetary capacity. Last year -- it's been said here a moment ago -- received from the funds I'm saving 735 million euros, 224 million to compensate for the fall in economic activity. The budgets of the Union this year are expansive, as never!: 1,575 million more spending capacity and 1,100 million European funds combined with State transfers; 685 million. So there's level, there's budget capacity to implement tips. He has to do it to Galician Union, he has to do it to the state. Here the state was questioned, as if the state here had done absolutely nothing: EUR 1.2 billion over the year 2020 to support economic activity, 280,000 allowances in the ERA and 95,000 in autonomous countries. In November 2020, 26,000 people were charging an ERTE benefit in Galicia and 20,000 were autonomous. Well, I don't know if it's doing much or nothing, but I think that economic activity in this country, in Galicia and also in the whole state, if it was supported by an effort that we made all the citizens of this country, and it was also funded through European institutions. But also in Galicia the state has made an important effort. In this sense, our proposal is no other than to invite political groups in front of what can be an added risk that, if they are making decisions, not only may business closure or unemployment, but the social exclusion grant will also be extended in this country. So let them take decisive action. And our initiative is in the only sense that we have a consensus in this House: that all kinds of economic impact measures should be taken and extended to deal with this unprecedented situation that is living the economy of the country, which is living the Greek economy. We launched an initiative that seeks consensus and agreement. I daren't say if it's 75 million, 150 or 200 people who need it. But I'm just saying that at the moment there's a strong need for an answer. They look good to us at 75 million, but they're insufficient right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u54	We therefore call on the People's Party, especially the BNG, to support this initiative, to make this initiative a consensus initiative where the debate must indeed be to save the economic sectors that are in crisis and to make less propaganda, as Mr Feijóo has done by announcing 370 million euros, without direct aid that he does not know. It's important to check the lies that each account counts, and where it counts. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Francisco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pérez López has the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u56	President. The situation in the hospitality sector is critical, and so they have communicated it from the sector to the various meetings held so far. The problem is that the situation in this sector has been critical for many months, for as many months as it has been for the BNG Parliamentary Group to denounce the urgent need for hostiers. This is undoubtedly one of the most severely punished sectors by the necessary restrictive measures of mobility, activity or time, adopted by the state and the Galician Union since the beginning of the pandemic. But it is necessary to contextualize this initiative of the PSdeG Parliamentary Group in order to be able to convey to the Greeks and to the Greeks in a clear way what is the position of the opposition, that of the PP and that of the Galician Union today, and what measures have been taken so far by the Union in relation to the self-government and pemme sectors related to the hospitality sector. So, on January 20th this year, there are only six days, since the BNG we have reached the unanimous support of Parliament's groups to an initiative in which we agreed, in its resolution, to urge the Union to put in place an extraordinary and urgent plan of direct aid for the hospitality; aid that should be compatible with any other aid or promotion measure that could be granted from another public administration; to simplify administrative procedures; to discriminate according to the real vulnerability of business; and to which the deadlines for lack of appropriations from the Union and from the ICO credits would be extended. This initiative of the BNG was motivated by the lack of practical effectiveness of the aid articulated so far by the Galician Union. In April, Junta launched before anyone -- as they were charged with advertising mainly in the media, as is usual -- a plan to rescue culture and tourism that contained measures directed to self-government, and in particular to the hospitality. They would be the first, but, of course, little impact had on the sector that so shaky plan. That plan did not contain a single line of deep-lost direct assistance, which was what the sector was already demanding at that time. If it contained help for digitization and soft lines of credit, but the problem was that the percentage of hosts who welcomed these measures was low, because seeing the evolution of the pandemic and the measures they were taking did not see themselves clearly get indebted without knowing if they would be opened a few months later. After this came the precipitate, the campaign, the elections, the formation of the Government of Greece, the summer, and it wasn't until November when new measures were taken, some targeted, specifically, to the hostel, such as those intended for financing the installation of terraces or credit lines, and others referred to the self-employed, microenterprises and the hospitality sector; a so-called rescue plan, and matching these measures with the closure or limitation of the activity and schedule imposed by the Union in October. But we can only define them as patches that have not compensated for nine months of lack or drastic decrease in invoicing in the sector, where current costs have continued to be incurred from rents of premises, water, light, maintenance of the own establishment or machinery itself. And, entering the kid, the aids to install terraces show that in Junta they live in another country, in a parallel country where from November to March the sun always warms, temperatures are pleasant and they want to stay on the terraces until late. And, in addition, we find ourselves with two other problems: one, which in many hotels don't have the possibility of installing a terrace, and, if they can do so, it means having to make an investment, which they don't have liquidity, despite that help that has been laid down by Junta in November. What about the credit lines? We go back to the usual: how do we get in debt if the lodgers don't see the light at the end of the tunnel? In short, these measures that I have just stated have come late for many hospitality businesses in this country, as if extracted from the December RETA casualties referred to in the hospitality, or as we see when reading the press and seeing how every day throughout Galicia close mythical establishments, though there are many more who come down the grid anonymously, but not least sad. And for those who have endured all these months accumulating losses, the articulated aid from the Union was clearly insufficient. Not even the maximum aid accounts articulated in that so-called November rescue plan solve the pressing economic and liquidity problems of thousands of hotels in this country. So the sector showed him, who went out on the street to protest for his situation with mobilizations that still remain active today, just until today. And so things, a few days before our initiative to articulate direct aid to the inn, Junta launched in the press -- of course, where would it be? -- that they were negotiating with the sector the creation of a cooperation fund to channel future aid to the sector, where Junta would put 50 %, the deputies, 30 % and the municipalities, 20 %. And it goes on that from the BNG we think it's time for all the administrations to reach their shoulder; so we have already shown our complete willingness -- in this committee, in the meetings with the sector and in the statements of our national spokesperson -- to which the councils and deputies participate in a three-band plan of aid, as proposed by Junta, but look!, in which each administration makes the same budgetary effort, and always since the negotiation. And when we talk about equalizing the budget effort, we mean that each administration contributes the same percentage of its budget. If the Union commits 1% of its budget, the different municipalities and deputies would contribute that same percentage of its budget. In this way, the contribution of different administrations would be balanced on the basis of their budgets; the approach that we consider fair and balanced, economically assumed by the municipalities and Deputies, and logically also by the Union. And balanced, because it's worth remembering that the municipalities with economic muscle -- which aren't all, unfortunately -- are assuming improper expenses on this pandemic, as can be the increase caused by the costs of disinfection -- that don't clean -- in educational centers. The disinfection protocols established by the Galician Board suggested that the usual and ordinary provision of services would become an extraordinary provision of services which companies that normally provided ordinary cleaning services for those municipalities wanted to be compensated. And those who took those extra expenses were the municipalities, by responsibility, when, precisely because of their extraordinary character, and derived from an extraordinary situation like the pandemic, they corresponded to the Union. This approach to the cooperation plan is also fair to the application of a basic principle of proportionality that is given in the fiscal and the world of justice. That's why we understand that each administration should provide that cooperation fund with an equal percentage, taking as reference its budget. But while the three-band cooperation fund is still being negotiated, the Board has not yet put in place the immediate direct aid plan to which the PP, PSdEG and BNG parliamentary group urged in that committee agreement. Because the announcements are not supposed to give effect to parliamentary agreements; the announcements are. We need more DOG and less advertising from the board. [[Applause]] And while these ads don't materialize, this PSOE initiative -- which means that the BNG has unanimously adopted in committee -- makes all the sense. At the moment, one of the most urgent problems that depends on the survival of much of the sector is the lack of liquidity, and so they transmit it to us from different hospitality associations; liquidity essential to compensate in part the months of continuous losses and keep their businesses open, or even maintain their families. This lack of liquidity within the hostel especially suffocates nighttime leisure and concert halls, closed since March. Without that necessary direct economic injection, a lot of business can't stand in the next few months; months that will, of course, be hard for all. The proposed cooperation plan will not be an instrument to channel aid to the sector immediately, as the hostess of this country are claiming. It is precisely immediately what is required. If from the Government of Mr Feijóo there is a closure of a sector, which is what is happening with these new restrictions, this sector has to receive immediate direct help to compensate for the losses, because there is no mattress to stand. That cooperation plan will not respond, precisely because of this lack of immediateness, to what the sector is demanding. The creation of this cooperation fund, which must be a rescue from the sector and not a patch, needs time for its realization and effectiveness and that all parties act in a responsible and loyal manner, and that depends precisely on the future of the sector. But precisely what you don't have much of the industry is time, you need direct help now. So we're going to ask from the Board to launch a plan of direct, extraordinary, urgent and immediate aid, which responds to the lack of affluent liquidity that they are suffering in the sector, not only to keep business, but even to bring money to their homes to maintain their families; a plan that contains immediate direct aid to compensate for the losses recorded by the sector's businesses during the duration of the restrictions. Finally, that the agreement reached unanimously, the BNG initiative in the Commission 6th of a week ago; a plan which is essential for the current situation and for the many months in which losses have been accumulated by not being able to work for the necessary restrictions of activity and time; and a plan that does not exclude the articulation of other plans -- like this one we are now talking about from the Cooperation Fund -- in which the three administrations intervene. Only in this way could the hostery escape from the critical, absolutely critical situation in which it is found. And for this reason, by going to the non-legislative proposal of the PSdEG in line with the agreed Commission 6th at the initiative of the BNG, this initiative will have the support of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. At a time when the crisis of the coronavirus is worsened for the third time, this parliamentary group shares the great concern of the Greek Government for companies, for professionals who are particularly affected by the restrictions adopted, and especially in the area of the hospitality, no doubt one of the most affected. So far this concern shared with opposition groups has materialized by the Union in the largest aid package to a sector in the history of our community. Through the rescue plan nearly a hundred million euros were invested in supporting self-employed people and companies affected by the health crisis, which included a complementary departure -- that is 17 million euros -- intended exclusively for the inn. We are talking about that every provision that has applied for aid received between 2,700 and 8,500 euros depending on its specific situation. It's one of three autonomous communities with the highest aid in Spain, as much as it bothers the Socialist Party. In addition, within the General Plan for Economic Reactivation of the Galician Union, avaliables, microcredits and loans were approved to provide liquidity for the productive fabric, mobilizing 140 million euros; and loans from Igape were approved until June of this year. And finally, another line of specific assistance was created for the 3 million-euro hotel facility for the installation and renovation of terraces and for the grant and packaging equipment for the home food service. Without a doubt, the most important of these help lines was not only their count -- Galicia is the third most helpful thing in all of Spain -- but also the range they had and the agility to get them started and pay them. Some 15,000 aids were granted, which means more than 70% of the accommodation facilities in Galicia. There was agility in the aids, in their processing and also in the payment. Prior to the expiry of the application period, 70% of the applications had already been paid, and at present 90% of the applicants had already been charged. So we don't accept lessons from those who didn't do anything. The work of the Union does not end here because, in order to deal with this new wave and the new restrictions established by the Clinical Committee and the Galician Union, the Greek Government is preparing a second rescue plan, as you know, because it was communicated to the press after we met with the sector, after the meetings held by the first Vice-President of the Galician Union. So there are no announcements here, there are meetings with the sector, which are the truly representative of the hostess and the way, when and where. And, therefore, lessons from those who become mere spectators to us, of course, we are not willing to accept them. At that first meeting with the lodgers to prepare this second rescue plan to the hostel, the proposal -- not from the Greek Government, but from the hosters -- to apply the Valencia model. And the Valencia model assumes that the Galician Union provides 50 % of the funds of that rescue plan, the provincial deputies, 30 % and the municipalities, 20 %. It's a proposal from the hostess, not from the Galician Union. What we do not understand is how the Socialist Party, which could have self-amended this initiative and did not, in the Valencian Community defends a question and here criticises that same proposal. Therefore, I believe, Mr. Francisco Rivera, that there has been a long time since we saw an initiative as opportunistic as this one. [[Applause]] Look, the PSdeG included on the agenda of this plenary an initiative -- you said -- recorded on 22 of the 10 of last year -- October of 2020 -- in which a plan of assistance for the hotel was requested. This initiative is due to this plenary because you have now asked to include it -- not before --; you have now asked to include it on this agenda, January 27. And you know what? By urging us to do what we're already doing. Look, I want to regret the political opportunism and political cynicism of the Socialist Party. It's not a receipt to urge someone to do what he's already doing, and much less a receipt to urge someone to do what he's already done. And that is what the Socialist Party is proposing to us today on this initiative; this initiative is similar to that which we approved last Thursday in committee to the instances of the Nationalist Block Galego, in which we proposed to include the Valencia model, and the representative of the Socialist Party refused. That is the Socialist Party: total, absolute cynicism. Look, you have the opportunity this afternoon -- that they meet again with the Fegamp and representatives of the deputies -- to demonstrate in their next intervention that the institutions governed by you will make with the commitment that the president has shown today, increasing that initial share of EUR 50 million from Galician board for this plan, and today expanded to EUR 75 million to cover the costs of the hospitality of January and February. You rule in three of the four provincial deputies, you rule in six of the seven municipalities of the main cities of Galicia. Were you involved in this plan? Are you going to bring in? What they can or what they want, but did they bring anything? Because the fact is that up to now his initiative is absolute political opportunism and political cynicism. Look, we don't agree with the double morals and contradictions of the Galician Nationalist Block. Mrs. Pontón has the extraordinary ability to unfold. In the morning he asks in the means of decreeing total confinement -- capacity of which, by the way, he lacks the Council of Galicia -- and in the afternoon he manifests himself with the lodgers criticizing the hardness of the measures established by the Clinical Committee of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, be a little more serious, don't take people's hair off, because people are going through trouble. They respect the technical decisions of a clinical committee perfectly endorsed and formed by professionals who certainly do not play with partisan interests. And if they really want to help the lodgers, they support them from the institutions where they govern that collective, because they really don't. The BNG is installed in that of "do what I say, not what I do," because in Pontevedra Town Hall, where you rule, and no direct help at the hostel -- as the Pontevedra People's Party has claimed -- no tax down, as we have proposed at various plenary sessions. That's political cynicism on the part of the Galician Nationalist Block, too. "Do as I say, not as I do." [[Applause]] On the terrace aids, Mr. Pérez López -- which seems to you like frivolity and says that this government is not in the street -- well, look, the terrace aids that he put in place the Junta de Galicia are exhausted; so it's not going to be those who don't live in the country that are you. I believe that we should not be tricked by ourselves, by society as a whole, by the hosts with that 1% proposal and budget effort. You know why? Because, look, it's that 8 out of every 10 euros of the Galician board budget is committed to 1 January. Do you intend us to remove funds from public health, to take funds from education or social policy to give those resources -- health, education and social policy -- to the hostess? Say it openly because, if not, that percentage of total budget effort is a hair boot; and therefore I think you're looking for excuses from bad payer. Look, we put 75 million euros on the table. The administrations in which you rule, what will they put? Tell them, because they're looking for excuses not to participate, just like the Government of Spain does. They're talking about ERTE. Look, it's just that the ERTEs are a worker's right, so far we could get here! It's not a help, it's a worker's right; by the way, it's derived from the labour reform approved by the People's Party, so questioned by you. You're sick demagogues, that's reality. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, PSdEG-PSOE is always the first to criticize Galician Union. They're there to see if they can criticize everything, but where are they when it's time to issue responsibilities to the central government? They're not, they hide under the stairs, they shut their mouths and try to pass unnoticed. During the first wave of the pandemic the Government decreed total confinement and paralysis of almost all economic activity. Euros of aid for the Spanish Government's inn? Sky! By the way, who shut down the nighttime leisure in this country called Spain? It was the central government. Do you help with nighttime leisure? Sky! Galician union put help. [[Applause]] So this is a matter of stopping doing demagogy, of stopping acting as Mr. Gonzalo Caballero did today, of Tertullian, of commenting on reality, of getting his shoulder together with those with whom he has the responsibility to rule and stop taking the hair of people. [[Applause]] Look, they passed the first wave of the closed pandemic at home, from pajamas to candals and from bed to sofa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u60	...without collaborating with anyone. And now we're on the third wave of the pandemic and, of course, the Greek Government is where it has always been, in front of fear... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u62	...assuming responsibility to govern, and assuming wear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u63	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u64	Each one who intends to take political cuts from the management of a pandemic! I have to tell you that this is a despicable and quite regrettable attitude.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u66	Disregardable in political and despicable terms too from an ethical and moral point of view.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u67	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u68	And despite everything, you know what, we won't give you the pleasure of voting against this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u69	Mr. Tellado, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u70	...we voted for her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u71	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u72	It's approved. He's urging us to do what we do and do what we do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u73	Your time is up, Mr. Tellado. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u74	Yes, good morning. Again I was telling you, Mr. Tellado, that with you the temperance in speech is not worth it. Here you have to come with the helmet on every step of your way, because if anyone really does demagogy in this Parliament, it's you. If there is a real cynic in this Parliament, which practises cynicism, it is you. [[Applause]] And against that there is no vaccine, Mr. Tellado... against that there is no vaccine. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I put forward a minimally honest debate: the need to help the economic sectors that are in crisis today using an October initiative; indeed, initiatives that we have registered in December and that have not yet entered. We didn't even figure out the effects of the third pandemic; we're not guesses, I don't know if you had any data. You denied -- and there is absolute cynicism -- in the committee and voted against an amendment by the Socialist Party of EUR 62 million in December, where the economic sector was actually reactivation, which is at stake today. That is you, cynicism, the cynicism of the People's Party; the same cynicism that Mr. Feijóo practiced here today, exactly the same. It speaks of 370 million euros for direct aid. Where? You just gave yourself the data, which is correct. These are the data: hosting, 17 million, plus one line of the Igape of 3 million, 20 million, which is complemented by autonomous aids of 30 million and another of 37, and there's no more. The rest is propaganda, absolute propaganda, as are the 5,000 million that announce in memory of the 2021 budgets that will be dedicated to the struggle against the pandemic. 5,000 million! You add up all the matches, you add up 5,000 million and then you say they're investing, that they're... Mr. Feijóo gives exactly the same thing as saying 370 million to say 5,000 million, it looks exactly the same! You're talking about PSdeg making ads and using it in a way... well, making ads. The announcements have to be made since the Galician Council in the CEO, that's where the announcements are to be made, and that's where you have to see the real help the sector has. You're talking about each lodger receiving 2,000 euros. Look, you don't even know... ask Mr. Ferro, who is a hostess and who has a hostess, to see how much help he has received. It's false!, it's false!, it's radically false. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] You're installed in propaganda... - Sorry, Mr. Iron, for quote, that you weren't in the debate... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You are installed in propaganda, you have the means to do it. You have institutionalized propaganda through the media. They have inoculated, through propaganda, genuine falsehoods, as is what Mr. Núñez Feijóo said here today, of 370 million. Unbelievable! [[Murmurs.]] He said direct help: 370 million. You're going to vote in favour, a question I thank you for. I see them well; I see them well, what happens is that they're going to be insufficient. That is why an honest proposal, which is what the Members of Parliament and the 1 % of the budget are doing, 156 million in this case. 1 % is a proposal that would also be assumed by deputies and municipalities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sure, sure, sure... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda, who is also in the debate, is telling me how many things... yes, I know I lie; I lie and you are the apostle of the truth. [[The Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Rue Valenzuela, speaks words which are not perceived.]] I don't think you're telling the truth or when you go to the doctor, so I'm telling you, about this. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Finally, as it is impossible to go up to this stage and maintain a minimally quiet debate when Mr Tellado intervenes, I would also like you to vote in favour of this initiative. And be assured that we will continue to insist on this subject, like it or not, see you opportunism or not; we will continue to insist on it because we do not ask for it. We support, just like you -- I understand -- a sector that is suffering right now. It's nesa, nesa... [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u75	Quiet, please! Mr. Tellado, be quiet. We'll all go quietly, please. And besides... just a moment, please! [[Murmurs.]] We're going to take this calmly with what we need to take it and, above all, for the good and for the protection of everyone we're here. And forgive me for insisting so much on this matter, but we're all going to be careful, for the sake of everyone we're here and for the image we have to move abroad too, please. Aerosois... you know what the president said here this morning. Please let us all comply with these measures, I strongly ask you to do so. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u76	It's over, Mr. President. Well, I want to thank BNG also for supporting this initiative. We know that the BNG has put forward initiatives in committee. The Socialist Party did not vote in commission the other day; it did not vote or say no to something that was not discussed in that committee, Mr Tellado. He didn't vote no, he didn't lie...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u77	Mute
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u78	...don't lie, you didn't vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u79	Quiet, please, once again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u81	Quiet, please. But today the debate is taking place differently. Quiet, please. Finish it, please, now. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Tellado, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u82	Mr. Tellado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u83	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u84	Anyway, I'm done. I hope that the House as a whole -- and I know, in addition -- will understand the situation in which the Greek economy is experiencing and, in particular, the most affected sectors, of what we have been talking about today on this initiative. That the majority party in this House should not be closed to debate matters brought by the opposition by appealing to the opportunism of the opposition in relation to the matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u85	Thank you, Mr. Francisco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u86	...how is opportunism to bring an initiative at a high point where the host sector is impacted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u87	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u88	Opportunism is to deny the evidence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u89	Thank you. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, your time is up. Please finish your time, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the increase in mortality and morbidity in Galicia since the beginning of the pandemic of coward 19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u90	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Iria Carreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u91	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. We're on January 27th. In a few weeks or so there will be a year already from the first case of the vault we had here in Galicia and a year from the alarm state that the pandemic brought with you, and today we are launching a much more restrictive new measures after several consecutive days in which we have overcome -- every one of these days -- the thousand new cases of covid. We'll meet at a time that's certainly difficult. Today there are 21,293 patients who are infected with SARS-COV-2 and are already about 1,700 people who were unable to overcome it. And I'd like to have an impact on the absolute figures on the margin of percentages and averages compared, because I think it's important to remember that we're talking about. It would be very unfortunate to fall into the routine of reading these figures as those who read a part of war or a mere litany of numbers. All these figures have a name behind them that will always carry with them the roof of the cave; unfortunately some of them because they have already been, many others, such as those who are now admitted or in intensive care, because they will have to live with the sequels of this pathology, and many more will take them through the social and economic sequels, from workers who have been forced to confine themselves and stop their activity, even students who have not performed the examinations they had planned or even autonomous that had to close their business during convalescence and who leave behind them another rule of figures much longer and much more difficult to interpret. But the pandemic is much more than this, than the simple infection with SARS-COV-2 and the confinements of positive cases and contacts. The pandemic is also a health system that is set against the ropes, with exhausted and exhausted professionals, overburdened by the huge increase in their work. The pandemic is also complementary evidence and non-emergency surgery, is the limitation of face-to-face, is the interruption of care for chronic pathologies. The immediate attention that demands shelter in a system that was already in a complicated situation implies that many other needs have been discovered and, unfortunately, this reorganization has not been limited to spring, but we are now seeing it when the coronavirus has been "pleasant" months living with us -- note the sarcasm --. They suspend and reprogram non-urgent CHUAC surgeries for hospital prisons. "Sources of the hospital complex recognize that they are delaying these operations in patients with no risk whatsoever -- January 14 news--." "Health suspends surgery in Compostela, Ferrol and Coruña in the face of the foreseeable lack of beds. The Health Council gave the order this week to suspend or reschedule non-emergency operations in these hospitals due to the worrying situation going through -- January 15 news, both this month--". No one criticizes this situation for spring, but what's already beyond the tolerance limit is that this happens in January, when it's almost a year of pandemic and when we already knew this third wave was going to be particularly virulent. A year of improvisation and always getting stuck, running when the virus is around us. A year in which public health didn't really strengthen itself to meet the challenge ahead. It's quite the opposite, for example, I put the case of primary care, in which the tasks of the professionals increased abysmally by assuming these an important bureaucratic burden by limiting their presence or by following up a large part of the patients, both of whom were positive for infection and their contacts. And with regard to the latter, I would like to make a mention, because it's the primary care that's bearing the greatest burden of these follow-up. The Contact Monitoring Centre is an entity that is not working well, that on many occasions does not detect the contacts of each positive patient, that does not send the results that correspond to it or that directly works too slowly. And this ends up being redirected to primary care doctors, who assess contacts, who address the doubts and concerns of many patients who are unclear when they are in contact, or what measures they have to take in each case. These are the doctors who ask the CRPs, the ones who call to give the result and the ones who follow up during the ten days of isolation. A whole work load that leaves professionals overwhelmed and primary care on the edge of the collapse. And in this sense, and linked to the content of this initiative, the Galician Bioethics Council was also pronounced a few weeks ago. I quote textually: "Given priority to the covid pathology negatively affected the integral care of primary care, especially those of patients with chronic pathologies, since it refocused the attention of other diseases, removed care processes that were considered less priority and delayed certain emergency activities with the risk of causing serious side effects to people's health." The World Health Organization has already warned in August last year that the interruption in health care that the pandemic underwent could lead to an increase in mortality from causes other than short- and medium- and long-term cover. Interruption, in addition, with important consequences in the case of chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes, cancer or mental pathology; in which diagnoses as well as treatments have decreased in all of them. For example, in the case of cancer, a number of studies have already indicated the significant decline in early detection of neoplasias as well as the decrease in diagnosis itself. According to the European Society of Medical Oncology, the third part of the oncology treatments across Europe were interrupted. We have already discussed in this House about this issue, the coming down of the oncological diagnoses that were being produced and the alarm that should trigger. And this decrease is not because the disease actually decreases, but because we are not able to detect it in its earlier stage, and when it is detected in more advanced stages, treatment is less effective, with higher side effects and lower cure rates. There are fewer diagnoses because there are fewer consultancies, because we're doing a medicine that, if it can actually serve on time to avoid a crisis, cannot be extended indefinitely. We can't allow this country's health to continue to operate telematically, with patients who often don't consult because they don't understand how they have to do it, how they have to ask for appointments, who don't come near health centers because they're afraid or because they don't want to bother, because they know the complexity of the situation. And I wish it was a sentence made, but I think of the most dramatic things you can hear is, "I don't want to come near me because I know you're very bad." All of this has clearly palpable consequences. But we're not just talking about cancer, we're talking about diabetic patients who aren't carrying out periodic controls and who don't have ulcers on their feet that are very difficult to cure; we're talking about heart disease that is decompensated because they don't listen periodically; we're talking about patients with COPC who aren't given the necessary control spirometry, they're not hearing either when they get worse, and they're often receiving antibiotic treatment, in case they're not, well above what should be assumed; we're talking about mental diseases, beginnings of depressive or anxious disorders that aren't paying attention, because telephone consultation doesn't create a medical-patient relationship properly worthy for attention. And all this pathology won't disappear. Experts have been warning from the beginning of the pandemic that after the immediate morbidity and mortality of the coward, there are other waves that will have to respond: on the one hand, urgent patients who do not receive that were delayed by resource restrictions, also the impact on the interruption of chronic pathologies and, in a far more notorious and much more sustained way in time, mental health care -- including the mental health of professionals -- and the impact of the socio-economic crisis and inequalities on health. We know that it's happening, there's enough scientific evidence already on this, and that's why it's important to start operating as soon as possible, and in this line it's going our own initiative. We need to know what land we are moving on, what is the situation of all this pathology that is not being dealt with, and we need to allocate resources to address it. A continence plan is needed to care for the health of the population, to meet all the pathologies, both those of the covid and those of the non-covid. The health system is now in a truly complex situation so that we can afford the luxury of being caught by surprise, when there is no room for any surprise, so we hope to count on the support of the other forces in this House to take this initiative forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Iria Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u93	Thank you, President. Good morning, or good noon to all and to all. From the Socialist Group we will support this initiative; it is indisputable. Plan an improvement, a reinforcement of material and human resources, which is something we have been demanding for years and it is obvious that it is necessary in this health system that we have, which works well thanks to the professionals, but despite the managers, and proposes information that... how ordinary it is that we have assumed as usual to come to Parliament asking for information! When we talk here or intend to give speeches on denigrating or enriching parliamentaryism, we have to think about initiatives to ask for information, which are also voted against, normally. Finally, to the thread of this that could be such a simple and direct debate that it seems to have no more content, we'd actually be talking about a dramatic situation. Therefore, from our group we also want to share some reflections, particularly after today's dreadful appearance of the president, who said an insumable barbarity pack, insumable! Look, the situation is difficult, very complicated. Governing in this scenario is a very difficult exercise of management, and all governments, regardless of their color, their level of responsibility, face a very difficult situation in which it is understandable even to err many times. And everyone if they assume -- and so does this, like? -- the best attempt to solve the situation. That's undeniable. Even if everyone doesn't seem to accept it, it's undeniable. Every government has a very difficult situation, very difficult! What happens is that you can't pretend to be always the prettiest and, besides, to watch permanently that in all circumstances you're the first one down the street and you take petals out of rose and say, "You're a phenomenon, you're a crack. Alberto, I've been following you forever." It can't be. It can't be! [[Applause]] It's just that the rulers aren't for that; sometimes yes, and very well, but not now. To make the debate a little deeper -- and really, honestly, we're going to do it; really, with all the honesty of the proposal -- we have to say that, when we say all the rulers make mistakes, it's true. I plan something: when my partner -- about what I have a deep admiration for, and he's a great manager -- the president of Extremeura, he says, about the not-putting of all vaccines, that there were some doubts at first in his effectiveness, he is wrong. And when some of them, I think they've already been expatriated, they've been vaccinated out of place -- mayors and mayors, I think in Valencia -- they're wrong, and it's regrettable. It's all right, yes, they're wrong. When in the Valencian Community -- who presides over a fellow man for which I also have great admiration, Ximo Puig -- some more flexible decisions are made about regulations, before Christmas, because they are likely to be wrong. The rulers are wrong. Now, you can't come here exacerbated, exalted, blaming the opposition that they tell you that sometimes you can be wrong, and much less when this opposition -- and I speak in the name of my group, with all conviction -- we have always been saying that governments are in a difficult situation and that we deeply respect the decisions that are made. [[Applause]] And what you can't do is deceive about the situation. The decisions are political. All right, it's fantastic that there's an expert committee, but the decisions are political, because the committees of experts don't write the DOG, for something the president and the media that board warns, announce and advance the decisions that will often be made the day before. It's also to facilitate the work of the media. And they do it before the committee meets, because the decisions are political. They're also politics when they're taken like the ones on Monday, which are hard, and we're aware that it had to be very hard to make those decisions. It was also possible to take them on December 20. So then say, "The Government of Spain has forced me to do... I don't know... it's absurd and it has too ugly a qualification to say it in this rostrum. When one goes up here to say, by some vocabulary, that one tried to leave the effect of the British strain, it's a lie. Or you lie because you're only informed by OKDiary or lying because you've followed the appearance and lied to the wisdom, which is worse. That's never said, something that says the data: that the impact of the British strain on Christmas was marginal -- and it was -- and now it's bigger -- that's-- When we discuss that the problem is the curfew or the alarm state by name, today, even today, with the greatest saturation we have since the beginning of the pandemic in ICU, look, it doesn't matter whether it's called curfew, alarm status, regional dance or tortilla sandwich; the problem is not the name, the problem is that we have those tools. [[Applause]] When you get up here, like the president, saying that you brought the government here a bill, worked with the board advisors, lawyers and juridical technicians of the board, and it's a lie because you brought it to the People's Party, what you're saying is that institutions have been fraudulently used to work in the service of the PP. And it's all right to admit it's a mistake. When a minister of the Ministry of Health is criticized for changing, after he has changed in two months, without forming a government, in the middle of the pandemic, the health adviser, the health adviser, the manager of Sergas, the education advisor, the general director of Majors... two months to change a government and now it is criticized for changing one minister from day to day. So, we're being fallacious, liars, cheaters. It's sad! When autonomous communities, on December 23, sign, agree to the vaccination plan, they also agree to the distribution, and when today they tell us the president who explains the criteria, they lie, because he knows the criteria and because he's introducing insecurity for an interest in electoral calculator, because he's counting votes permanently. He knows what the criteria are. [[Applause]] The criteria are distributed as percentages by the target population of each phase. That's what's happening. When it's said here "we've been putting on the sixth dose since the first day," -- and I'm not going to use the private conversations, and that's not Mrs. Montse Prado, who also participated, or the Health Counsellor, but Mrs. Friend, and we're taking part in meetings where we talked about these things, but I'm not going to tell us what the counselor told us before starting vaccination on the fifth or sixth dose; I'm not going to say it, because we didn't use those conversations-- you have to say that Mr. Feijó said this today, but did anyone see any initiative, any complaints about this in Galicia by the Socialist Party? No, because we're not Spain's PP. [[Applause]] We saw what was said here in this gallery about the government's damaged mascarillas infected 73 sanitaries. He was here once. We're not gonna do those things. There's also some charges about the Marine Hospital. Have you seen any initiative in this debate or in this Parliament by the Socialist Group on this? No, because it's not about instilling fear about it. If we ask for explanations about other places, but we first try to know what's going on and not use the information because yes, but it's someone else's fault. Now, with perimeter confinement and difficulty, have anyone seen some bad theater jokes about which there are municipalities that can't go to the pharmacy because you're in the town hall next door? I did see the president here talking about the Pears and making jokes: "It's that they put me in a province," and now, confined to municipalities, which is what to do, and it's well done. Have you seen anyone here make any jokes about that? No, no, no, no. We still don't know about trackers, but did anyone see here now making some veiled criticism about...? No, no, no, no. It's more, the only thing that's proposed here today is the mascarillas. All right, if the proposal is the mascarillas, let us know which proposal you want. Now, the Socialist Group -- accepting what President Feijóo says, that it is a good measure and that it is important -- we are going to present a non-law proposition in this Parliament -- perhaps, we can register it today and, if not, tomorrow -- so that, since it is important, if FFP2 masks are paid to all health professionals. And we assume that the PP will vote in favour, because before they were expelled from office, from the heads of service, from the professionals for that. [[Applause]] The Beejou doesn't care about the mask -- total, he doesn't put it -- he doesn't care about a mask of one thing or another; it's against the Government. He doesn't give a mask like a spaghetti pot... totally, he doesn't put it. So nothing happens either. Mr. Feijóo has an oblique relationship to the truth, and it's not about making theatre, it's about that we all understand that governments have a difficult situation and that there's a success in vaccination, which is a success of science and that it's a success of our healthcare system, of all Spain and of all Europe, that we can bring a vaccine as soon as we've never had a vaccine to solve a huge problem. And in view of that, Mr. Feijóo is counting votes, and today what was being heated up is the atmosphere to go on Friday to a meeting to confront. So you can't act, because loyalty is asked for loyalty, but loyalty isn't supposed to be discussing the averages every day; loyalty isn't supposed to be saying if it seems better or worse than something; loyalty is communicating, talking, transmitting, trying to evaluate and put itself in the other person's skin, which is what we do when there are things, as I just told you with some examples -- and there are many more -- and there are many more -- and there are no initiatives here to protest at anything. Because sometimes mistakes are made...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u95	...and it's not a problem to be very bad person. Being a bad person is somebody being loyal to you and still coming here trying to teach you lessons. That's what you can't stop. So we're going to support this initiative, but we ask you to understand that if it's difficult -- and we all understand it's difficult -- it's not for anyone to come here with some horrible ways to try to teach something about, exactly, it's not very trained.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u96	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u97	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the debate, allow me to take advantage of this intervention to send a reminder and my condolences to the family and to the close friends of Jose Manuel Pazos, mayor of Cangas, who was a Member of this House and to whom they fired yesterday at their home council. Beyond the political differences, I had a great personal relationship with him, and today I wanted to have that memory for a man who, since the political discrepancy, I think has always tried to serve Galicia loyally. You will rest in peace, Mr Pazos. [[Applause]] Focusing on the issue that BNG brings to us today, I would like to sincerely thank you for giving us the opportunity to value the action of the Galician Union, presenting an initiative in which he asks the Government of Greece to undertake to do what the Government of Greece has already committed to do. It doesn't happen every day, but... two petitions were made to us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The first is that we have carried out a death report in Galicia since the beginning of the pandemic to present it in Parliament. It is incomprehensible to ask for a report already made, which is public and to which we all have access -- or perhaps not as incomprehensible, as I shall try to explain immediately. Then we are asked to activate -- or activate Join -- a contingency plan for ordinary and extraordinary health care derived from the covid; a contingency plan that has already been agreed upon with the unions. The Galician Health Service deals with the Labour Commission, Satse and CSI-CSIF the Plan of Covid Continence; a plan that, essentially, is a professional recognition in terms of, by the way, where the groups of this House usually demand it: greater labour stability and better professional conditions; and it was made by dialogue and reaching agreements with the unions, with the vast majority of the unions. It's amazing if we're asked to do and compromise what's done and committed. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is obvious that Welsh health and the set of health care are almost everyone being subjected to the highest level of exigencies at least in their recent history. I think this should be obvious. And it must also be obvious that in this situation we cannot speak of normality, which is what the BNG is moving us today on its own initiative. Look, Welsh public health is going through the biggest stress test in charge of this vault with better data than most. I think I'm bringing some, because today we're asking for data. The first, the fall in transplants -- which was known this week -- In Galicia, the transplants were down by 7%, and in the rest of Spain, on average, by 19%. The waiting in surgery -- which has increased, of course -- in Galicia is 50 days less than the Spanish average. The average wait in the most serious consultations is 27 days less than in the rest of the state. Expectations over 6 months, which in 2019 were 0,9 %, and in the rest of Spain were 20 %, currently in Galicia due to the vault, 11.9 points to be in 12.8, and in Spain 14 points to be in 34 % on average. I believe, frankly, that this data assesses that the Welsh health is resisting better the impact of the vault than others, what happens is that here is trying to sustain something that is unsustainable. What we're trying to support is that we have better data, but worse health. The explanation is that we are in this situation thanks to the Greek health personnel, in which I put my utmost trust, I really say it. But of course, then, what explains what is happening in other governments where you have the responsibility to manage? What's the matter, that the health staff of other communities is very bad? I don't believe it, and I think we'll have to collide -- and we should agree -- that there's no good health without good professionals, nor can there be good work without good health management, and that's what's being done in Galicia. Look, it's essential to activate a covid contingency plan, so it's agreed with the unions and it's already being implemented. And it will be essential to activate a plan for recovery of poscovid activity, which, of course, will try to wake up as well and start up once the pandemic has passed; it is that, in addition, it has already been committed by the counsellor at a meeting here, in parliamentary headquarters, where you ask for it. And, of course, in the meantime, what do we do? Well, we're taking action. Thanks to that contingency plan, more than 1,000 health contracts have already been made in Galicia. More measures and more personnel -- in primary -- there were 87 more squares -- More Telea, more teleassisted, which you, gentlemen of the BNG, qualified as useless and which, at the end of this pandemic, doubled the patients that were being followed -- today more than 5,000 -- And you said it was useless! More and better telesaness, more video calls. [[Murmurs.]] Of course we know that there are problems and that there must be improvements, of course, yes, but say, as was said here today, in that appearance that you have dedicated yourself to commenting on Mr. Torrado, that teleassistion is not useful -- if you literally can see the recording, -- in a pandemic that basically does it is penalizing personal contact, it's not serious. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's to improve it? Of course, we agreed. More health budget. We agree, EUR 475 million more in this year's budget. More health infrastructure, we're looking at it: more hospitals, more health centers, more emergencies, more surgeons. And more dialogue for an activity recovery plan, which, as I say, has already been announced by the Health Counsellor. And by the way, in order to implement these measures and not to be shelled out, the corresponding budget allocation, which is 115 million of the Fund, is also planned. That's planning, that's serious, and that's what we had to debate today, and not to comment on a debate that took place in the morning. I have to tell you, Mr. Torrado, that, frankly, I understand that you have confirmed today that you have not been satisfied with the performance of your spokesman during that debate, and I understand it, but, man, it seems to me to make a whole amendment, as you did here, does not make much sense either. I don't know if you have anything to do with the proximity of the PSdeG Congress. I don't know, I don't know, what Mr. Knight's worth. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] The other request they make to us is certainly curious, because the truth is that you, in view of the reality of the objective data offered to them on the management of the Greek health, are discussing between two possibilities: either ignoring them or denying them. And the truth is that you usually, if the reality of the data doesn't match your story, they usually choose to discard the reality before they change the story. It's a curious question, but it's what they do. So today they ask us for a new report, which they hope will be more favorable -- understanding -- to their theories. The problem is that the report they request already exists: "MoMoMomo report, on mortality monitoring." Report by Instituto Carlos III and report that it feeds on the data collected from the registrations made in the civil records. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows the report.]] So it should have been an incontroverted question. My question is, why don't you look at this? Who have chosen, ignored or denied your data? Because the data is clear, and they show three realities. Look, declared cowardly deaths in Spain -- date of the last report -- 49,824; deaths of the MoMo report, 70,982; 21,000 more unexplained deaths. In Galicia, deaths declared by coward, 1,335; difference of excess mortality recognized in MoMo, 524; 811 minus. What does that mean? For it means three questions, three irrefutable data: The first one, which in Spain is hiding the real number of dead by the coward; is hiding the real number of dead by the coward! In Galicia, no, everyone is recognized, they're adding even to those cowardly deaths that overlap with diseases that usually cause mortality due to complications with respect to the previous situation of patients. And there are no deaths due to lack of diagnostics, because they're all collected in the statistics that make their government. They're not data from Sergas, they're data from the Government of Spain. The second unquestionable fact is that in Spain there are deaths due to lack of health care, well because of lack of diagnosis of cases covered, well because of complications like those mentioned earlier in ordinary pathologies that cannot be treated normally due to the emergent complications of the pandemic. But in Galicia the data do not reflect that situation. No, no, in Galicia the opposite situation is given, and therefore that statement that you make does not correspond to the actual data, which is obtained from the deceased registered in the civil registers of Spain, and specifically from Galicia. So I have to say this: in Spain there was lack of transparency to explain certain things, and in Galicia the Government was completely transparent, and the data so reflect it. [[Murmurs.]] They can make all the jokes or comments for the bassini they want, but the data -- I repeat again -- are the mortality rate of the Ministry of Health, the Carlos III Institute, the Government of Spain. Are you even going to discuss this data? These too? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask them to be serious. When we left here at Christmas, we were listening to criticisms of the decisions we were making at Junta, saying that we were very lax. They put two examples for you that were the paradigm of good doing, which were Valencia and Portugal. Today Valencia overcomes, in the incidence, doubles Galicia, and Portugal -- even today we know -- is asking to transfer sick people from its hospitals to Greek hospitals so that we can care for them. And you, to set a good example for us of what must be, in our surroundings, good health management, have resorted to an island in the Pacific. I ask you for some seriousness, and I ask you, Mr. Torrado, that, in addition to postulating here what should be loyalty, from time to time I have the common custom of practicing it. Today, once again, he didn't. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u100	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Iria Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u101	Thank you again, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to convey my thanks to the Socialist Group for their support for this initiative. And then, by talking a little more specifically about the proposal in this text, I would like to look at a little bit at the speech of the People's Group Member. The truth is, no one has spoken of normality, when there is no gap to normality in this situation. What it can't be is that we've been running for a year, managing, improvising in a hurry, and -- I don't know -- taking action a little under the carpet. An example of good management cannot be a primary care schedule of 40, 50 or 60 patients. That's not good management, that's poor quality of care. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And as we're also going to mention the reports, I want to put back on the table the one drawn up by the Galician Bioethics Council, which has been published -- if I don't quite remember -- on January 8 of this same year, where it emphasizes that the deterioration in accessibility poses a serious risk to the quality of care provided in the whole of Galician Public Health System. We have a health care that's not really responding to the demands of the population, and it's not that I say it or that my groupmates say it, it's also the experts, the professionals. Mr. Fandiño, co-ordinator of the E.R. Coruña and German President of the Emergency and Emergency Society, says, "People arrive to the E.R. after many telephone consultations. You must return to your presence," he points out that in the first wave emergency care has been lowered by heart problems or strokes and that now they are no longer diminished and I am no longer able to deal with them or even with their sequelae. And also, connected a little with what I'm talking about now about mortality figures, I have to say that I think there's a little conceptual error. When it comes to conducting a study on the level of "mortality and morbidity," I mean that morbidity is disease, patients who are alive and who are suffering from the consequences of diseases that have not been diagnosed in time. Covid isn't just the SARS-CoV-2 infection; the covid pandemic has many variants: it has patients who aren't consulting because they're afraid, it has patients who are consulted by telephone, who aren't seen and who are wrongly consulted... primary care professionals are supporting -- and I stress primary care professionals because they're the ones who have the highest phone charge -- a level of uncertainty in their diagnoses that can't be assumed. The situation of Welsh health is very complex and it's not just limited to percentages, and I want it to be more than explained that it's not just for the coward, it's because they were already in a weak situation. I mentioned in my previous speech that last month we also discussed the need for a report assessing the situation, in particular, of oncology services and possible delays in diagnosis; an initiative which the People's Party voted against. That is why I am not clear what will be the meaning of the vote on this initiative we are debating today. And, to finish with, I would like to make a little mention that I would be grateful if you would be transferred to Mr. President about his intervention this morning. I'm not going to get into everything the national spokesman, Ana Pontón, but it's a little bit of detail. Scientific rigour is necessary when we talk about this situation. To talk, to equate natural immunity to patients who have overcome covid infection is a mistake, and it is a serious mistake; and it is also a mistake that is contravened with their own protocols; the January 12 protocol provides for covid reinfections. I know it's very difficult to communicate on a subject where you're not an expert, but it's essential that when you're in such a position of responsibility, scientific rigor is extreme. [[Applause]] Nothing else. I'll leave it here. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Iria Carreira. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular of Galicia on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to financial autonomy and regulatory capacity in tax matters of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u103	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Puy has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In November 2014, at the first plenary session we held that month, this House discussed an initiative -- which also brought me as a member of the People's Parliamentary Group -- in which the State Tax Administration was asked to take into account a question which had already been raised by different rulings of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which is that the State Tax Administration was erroneously considering that the legal nature of the death transmission caused by the fate of the successor pacts provided for in Galician civil law was subject to income tax. Since the transmitter didn't die, they understood that it was inter-lived and they were taxing as a property security in the income tax of physical persons, which is very serious whatever tax on succession tax. Well, of course, that initiative was supported -- there were more groups in this House -- unanimously. We were defending the vigil of Galician civil law; another law also unanimously supported in this House. And although all of this was denounced also by groups of professionals like the notaries, who were so historically important in the establishment of Galicia's own civil right, the Agency continued to exceed its activity and finally reached the Supreme. What I was doing to the Tax Agency -- I said to explain briefly what the mechanism was -- was that if a good was a father and had been acquired for a long time, I would update the value by giving it to the child, I would pay for inheritance taxes; and if the son was selling it later, as the value was already updated, there was no real estate gain. So, do what he said was that the father gave it to the son to sell it and thus save the estate profit, because, in the end, what he wanted was to sell and not give an inheritance to a son. Well, this -- as I say -- has reached the Supreme. An individual Englishman -- Juan Manuel, is the name, reserving the right of privacy that he says to the judgment -- managed to get the Supreme Court to pronounce itself in a harsh judgment, which says: "The fact that this figure of departure can be used to facilitate possible tax frauds is a legal and useless argument to help interpret the article of the Income Tax Act, since in the hands of those responsible it is to avoid it by means of inspection services." I mean, what you're telling the Fairy the Supreme Court is: like in any other legal act, in a legal business, there may be fraud, you chase it with the usual means you have and don't think that whenever a father gives a child a good and the son sells that asset he's defrauding the Fairy to avoid the heritage gain. Well, that's settled. We all know that, in addition, this has allowed a very important rise in Galicia of successor pacts -- about which I will then have to say -- but surprisingly, once again, from the Administration -- we assume that it is from the State Tax Administration; I don't want to turn this into a debate of political intentions because I personally think it isn't -- I suppose from the State Tax Administration, if you intend to go back to that situation that interpreted this Agency through a legal reform that is being carried out in Congress and that it is also a legal reform directed towards prevention and combating fiscal fraud. This amends Article 36 of the IRPF law, not following the Supreme Court's council, which said that, in the case of prevention against fraud, they should be done in their own way and not in state law. And then what is done is to establish a presumption of iuris et de iure, i.e., that he never admits to prove otherwise, so if the beneficiary of a live successor pact transmits the goods received before the death of the causer, this -- the heir -- is subjugated in the situation of the cause regarding the value and date of the acquisition of the goods. I mean, if the son sells what good he received from his father, it's not calculated the value of acquisition for death because of the son, it's calculated the value of acquisition by the father. And besides without proof on the contrary, which is the most serious of this matter. Turns out, since you don't want to accept that there are successor pacts that are not fraud, suppose that, whenever this happens, we're faced with tax fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is unnecessary in this House to talk about the historical social importance of the successor pacts in life, because it is well known to all. It is true that it is a provision that is based on the freedom of those who have their goods when they die, but the truth is that in Galicia they are performing a very important social function, especially improvement pacts. If you talk to legal operators who usually work on these issues, you'll be told that reality in the vast majority of cases is due to these circumstances. The improvement pact reminds you that it is the one by which succession is fitting for descendants in particular goods, doing or not the delivery of good -- because it can usually be accompanied by enjoyment -- and it can also be agreed in that successor act that improved by good assumes certain obligations; obligations that are usually taken care of, when one is older, care at the third age, care as long as he does not die and is more prevented from working the land or care for the land than one is the owner. It's true that the current tax regime in Galicia of succession tax favored that today -- it goes to 20,000 a year, according to the Galicia Tax Agency -- 20,000 Greeks per year received, by these civil law instruments, assets inherited from their seniors. And that, in fact, is constituting an important social aid, because many people get their children to look after them; but they're also generating important economic activity at a particularly difficult time, because, indeed, what parents are doing is capitalizing, in some way, children; they're often helping to make themselves independent, to have a home, or they're help that has to do with starting a business, etc. It's therefore of great importance. I want to need, at this point, that, of course, we are not against the persecution of tax fraud and that, of course, if there is someone who uses the successor pacts to defraud the Fairy, he must be persecuted -- I insist -- like any other action or activity that is done by the taxpayers. And we're not even talking about a problem of whether it's too high or too low on succession taxes, because that would be the way to tax inheritance taxes, which -- I insist -- for the purposes of this taxation is always going to be lower than income tax as a heritage gain. And as I said before, I don't think we're talking about a political conflict either. So what we are in is a debate that affects the essence of self-government because we are being questioned about the regulatory capacity of civil law, which is in the Constitution and the Statute; and we are being questioned, in addition, about Galicia's tax capacity. Because in the end, if that were so, even if there was a succession tax here, what would be it is extracting a tax base from the Union to the succession tax so it would be a tax base from which the state is responsible for the income tax. All of this, in addition, had a particularly unpleasant aggravating, because the president of the State Finance Inspectors' Organization made statements in December last year when the press asked him about this change. And then he said, "Yes, exactly, the taxation of successor pacts, but we've detected that in many cases they were fraudulent operations..." -- in many, he doesn't even say that in everyone, even though this would apply it to everyone -- "That's why I think it's a very fair change, although it might anger the Galicians, because we had a way of not paying taxes." Well, I think the least you can tell this gentleman is that what gives us anger at the Greeks is that the Fairy Inspectors don't do their job well, that they need a legal sub-refugee for what is a historic operation, collected in our civil right, and that it is systematically considered, without proof otherwise, a fraudulent operation. [[Applause]] I want to add, in addition, that this would be legally retroactive. If someone has received a good in the past this way and still preserves it, if this law is passed, at the time of sale, it would apply; therefore, this has a rather serious social effect, because, in addition, it is unfair, since if a child receives money for the same value as a flat and another one receives the floor, what he receives money would not have to be subject to this additional taxation, instead, who receives the floor itself. I believe that all of this, at last, is a shameful question in all respects and that today, as in 2014, we should agree in the House to remove this through amendment. Groups have already announced amendments. We asked the Congress People's Group to introduce it and they've already presented it, so I've seen it in the press, as well as the Galician Nationalist Block. I believe that we should all support the withdrawal of this and that, in addition, respect our competence in tax and legal matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u105	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u106	Thank you, President. Good morning to all again. As far as Mr. Puy was concerned, with the judgement of the Supreme Court of 2016, I disagree with what I shall tell him. The Supreme Court's judgment of 2016 actually collected, ratified TSJ's judgments, which had already been upheld by the hearings as well. And what he says exactly, what he's coming to ratify, is that apart from him is an institution of the civil law of Galicia, a successor pact; therefore, an inter-living heritage transmission because of his death, and consequently he discusses the criterion of the Tax Agency, which kept the departure from him not a successor pact. That's what was at stake. He therefore said that tribute should be given as a tribute and that, if there was wealth gain, it should be taxed. I think the initiative you bring here today has nothing to do with this, it has nothing to do with it. I read the initiative and tried to find if, in fact, here, in the technical amendment of this IRPF rule introduced through the Law on the Prevention of Measures and Combating Tax Fraud -- which also transposes a European directive of the year 2016 in relation to the fight against tax evasion -- attacked the Greek successor pacts or if there was an attack on Galicia's own civil institution, as it is a successor pact. And I have to say no, I have to say no. I have to say that I see absolutely no attack on Galicia's financial autonomy in this matter; if anything I see on this initiative is the opposite, i.e. the political position of the People's Party in relation to the tax policy of the Galician Union, an ultra-liberal policy in which, at last, everything that depends on the Union is not taxed, everything that depends on tax policy is exempt from taxation or, at least, attempted to exempt as much as possible. I, if you want to, since you set an example and we understand that this is a complex subject, I'll put another one. If subject A -- which can be any of us -- transmits a good through a successor pact, taxes on succession taxes. And, therefore, in Galicia, if the transmission occurs between ascending, descending or conjugals, being the taxable base free of a million euros, it does not pay. So it only stands in succession tax and, in this case, nothing would be paid at all if the immovable property had no value of more than one million euros. If the subject is what acquires the good, he can do two things: keep it in his heritage, in which case he doesn't pay -- unless he rents it, which he would have to pay for the yields, obviously -- or transmit it to a third party, in which case it seems logical that, in that transmission to a third party, he is taxed for the estate gain. That's how far it reaches the scope of the reform that is at the root of your initiative, because you missed a collection, indeed, when you read, the article that is subject to modification in the law of the IRPF; that is, when a good is transmitted through a successor pact and of acquirers, it is supersededed in the date and in the value of the good that you initially had in the cause. But it was missing from the collection: "always it is transmitted before the death of it." That's not what you said, Mr. Puy. And so in this clause, which is a clause which, according to the Council of State, intends to avoid tax evasion and fraud, because the Council itself in its report has just established it -- at last, you probably read the report of the Council of State and, therefore, I am not going to read it -- reflect that what it is about, precisely, is to avoid, with the institution of successor pacts, a fraud that can actually happen if the subject who has the good at this time, who acquired it through a successor pact, sells it for a higher amount. I mean, if I transmit a good, I can put a higher value on it, since in Galicia there is an exemption of a million euros on the taxable basis of inheritance tax, if I transmit it to my son, to my father -- ascendant, descendant or couple -- and this can sell it even for a real price, which does not have to be the price that I passed on to him, it may be lower; therefore, there is a loss of heritage. For there is the key to reform -- we understand -- of the technical amendment to Article 36 of the IRPF Law. We therefore understand that this is the spirit of technical change. There is, in this case, an attack on the institutions of civil law in Galicia, there is no attack on Galician financial autonomy, and what it's about is to avoid intolerable abuse -- our trial and the Supreme Court trial -- which takes place in this kind of matter. So it's a technical clause against tax evasion, tax fraud. When I read the initiative, I saw that if this rule had been adopted, there would be obvious discrimination by restricting the ability to provide the heir alive, which would have to wait for the death of the causer to dispose of the good. Falso! This is fake. The buyer can dispose of the goods when he wants it, when he thinks it's appropriate. Obviously, if you transmit them and get a heritage gain, you have to pay for it. It also says it distorts the nature of the successor pacts contemplated by Galician civil law. Absolutely fake! Successive covenants are a civil law institution in Galicia, of course, which, like any other civil law institution, has tax consequences in the field of real estate transmission in particular. Because here what we're talking about is real estate that is sold after they're inherited and, as such, we have to avoid tax fraud. You know -- and I quote it -- that what is essentially about preventing or preventing the illegal use of the tax rule with notoriously artificial acts in order to produce tax savings, which is what the General Law says would tax in Article 15. Therefore, in relation to the fact that there is great legal uncertainty, since no transitional regime is foreseen, it is absolutely false, and you know it perfectly well. That's what you say at the initiative, but I'm telling you that it's false, because the taxable fact happens at the time of the later sale and at that time it is recorded according to the Vigilant legislation at the time of transmission. Therefore, there is no legal uncertainty because a transitional regime is not foreseen. And then he says on his own initiative that affects Galicia's autonomy, both as regards the development of his own civil right and the exercise of the financial autonomy of the Autonomous Community, which he uses in accordance with the Constitution and the Statute. I think this is fake, in addition to duplicate. Galicia has legislative autonomy and financial autonomy in use of its powers. The measure does not in any case affect the powers of the Galician Union, nor does it compromise any kind of income, rather the other way around...; ultimately, it is committed to the extent that it ceases to collect it, in this case, because the Galician Union, which has been raised by the State, has yielded 50 % of the IRPF. So I think it's not, that's not the spirit of the norm. And even if you don't give a political character to the initiative that you propose, that this is a matter from the Fairy and that you don't see political tendencies from the Government, I'm telling you that neither, nor, and as I see it from a technical point of view, I understand -- although I may be wrong -- that this is a rule, an amendment, which has as its objective, basically, to avoid tax evasion, to avoid fraud. Furthermore, Galicia has no IRPF competence in determining income sources. Therefore, the powers of the IRPF Board are limited in the area of the autonomic stretch which has yielded through the collection of 50 %. Therefore, you can question the wording of the article and the amendment, you can question its wording, but I think it does not constitute or set an example of what happened in 2014 in this Parliament -- which has been set as an example -- nor does it constitute, nor is it the object of simplification through the judgment of 2016, which has nothing to do with this, because what was recorded, precisely, or eliminated was the ability to understand that the departure is an institution of civil law in Greece, and therefore that it should not be taxed more than in the taxation of successions, if, in fact, the good transmitted through legitimately exceeded the million euros. That's what the 2016 judgment says. So in this sense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u108	...we understand that the technical change that is made here, improved from another point of view, has nothing to do with the attack on Galician financial autonomy, and less with the attack on the Greek civil law institutions, as are the successor pacts. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u109	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day -- or it's almost late -- all of them. Starting with the end, as I have already made in the budgetary debate, in which this issue came out the collation, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we agree with the sense of the non-legislative proposal that the People's Party comes; it is also in tune with the work that we have done in Congress and, in fact, we have also referred it to this Parliament itself, although we have not had the opportunity to bring it to the debate yet to Commission 3a, which has been, as their lordships know, interrupted in their ordinary functioning by budgetary processing, but which, of course, goes in this direction. Unlike the Socialist spokesman, we believe that in this matter, there is a technical problem, there is a clear problem of drafting the text which was drafted by the Central Government to refer to the Congress of Members and Members. We understand that this is part of the problem, but we also think that there is a political problem, because this issue, with its nuances, has already happened, and we think that it will probably happen again, because that centralism of what we have been calling from nationalist groups on many occasions about different governments also has a translation about the structures of the state, and surely there is an important bias on this issue of centralism which is practised in different forums, which are not giving the study or the importance that they deserve in areas such as the case of civil law in Greece. In any case, Mr. Puy was saying that there was no political intention in this matter. We understand that there is a political reminder, even if it seems to us that there is no evil, or that there is surely no alleviation. And I would also appreciate a little respect. I know the Socialist Party doesn't like to hear these things, but it's not my problem; I'd appreciate some consideration, just like I had it with the previous voice. We understand that it is certainly not an attempt on the subject of writing, on the intent or on the concretion that has been referred to Congress, to go against this issue, but, of course, we believe that in the final outcome it is tried. We are currently dealing with that law, which has already been mentioned, which is a transposition, in addition, of a European directive against tax evasion. We understand that this transposition is important, but the question is that the initial proposal sent by the Central Government we understand that it is a evident and evident intrusion into our economic and fiscal sovereignty and in those figures proper to the Greek law. That is why, in the face of this process, the most-mentioned German Congress Member in this House, Mr Rego, has transmitted, on behalf of our organization, two amendments which seem fundamental to us: on the one hand, we believe that this would be resolved by deleting Article 3, which amends Article 36 of Law 35/2006, and, on the other hand, by supplementing an amendment also to the deletion in Article 4 of Law 29/1987, of the tax on successions and prayers, for a number of very obvious reasons. Galician civil law collected in our Law 2/2006 provides for this possibility of the actions of delivery of assets in the life of the cause -- the told inheritance--. Therefore, they are acts that must be qualified and considered, for all purposes, and also the prosecutor, as a cause of death. We think one of the fundamental problems is that here we're talking about death issues as if they were alive. It's just not the point. So you can't make a presumption of guilt. In the latter case, the Administration should have the ability to carry out selective or random checks in order to be able to audit the possibility of any fraud. In all legal possibilities there is always a risk of fraud or violation of the meaning for which these rules are based, but we believe that the conditions for considering everything as a presumption of fraud are not given. These transmissions of which we are talking about -- the successor pacts -- made before the cause's death, should actually tax, as was said here, through the succession tax. Of course, the reform invades the powers of the Autonomous Community with regard to this consideration of the Greek civil law, and irrespective of whether, in other forums, when we speak of other aspects, of this kind of action, we have discrepancies with the Government group, as was shown in the budgetary debate, where one of the classical differences is with respect to property tax, with respect to succession tax, the fact is that in this budgetary debate we did not have as much time of debate as in the previous legislation, where that block of exemption has been increased, but it is still there and it has been manifested through amendments. But here we are talking about something else, which means treatment, we understand that fiscally discriminatory. In addition, the problem is that with this reform, in the case that the hereditary person receives the goods before the death of the causing person and proceeds to his or her engeneration, we understand that he or she is going to have to bear some expenses that would not correspond, and it would be unfair to consider an act that is legitimate -- under our point of view -- of our autonomy, of our self-government, of the German civil law as if it had been a fraud. Moreover, we also understand that in this economic context we need to take into account other circumstances that we cannot ignore and that we have also seen during the previous economic crisis, as on many occasions these pacts are important to families in order to help family members who need some kind of economic support. Here was the spokesperson for the People's Party of the number that facilitated the Welsh Tax Agency. We don't know what part of these transmissions are of object to that economic support, but at least intuition makes us think it's an important number. In addition, we saw during the previous economic crisis as well as this one as a mechanism for families themselves to get away with having the person causing, through this mechanism, no longer assumes responsibilities of another kind to provide economic support, for example, to children and daughters and that they could assume the accounts of a credit or commitments with a banking entity and, at some point, to be evaluators with their own assets, to have some kind of problem or not to be able to correspond to them. In this way, by doing so through family help and economic support, in advance of what would be the result of a post-mortem inheritance, they already had greater security in their ability to do so. We understand, as I was already progressing at the beginning of my intervention, that surely behind this result there is an intention to improve regulation to try to avoid an intentional fractionation of the figure of the prayers and that by this way people can avoid higher tax types, in that type of tapes, but of course, the original proposal of the text is erratic, is ambiguous and confusing. We think we should include the successor pacts, which should be excluded, because they are not the subject of this practice of tax evasion, because they are not, as I said, inter-living acts, as has already been explained, and therefore there is no such presumption of fraud. And we find it important on this issue, given the discrepancies that we have from the fiscal point of view and also from the point of view -- why not say so? -- many times from the claim made by the Government of Greece of aspects that deal with our sovereignty in this area. But of course, in the specific question that is being formulated, we can only agree, because, as I said before, we have amendments also tabled in that same sense and we sincerely think -- and trying to be also respectful of the philosophical intention that is probably the most technical one from the scope of the State Tax Agency, as from the most political sphere of the central government itself -- that this philosophical intention is grounded in the pursuit of tax fraud and to seek new ways of increasing the resources of the public archives is taken by a figure that is our own right, collide with our self-government and collide, we also understand, with issues that should be basic and defended by this House. I'm really sorry that it won't be that way, because it's logical that when a law is dealt with, there are issues that don't work or issues that deal with other areas. Of course, I respect that the proposed group had been respectful of not trying to bring this issue to another kind of debate, but I sincerely regret that we cannot have a little more height of sight. And, I say, we trust that during the course of the process this question can be corrected, but the fact is that we would also like this Parliament to have a unanimous position on this issue. I don't think anyone can accuse us of having a similar and compatible fiscal model, but, of course, in this matter, there is no doubt about it, and we're not going to stop supporting it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to thank the position of the Galician Nationalist Block. We've already announced these issues before Christmas, and indeed shortly afterwards, we also saw that the Block did something similar. I think we're on the same line. And, in addition, it's striking -- as PSOE always says we're here with this -- that we've raised it as a question of what it is, which is the defense of our civil law institutions and our competence autonomy. Mr. Rivera, you know I have a lot of appreciation and consideration for you, but unfortunately I'm surprised by your argument. I said from the very first moment that, of course, we are against fraud and that all the law that benefits the fight against fraud is well received by our group, I don't have the slightest doubt. But to stick this to a technical issue, it seems to me to be a rather excessive argument. You say you don't distort the Greek civil right, which says you can inherit in life with full disposition of the goods that an inheritance inherits. That's what the German civil right says -- excuse me, that's what the Greek civil right says -- And you say you can continue to inherit, but that you can sell or not, that you have the ability to dispose. If the cause is alive -- for example, my father; if my father is alive -- then I have to pay the income tax, but if he died, I don't have to pay anything. Man!, a society in which those who inherit alive are looking forward to the father's death in order to have a good is a very curious society, that which you design, because what you do is to say that whenever you live the person causing it, you understand that it's income tax and you have to pay, and if you don't, you consider yourself a fraud. But besides, it says it doesn't distort autonomic competition. Let's imagine -- because it can happen -- that the transmission in life taxes on inheritance taxes, actually, because it's not at least free of Spanish tribute, in the Greek tribute -- something that could happen, for example, when you rule, that you want to raise and reduce the exempt base of inheritance taxes-- So that person is taxed by succession taxes, but according to this rule, he sells himself before the causer falls, he also has to tax; double taxation on a matter. And besides, as I told you before, it turns out that if I'm lucky I get my father's money in cash, but instead the one in front has the bad luck that gets the same economic value but in a good furniture that needs to be sold, I don't have to tax, instead, what you have to sell the good furniture has to pay. Look, this is a disaster. If you were a little aware of social reality, you'd know how this works in the country. And this -- also said by the Bloc Member -- is a mechanism of inter-family solidarity, and mainly in rural areas, so many people guarantee, among other things, care for the elderly. You set an example for me; I'll set the same example for you. You say, a father or a mother transmits a son or a daughter a good one. They do it for an improvement pact and they say they have the condition to look after it until it fails. The child receives the good, but it turns out that the father or mother has the misfortune of having a difficult disease, a long illness, which requires hospitalization in a center where he is properly cared for. The son has no money and wants to sell the house, because he needs them to care for his father, for the treatment he has made hereditary, for you tell that son that he is a fraud and that he has to pay in the IRPF for an estate gain. Doesn't this disturb Galician civil law institution? [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Rivera, I was initially telling you a question. In this Parliament, there has always been consensus: on civil law, on fiscal autonomy, even for those who want much more tax autonomy. [[Mr. Francisco Rivera utters words that are not perceived.]] But at least we have, we defend her, don't we? This is the first time that the Socialist Party has left this consensus; a consensus which in this House has always maintained the Socialist Party's defense of Galicia's own law institutions, civil law and self-defense of our self-government's autonomous capacity. Today you, not you, the Socialist Party of Galicia, take a really regrettable step, really contrary to the Statute, really contrary to all that the Socialist Party of Galicia has meant in the construction of the self-government. I'm so sorry that I had touched you to make this paper. We also trust, as the spokesperson for the Block -- because this affects more autonomous communities; we are not the only ones who have these hereditary covenants in life in our legal order; Balearics also has it, and tell me that there are Balearic Members who are also working in the same direction -- in which this is being arranged in Congress, because if not, indeed, we will have to see in the courts, possibly within many years and after causing many prejudices to the more than 100,000 Welsh people who are holders of inherited goods in life, who are violating something that is collected in the Constitution, which is in the Statute, and who was in the consensus that this House always held in favour of our civil rights and our fiscal autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with the arrival of the autonomous administration to the aid service in the ordinary home, as well as the co-coupling of users
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u114	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u115	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Ortega Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u116	Thank you, President. The home aid service is addressed to persons or families at risk or dependency, and it is intended to prevent and address situations of need, providing support of a domestic, social and educational nature, rehabilitation or technical nature. The service lends itself to home help assistants, who are those professionals who offer comprehensive and multi-purpose services directed to older people, sick people or dependents who need special supervision and care so they can carry out all the basic activities of their daily life that they are unable to carry out for themselves. The home aid service, or SAF, is one of the pillars of our welfare state; it is one of the most emblematic services of social services. The SAF is that resource of what everyone hears talking about, but which, in fact, is a great stranger. The SAF must be valued, and it must be transferred to the citizenry the necessary pedagogy; we must be aware of what its functions and objectives are and that it needs necessary coordination with non-professional family care. On April 11th, Galician Junta announced a special home aid service to respond to emergency situations during the health alert time caused by the coward-19. During the extraordinary SAF, the Galician board has committed itself to assuming the cost of the co-operage of users and to which it would even increase its price per hour to 12 euros. We're at an exceptional moment in an unprecedented crisis, motivated by an unprecedented pandemic. Why not transfer the extraordinary SAF conditions to the ordinary? Why not liberalize an economic burden, as is, in this case, the support of dependency users? Why not increase the quota corresponding to the Government of Greece, if we are aware that the price of the home aid service has risen in the last decade and that the municipal archives are assuming it? While in the last decade the price of the SAF has increased, it has gone from just 12 euros per hour to approximately cost between 18 and 22 euros per hour -- and look what's going on here!--, the Board, despite that increase in the cost of the SAF, continues to put the same amount as more than a decade ago, maximum 9.7 euros per hour, so the rest are giving it to the municipalities and users. This is the key we have to sink into and where we have to change. I'm going to set an example then, because it's true that the German Government, moreover, is going out with headlines, as it gives hours of the SAF to the municipalities and neighborhoods, when in fact it's manipulating public opinion. What's being practiced in the municipalities -- I always say -- is the method of "I invite and you pay," and I'm going to put an example of the same official website of the Galician Union, which says, for example -- it's one of many examples -- "The board gives more than 63,000 hours per year to help at home for dependents in Pontevedra City, as well as in Marin, Poio, Gates, Barro and Bueu." Reading this, who seems to pay? Together, isn't it? Well, it's not like that, it doesn't pay the board. Pays the Board, but most of the service cost is being assumed by the municipalities. So this is an example of how you can make deceptive advertising. [[Applause]] Leave this kind of misleading advertising aside. This is like I'm picking up a person here right now, and I'm telling you, I invite you to eat, and when we're going to order the bill at the restaurant, I tell you to put more than half. Is that inviting or not inviting? So we can make things clear, because the city councils are going through a lot of trouble. Therefore, it is urgent for the proper functioning of the home aid service in Galicia, firstly, to take account of the type of financing, and for this it is only necessary that the Board increase its contribution to it and free the municipalities from an insumable burden to the municipal buildings themselves, in addition, taking into account, of course, the effort that the councils have made, assuming improper competences in many cases so that no one would remain behind in a crisis of such magnitude. The Fegamp -- the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces -- has balanced, through a study, what I have referred to for the municipalities this crisis, and the conclusions are as follows: in general terms, during the confinement, the Greek municipalities have recorded an increase of more than 17,000 new users or applicants for aid in the services of the municipal home. According to the data provided by the municipalities, the economic translation of this increase in demand for social services would have assumed monthly overruns of social services of almost six million euros a month over the base month. In this scenario, the largest economic allocations in the municipalities continued to correspond clearly to the SAF, close to 60 %, nothing more and nothing less. But before the crisis, the contribution between the local government and the Greek Government was already decompensated, and this graph shows how from 2010 to 2018 the greatest contribution, at the beginning of 2010, the contribution made to the Galician Union and how they are now taking on their own councils; now it is decompensated, not only by speaking in this context of crisis, but by earlier. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows a chart.]] It is therefore essential that we deepen and change this situation. Both the home aid assistants and the SAF coordinators, both collectives, have put together deficiencies in a sector that is in place, and must continue to be in support. This goes on the line that we have defended since our party and that it turns out that the new model not only fits through a new residential model, but it must encompass the whole sector of care and care of older dependent people, and the SAF is an obvious piar within that model. He's not being given the place he deserves. The collective itself alerts that there is a need for a refinancing increasing quota from the Autonomic Administration, and even Law 39/2006, makes Galician board responsible for planning the overall home aid service. Therefore, we need to take into account a coordinating report from the home help sector, which textually indicates the following: "We must take into account that the arrival of the board for home help service is at most EUR 9.7 per hour. Since the local approach weight is insufficient for many, the overall planning of the SAF will urgently require an increase in the price and time by the Autonomic Administration." We're not saying it, they're saying it by the workers themselves and by the workers of the sector, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Starting to solve this premise, we can take the step to reformulate and improve the home aid service, first, by reviewing and improving the working conditions of workers -- this is very important --, clearly establishing the roles of workers, shielding the safety of both groups through a network of supervision and professionalization and incorporating new professionals of psychology and social education, among others, which allow them to optimize social supervision and other things such as follow-up and rehabilitative function directed by the coordination of the service. And, above all -- and this is very important -- we need to establish a clear, direct and constant dialogue with the sector project in order to be able to supply resources not only quantitative but qualitative. In this context of pandemic, SAF is one of the essential professions that sustain life in our country. The workers and workers in the sector talk about the lack of clear protocols about this and lack of means, which has led them in many cases to an inescapable state of labour stress which has had a impact in many cases on their own health. We propose in this iodine that a person is urgently established as a link through provinces -- just as it is in residential care centers -- that it is possible to provide periodic care for workers, to protect them and our seniors. It's also made easier by protocol from Galicia's Protection Material Board. I've been asking Mr. FFP2 masks here before, but I think it's important that you make it easier for the workers themselves who are in the front line, who are not doing it, and you have to be consistent and honest with citizenship. Even by setting an example, these workers, within their functions, can have a user bathe, or even shave, and at that time logically, the user does not have the mask on; then, they are totally unprotected. So this is very urgent. Therefore: impulse and reinforcement of the home aid service, not only with the sum of hours without coordination or dialogue with social agents and the Administration -- which they pay for this, by the way-- updating the co-operation of the Government of the Union in a rebalancing and financing of the service that avoids the economic turmoil of the municipalities; reformulation of the service with the most professional and within a new global concept of attention to our seniors and dependents; training for the incorporation of the most professional into service and improvement of their working conditions; and, in the context of the pandemic, spirals and protection material for the sector. I appeal again to empathy, as yesterday, of all. With a little luck we'll get bigger and it's more likely that we need this service. Today we're talking about our biggest. Tomorrow we will be. Time passes fast, we push the SAF, we innovate, look after it, we take care of the workers and workers in the sector and, of course, our seniors and dependents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u118	Thank you, President. Good morning, good afternoon, everyone. Go forward from the BNG that we agree with the reflection that Mrs Ortega was doing now in the intervention; in fact, not long ago we also betrayed an initiative to this House which was turning to a good extent in the same idea: in the need to strengthen and, above all, improve the design and financing system of the home aid service as a fundamental part of that system of dependence and of guaranteeing the right to personal autonomy of the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks that they need it. It's also one of the services most demanded by the entire population of our country. He looks at a lot of people, more than 24,000 people in our country, and we understand that, besides -- and we'll talk about this issue from the BNG in this parliamentary session, not too long ago -- it's a key part of that care organization system that needs to rethink, or change, if we want to improve or get out better -- by saying so in some way -- of this crisis in which we're immersed. We agree in that sense, and we believe that a central element is that of the financing and contribution made by the Galician Union to this service, which, as indicated above, has been maintained for more than ten years in this contribution of EUR 9.7 and that it remains far from the actual and effective cost in the provision of the service, which varies -- it depends a little on the municipalities, as we have already mentioned on other occasions -- between the 18 and the 23 euros, according to the data provided by our country's Official Social Work College, after a very detailed study of the different or different models of provision that is currently available from the FAS in our country. We agree that the contribution of the Union must be closer to the provision of that service in reality, and must also take into account issues that are critical to the provision of the service in our country. There is a lot of talk about, for example, that access to state funds, such as population dispersion, which has an overcost in terms of providing service in a city -- because there is, for example, a cost of transporting workers themselves, home aid assistants -- it doesn't have to be assumed exclusively by the municipalities, which have to develop a huge economic effort in many cases to maintain this service in the highest quality. We also want to make some questions of the proposal made by the Socialist Party in the amendment. One is the need -- and I want to think that all forces are there -- that the Spanish state has to take on what its own law sets. I don't know how to say it anymore. The Dependency Act -- which was named here -- in 39/2006, has been setting it up for many years now for funding the entire dependency aid system, for personal autonomy, must be funded by the General Administration of the State at 50 percent. We're too far away. Never since the adoption of the law has none of the governments -- and they've passed several and different colors, both the Socialist Party and the People's Party -- have made that approach which is also forcing the Greek Government itself, the Greek Government itself, to have to assume an even greater cost to provide the set of services that revolve around that personal autonomy and from that attention to dependency. That is one of the parts that we incorporate through this amendment that we present to this initiative. We believe that if the effort and participation of the Spanish State administration were what they should be -- because so the brand, I insist, the organic law, the state law -- the situation today would also be quite different, without exempting -- I insist -- that the Galician Union must update its contribution, because the service has changed a lot, both in the profile of the people who are users of it and in the deployment of its own attention to dependent people; it cannot be, after more than ten years, in the same value as those 9.7 euros maximum. I insist that it is far, in addition, from covering what it really costs to provide the service. And another question. You were now referring to that other party, Mrs Ortega, which is to modify the participation of users in the financing of the service. We have introduced a nuance, which is that this amendment must be made about state law, because Article 33 of that Dependency Act of 2006 sets out that users must also be co-sponsors or co-financers of the provision of support services to the dependency and personal autonomy. It makes it -- moreover it sets it up -- the type of service, its cost of delivery and the personal economic capacity of the user. And this was regulated here in Galicia in the order that regulates the home help service, in Article 18, depending on IPREM, to the extent that users in our country, depending on their income and heritage, can make a co-financing, a co-financing of the service, which goes or oscillates, depending on their economic capacity, between 10 % and 65 %. We think this is important. It seems good to us that he stands up in the appropriate forum and that we debate whether all people, regardless of their income, should be completely exempted from this service in co-financing. This seems to us to be an interesting and important debate from any point of view. But we also believe that the most urgent thing now is to strengthen the administrations, both the state and the board of Galicia, the service itself. You yourself said, Mrs. Ortega, that we need to go not only to the most people attending the home help service, but to greatly improve the number of hours in which people who need it are cared for and who have recognized by the Dependent Law the right of access to the SAF. Today we're with a grade 3 person, which is the maximum that can be reached at the dependency levels set by law, can have 4 and a half hours a week at the maximum home help service. It's very little, very little, whether what we want or what we aspire to as a country is to give and guarantee the greatest shares of social welfare; and especially if we want to go to a model of long-term care that aims to spread a network of strong public services that allows us to stay as long as possible not only in our homes, but in our family surroundings, of friends, and where we have developed our life plan. More hours and also a better and more attention that goes -- as Mrs Ortega said -- also in the sense of offering more comprehensive, more professional services, that cover and care for more needs, and not just our daily lives. Let's think, as it's designed, today little more that's going to help in the morning, get out of bed, sit down, change your clothes, give you breakfast and don't come back. And one person has to face a period of time, which is not 24 hours a day -- because I want to think that most of us can or should sleep for eight hours -- but we need a much wider and much more complete attention, with the objective -- I insist -- of reaching a model of care that allows us to have the greatest rate, the greatest degree of social well-being in our homes for as long as possible. So, in that sense, our amendments go. We agreed. We have defended here since the BNG that it is necessary to review that contribution from the Galician Union, that we have to go to an approximation of that contribution, that is more appropriate to the actual cost of the service, that can't be the municipalities, with their enormous effort -- very much, and above all the rural ones, which is where the population lives, in addition to 65 years and more dependent people -- who have to assume that overcost that is being generated today. But we also believe that it is necessary to demand that the Spanish State comply with its own law, which has never done so since 2006, and then also that, in any case, if you want to review that participation or economic contribution of users, that you change the state law, which is now the one who rules it. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u120	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to ask me what you're going to do with PSdeG? Indeed, I have heard a lot of things today in this plenary which are really surprising. I'm going to start by saying that I honestly believe that the PSdeG is bringing here today to this plenary, a proposal that is improvised, unfair and even illegal. It is a measure that I sincerely believe is not seeking to solve the real problems that people have, but that it only aspires to get a press headline based on the usual demagogy of the Socialist Party of Galicia, or, better said, of the current Greek socialism, which is really surprising. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has this year 2021 the highest budget in the history of the autonomous community; it's the most social budget in the history of the autonomous community: 4.582 million for health care, 2.631 for education, 371 for [...] and 956 million -- the highest in the history of a Swedish Social Policy Council -- for social policy; 8.540 million in total. Well, 24 hours after approving the most social budget in Galicia's history, the PSdeG brings us here the proposals. The proposals for amendments to the budget? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's a surprising thing! You come here to demand that the content of the Galician Union be increased and that the trees disappear. And PSdEG amendments for the increase in the budget of the household help service budget, zero amendments, zero euros. It's just amazing, Mrs. Ortega! It's less surprising if we hear his repeated interventions; for example, that of budgets, in which he told us that the key to overcoming this crisis was to attend pensions, to attend youth, to meet the demographic challenge, to which you presented zero amendments and asked for zero euros. Yes, he also stressed that it was essential that we support the associations that were taking care of poverty and so on. And it's not like I've tabled an amendment with zero euros, it took them 250,000 euros of the aid they receive from the board! It's just amazing! And I wonder if those meetings that you have with the workers at the SAF tell them these things. No, no, I figured it wasn't, but it's amazing. [[Mrs. Ortega Otero denies with his head.]] Almost as surprising as that, well, you come today to ask the Galician Board to take on the facilitation of FFP2 masks "which have to be made easier for the workers." But are we serious? It's just a very surprising thing! You're also on the line of what's being maintained in the last rounds, i.e. by proposing -- in my opinion -- socially unfair measures. First they did it with the extraordinary SAF. You wanted to keep the service, despite the reopening of day centers. Thus, services have doubled for some users, and, like budgeting, Mrs Ortega, it is not infinite, of course, it attracts resources for others. Obviously, we do not heed that request. And now it comes and it happens that a measure that was decided upon at a time of maximum emergency -- like what we were living at that time because of the closure of day centers -- is universally attributed to the whole of the home aid service, the elimination of the poppy in this service. And I ask you, though, would you keep the support in other equally important services, without assessing the economic capacity of the user of each of the services? Why? My question is simple, because I understand that there's no logical suggestion to justify this, beyond... I don't know, to take out the tweet or the headline, the photo or whatever you want. But why should a highly economically capable SAF user be free of coke and the user with lower income, who enjoys a day center or residence, have to make the coke? Why? What is the rational logic of this? You don't have it! It's the usual socialist demagogy to criticize something when they're in opposition and practice the opposite when they're in government. They're against privatization of the home help service. I think it's nice of me, but it's just that in every county where they rule they privatize the home aid service. And, in addition, now asks the board to assume the companies' PPEs -- it's amazing!-- They criticise the privatization of day centers, but where they govern, you privatize the management of municipal and provincial day centers, among others. You claim that you do business with residences, but where you manage residences you see that they are in the hands of the very multinationals that you criticize here at the plenary session of Parliament in Galicia. By the way, they're very bad, and you're asking for improvement for the workers. Tell him -- let's see if there's any luck -- who manages the job residence if he pays the workers what he owes them. I say there, in the Deputation of Lugo, where you rule; it's good to remind you. And they come here and accuse companies of trading with the health of older people, but where they govern they hire the same companies, I suppose also to buy you, but in their own opinion, not mine, that I don't share that opinion. So the question is obvious: are you going to remove the trees where they rule? I think it's quite consistent to ask for this. If we're asked to remove the spores, I ask you: where will PSOE rule eliminate the spores? Because, of course, if the PSdEG proposal is that the home help service -- and I don't know if our country's care services set -- is universally free for all users, regardless of their economic capacity, man!, I think we can sit down to study it, but first you should answer two questions. The first was already formulated by Mrs. Rodil -- which I agree with in some of the things she said in her speech -- but is Mr. Sánchez's Government willing to pay 50% of the state's funding that establishes the Dependency Act? Because you come here today and, after what we hear in this plenary, you say, no, you invite and the municipalities pay. Look, at the plenary today, I ask you: when you have confined the entire state, in the Royal Decree of the alarm state that you approved the measures to support trade, self-government or pemes? Isn't that true? Because those measures... you're confining, but they're paying for autonomous communities. When they closed the night lodge -- which's been closed for months, precisely since that real decree -- did you guys put in some help for the nighthouse? No, put them in the autonomous communities! But we even heard Mr. Caballero say yesterday that the state highway bonus is taken from the board funds. And you come here today and say the board invites and the municipalities pay. No, no, you're invited from the state and we're the other ones we're paying every day, depending too! Because, of course, we will all have to make an effort to address the situation we are currently living in. I think we all agree on that. Look, what I think is reasonable is that we all make that joint effort, and that we all do it honestly and without lying. You can't say here what you said, because it's fake. You literally said, "The biggest cost of the SAF takes over the municipalities." And, look, justified home help service expenditure: Galician board, 67.59 %; users, 15,42 %; municipalities, 16,98 %. That's justified data, eh!, that we're not talking about hearings here. I don't know where you get the graphics from. These are justified data; payments and effective. When are you going to put 50 percent? Because in this legislation the vice president has already told us that no, which, at most, will reach 34 %. I want to see him, but they say 34 percent. The general budget of the State, in its expenditure section, grew by 20 % this year, by 19.4%. Do you know how far the State Dependency Act has gone? Six points, 26%. About 20% grew the budget; you went up 6 points. Home!, if we're going to talk about free, first pay what they owe and, if not, don't come here saying that some invite and others pay. The other question I have to ask myself is what Mrs. Rodil asked you, will you change the articulate of the Dependency Law? Because it's amazing that you're coming here to ask us something that's illegal. "Article 33. The participation of beneficiaries in the cost of benefits. The beneficiaries of the dependency benefits shall participate in the financing of them by the type and cost of the service and their personal economic capacity." I'm not telling you to review Article 12, which also talks about participation in this system of local administrations. But what's this joke? It's just that you're here pretending to be permanently under the Dependency Act. But you read it? Or is it that when they are here in the opposition they ask the Administration, particularly the Union, to take care of everything, but when they legislate, since you are in the Government, are you the one who imposes the spores? It's really a coat of hair! Mrs. Rodil here made a series of assessments. I agree with each other, but not with each other. I think the order of priorities is different, the first thing to do is extend the SAF to all those municipalities that need it and then we can talk about improving funding. And it's true that the councils have those resources right now, but not thanks to the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u122	...that would give 15 billion euros of remains to the central government, that is, in exchange for 5,000; they would give 15,000 in exchange for 5,000. No, no, the remnants are in the Town Councils, and you know there are a lot of municipalities that are saying they have a lot of trouble doing processing and getting those remnants forward. For SAF, no, and for that, they are priorities, to meet social needs. Is there any greater social need at this moment than this? No, you don't. That's why I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u124	...what I'm asking is a little serious, what I'm asking you to do is do some self-examination and what I'm asking you to do is, when you bring a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u126	...initiative here, bring a certain job behind them, let it be a little more socially fairer, and of course, I ask you not to be illegal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u128	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Ortega Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u129	Thank you, President. Mr. Pazos, I don't know if you're aware of what your own government does, but the coke has already eliminated it in the extraordinary SAF, I don't know why it can't be eliminated now. So ask, consult the Social Policy Council, and they can probably explain it to you. But let's see, if this is the social budget of the entire history of Galicia, then, Mr. Pazos, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it will be fair to assume and increase the contribution that Galicia's board makes to the SAF, right? If this is the most social budget... right? You don't want to bet on people, as you said on another occasion? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So they take the cost, they rebalance what the municipalities pay and what they pay for Galician Union. Be fair. They ask for justice from the central government, for they also ask for justice and be empathic with the smaller administrations, such as the governments of the local administrations, Mr. Pazos. Be consistent and fair. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u130	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u131	I see he lacks sincerity with citizenship, and he's talking to the Greek people. And if not, you can copy of Mariano Rajoy, who at least was sincere with citizenship and said that dependence was not viable before making his own cuts. He was sincere, he cut off completely and made a break-in indentation with the dependency, but at least he looked at people and told them the truth, not like you. [[Mrs. Ortega Otero shows news.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The lethal weapon of the People's Party's Government against the Dependency Act -- if we talk about the home aid service, we have to talk about dependency -- was title III of Royal Decree 20/2012, of July 3. Main cuts: reduction in the amount established for the economic benefit of care in the family environment. Will they reverse that? Suspension of the special convention of the social security system of non-professional caregivers, which had to reach the central government of Pedro Sánchez and reverse those cuts. And by the way, speaking of coke, this state government will also eliminate the pharmaceutical coke. So, let's apply the story, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. He's talking about reducing the contribution of the General State Administration. Which bothers them so much, tell Rajoy, tell his colleagues in the People's Party, that it was them who implemented him. Don't you realize they're criticizing their own People's Party governments? Please, it's consistent. [[Applause]] Apart from these cuts -- which, by the way, came to a minimum level that I thought would cut...--, never cut the level of money coming from the central government and transferred to the autonomous communities. They reduced the hours of home help delivery. Yes, you, the People's Party, in grades 3. They were aids that were entitled to degrees 3, which are the most dependent people -- if they don't know -- and they were entitled to 90 hours a month -- insufficient, by the way, as the representative of nationalism says -- [[Murmurs.]] But besides, they cut from 90 hours to 70 months, and that's what you did. Here began the indentation of clippings that they had made in a single legislation -- which were more -- in one legislation a cut of 2,865 million was established in dependence. And now I'm going to read a communiqué from the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services -- I don't know if you know them -- and I don't tell them, they tell you. January 19, 2021: "The Government of Spain's shock plan reverses the cuts in dependence. 623 million euros for 100,000 people on the waiting list and 25,000 new jobs. The agreed level of EUR 283 million is recovered and the minimum level in monthly accounts is increased. The cuts of the year 2012 are recovered." Who ruled in 2012 in the State? The average waiting time in Galicia is twice what marks the law, twice what marks the law! Put on the batteries and work. With 623 million euros you can delete the waiting list in eleven communities this year and reduce it considerably in the rest. Self-governments that invest under the national average must increase their own budget. Do you know who's going to address this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Galicia, the second autonomous community that least invests per inhabitant of all Spain in dependence; that is. But, look, they're talking about the contribution of the state, and even the report of directors and managers of social services makes it very clear: Galicia, 45 million. But other examples: Cantabria, 11; Canary Islands, 16; Asturias, 15; Basque Country, 4; A Rioxa, 6; Galicia, 45 million contributions to dependence. What are you going to do with these millions? Would you reverse the snippets?, expedite the timeout? What are you going to do? The state of well-being is very difficult to build, it costs a lot of effort on the part of a society. SAF is one of the services that you find in the elevator, but we must take care of it. It's no use if the conditions of users and workers are not great...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u133	...it's no use increasing hours without funding from the board. Make the SAF available a health-care provincial link to make crawlers and speed up tracks. They bring material and protection to home aid workers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is unacceptable for them to work without the necessary protection. After this crisis and the powers they had to take over the councils, because the Galician Union did not assume, it is fair that the Government of Galician Union will provide what they have to contribute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u134	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u135	...to the municipalities, which have not updated the quota for more than ten years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u136	Thank you, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u137	Be fair and do the work for citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u138	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Calm down, quiet everybody, that there's still a lot of work here. Proposal for a non-law of G.P. Popular, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Rey Varela and six other Members, on the actions of the Galician Union on the peace of Meiras and its assignment and management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u139	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u140	Mr. Puy has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u141	Thank you very much. It's a coincidence. Fortunately, the two representatives of the People's Parliamentary Group that we spoke at this hour are well endowed with reservations, but the truth is it's a rather complicated time to discuss any matter. And, in addition, this issue is under discussion. At the last plenary session, we discussed the issue of Meirás with a non-legislative proposal that brought the Nationalist Block to Galicia. In that debate, I think -- at least I always like to get something positive -- there was a general coincidence in the House, firstly, about the importance of the September 2nd judgement of the Court of First Instance last year. I think it's a judgment that, in fact, in terms of the whole debate that has to do with our history, it's historical. And secondly, I think there are also reasons for mutual satisfaction, and we also agree in the expression of gratitude to those who have fought all this time claiming the public property of the palace of Meirás. This, at least, is a positive starting point, and precisely we try, having so many things in common, to reach agreements with the Galician Nationalist Block, because basically what we wanted was to support the essential and broadest part of its initiative. It is true that the Block presented a self-amendment and, precisely, it was a point of that self-amendment which meant that we would not be left or supported by the original text in most of it, nor vote for points to include a part of the self-amendment. The fact is that, in the end, Parliament did not pronounce itself on the issue of Meirás, at least formally. So we think this would be good, especially at the moment -- we also argued it in the last debate. It would be good if we socially agreed on this in the Greek society, especially for those who are less willing to accept this situation that we share as a good recovery of the peace of Meirás. I think it's politically good because society as a whole politically has to have some points of agreement, especially when they reach their past. And in addition, I think it's strategically good thinking in legal terms. I know the judges apply justice and the Supreme will fail according to law, but it is also true that laws, as the rule itself interprets laws, must be interpreted in accordance with the meaning and reality of every time and its time. Well, we brought this up today by making our arguments that were initially in the non-law proposition of the Block precisely to try to reach a minimum agreement on what we share: First, let the peace be given to the board. I believe that, if this is needed, because the Socialist Party understands that we have to wait for the final judgment to be final, we have no obstacle to include it in the final text of the non-law motion that is put to the vote. Secondly, so that there is a joint management formula that, through the technical commission, is involved by the general government of the State, by the autonomous administration, by the deputy and by the municipality of Sada. Thirdly, they are able and compatible with the uses, without graduating -- which then makes a small mention of this -- about the figure of Pardo Bazán, creator of The Towers of Meirás and, therefore, a person bound to the good, which, precisely, by being there and being built by it, is a good of cultural interest, the normal uses of the citizenship of Sada and those of all who want to approach there, of any kind, cultural, even playful, to take advantage of the gardens and, of course, also for historical memory, with a program on the Frankist regime and the spoils of the goods by the family and the dictator, which we believe must be, moreover, permanent --anything that goes to Meirás must know what happened there, as well as about the social, political and institutional struggle for the recovery that took place in the last four decades, and that must also focus on the superiority of democratic values. In fact, in this text, we incorporated one of the additions that the PSOE was self-embossed in the last debate, because it seemed to us that it was of justice and a magnificent idea that the first act that was done publicly in the court of Meirás was a tribute to the people, memorialist entities and institutions that have played the part in the claim over the past four decades. We think it's fair, they deserve it, and I think, if they do, they'd see with good eyes that it was a tribute unanimously promoted by this House. Since then there has been a single variation in the question of some relevance. The technical commission has met again, made some decisions on access to the palace, based on the state of the palace itself, and all these issues that you probably know, either directly by members of the committee as well as by the news published in the press, and it is noteworthy that the four administrations there have decided to appoint a group of experts to determine which will or should be the uses of the court in the future. In that commission all members -- a technical group -- appointed experts. I believe that no one can discuss the intellectual category, the knowledge and the ability that all members of that commission have to determine this issue. So we added to the text that was originally presented -- which basically brought what the Block had presented at its time -- to assume that it is the experts proposed by the four administrations who should graduate the uses of spaces that from a strictly museum perspective -- that is, thinking of conveying well the message that you want to give -- logically, you have to give or even have to vary over time. I mean, anyone who knows a little bit about museums, knows that one thing can be canned, which is permanent, doesn't change and stays forever; that's to say, it's a bit of success at first, but it's forever forgotten and getting canvases. So there's a group of experts appointed by the four administrations that have to determine uses, and we with this amendment say that, being the own uses that were in the original GNP, we maintain in this, that are the experts who determine, according to the four administrations, the specific uses that are given to Meirás palace. Well, I think this is a quite reasonable point of agreement that I would give you, I insist, quite relevant to the work of experts, and, above all, we would maintain an important message for society. I've just said that there's no drawback in maintaining state ownership until the sentence is final. And with regard to the rest of the amendments, of course, there is a group of experts. The four administrations should establish which uses are, and I think that, by delimiting the four uses, they should determine the proportions, because, at the bottom, sometimes, there are debates that are defined so as to whether you hear a little bit more the bass or a little more the acute, and it's not about that, I think there are more important things than in a given moment if you hear the bass more than the acute. But that's what experts say, not us. The Block also asks us -- which is related, but it's much more ambitious -- is that we make a policy about more general historical memory. I'm going to tell you something atypical, because a spokesman usually speaks on behalf of the group: in my inner forum, I think that policy is necessary in Galicia. And I'm sure -- now I speak again as a spokesperson -- that if we take a first step in something that we are in synthesis and basically agree on the uses of the Peace of Meirás in terms of this proposal -- which is basically what the Block introduced -- will make it easier that this can also become a consensus in the near future, because a consensus on historical memory, on the superiority of democracy and on the non-present defence of the values that our democracy represents would be good for the country and would be good, above all, for the generations that happen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u142	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Puy, we welcome you celebrating the Judgment of the Court of First Instance, number one of the Crown. And with regard to their appeal to consensus, we, of course, support a consensus, but a consensus based on the claim and defense of democratic historical memory as a priority, without prejudice to their compatibility with other uses, among other things, because the democratic historical memory is central and priority in a democratic society. This is basic and fundamental, it's not a musical issue, if I understood well the allusion to bass or acute -- at best, I was saying it for something else -- and in any case, it's not a question of taste, it's a question of centrality of an absolutely fundamental issue in a democracy that seeks to claim and define itself as such. And I won't get tired of repeating it: the judicial process that led to a historical judgment that allowed the recovery -- provisional, that is -- of the peace of Meiras pushed the progressive government of Spain, not the Union, that never had the slightest political will to do it until there was a socialist government in Madrid, as much as it seemed to be praying for social pressure. I repeat and repeat: there would be no recovery of Meirás' palace without the firm political will of a progressive government that sought and searched through the State Counsel until he found, in early 2019, the notarial writing that remained hidden in the archive of notary protocols of the Crown and that dismantled the fraud framed by the dictator. Without that writing, there would be no judgment; without the political will of the progressive government of Spain, there would be no judgment. And now comes the PP asking for the transfer of the palace of Meirás by the state and saying what he wants to do with Peace. Well, we don't oppose asking the state to give up the good, even though it will have to wait for the sentence to be firm; therefore, "you see them reaping." And we do not oppose, of course, that the uses of the palace -- that can be multiple, of course -- between different administrations, as long as it is clear that the priority and central use must be the study and dissemination of the historical democratic memory, which distorts this proposal of the PP. And we're not going to see that it's about diverting what happened in the palace for decades and where everyone was in the recovery process, because that would be as much as whitening franchise, which is what they'd like for some, and in what they've been for decades -- and we doubt they're still not being, for very revisionists to put themselves -- [[Applause]] By the way, in the budgets of the Galician Union there are zero euros for the democratic historical memory. I'm looking for euros, ladies! It was the Bipartisan Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño who declared the well-declared palace of cultural interest, which was the first step to his recovery. [[Applause]] It wasn't Mr. Fraga's government, vice president of Mr. Feijóo; it was the two-party progressive government. Instead, what he did in 2011 Mr. Feijóo's Government was agreed with the Franco Foundation to open the palace for four days a month, and this allowed the Franco Foundation to make apologize for years on those visits. You've reached an agreement with the Franco Foundation to allow a lamentable endorsement of the dictatorship there for years. That's your trajectory on the issue of Meirades' palace before social pressure overflows them. And yet, by the way, I want to see the day when Mr. Feijóo goes up to this stage saying that Francisco Franco -- which he usually calls "the general" -- was a traitorist, a blood dictator and a real corrupt dictator. I want to see that day, I look forward to that day and I'd like it to be that day. Our trajectory and attitude on this subject has always been opposed to that of the People's Party; I don't say it, it's white on black on page 394 of the ruling, when it indicates that in February 1978 a proposal by the Socialist Party for restitution to its rightful owner and his conversion into the seat of the future autonomous Government is made public. That is, in February 1978, months before the Constitution itself was passed, 42 years before this sentence, 40 years before the Galician Parliament urged the recovery of the palace, the Socialist Party had already demanded the recovery of that good and even proposed that it be the seat of the future self-government, while the political leaders of the MPs and deputies were walking -- and I will be here very conciliating -- in other things. [[Applause]] On the basis of the whole above, our proposal, which we have amended, is that we prioritize the uses related to the study of democratic historical memory, something very simple that can assume any democrat, and, if I do not assume it, let me doubt his democratic heel. Many things can be done in the palace of Meirás, but always giving priority to uses related to the historical democratic memory. We have absolutely nothing against the study and the claim of Emilia Pardo Bazán, who was a great writer, in addition to a corrupt and Galician woman who set out in a world of men, but the case is that Emilia Pardo Bazán, who can have all uses and all recognition there, all the claim and the study that is needed -- because there is room for that -- already there is a museum, which is in which the writer lived, on Tabernas Street, 11 of the Coruña, sharing local with the Royal Galega Academy. And the memory of Emilia Pardo Bazán is already claimed, encouraged and protected, the difference in democratic historical memory, a concept that, if it were for you, I'm afraid would not even exist. And I say it with maximum clarity. You use Emilia Pardo Bazán's alibi to try to lower the historical democratic memory. They try to dilute the historical democratic memory, using Emilia Pardo Bazán, and they add zero euros in the budgets of the Galician Union, as I told them, to the historical democratic memory. And as much as some want to escape from that historical democratic memory and dilute it is to palmer, indisputable, insatiable, clear and meridian that the most significant history of the palace is associated with the fact that Francisco Franco was a corrupt, in addition to a dictatorist who, with his acts, caused the death of hundreds of thousands of victims in our country, the exile of so many others and the repression of so many more; a corrupt one who forced Galician citizenship, notably the corrupt region, to pay to give him the peace of Meiras and simulate legal operations to put good into his name. A corrupt man who, according to historian Angel Viñas, had already massacred a fortune equivalent to 400 million euros today on the basis of mangrove that state that he said to defend. The president of the Union assumes that the palace was opened to the public under his mandate; even if it was allowed to criticize the left for not having done so when he was in front of the board; a more evidence of his enormous cynicism, which was believed again, again, for the last time this morning, since it was the Bipartisan Government who declared the peace as good of cultural interest and what established the relevant regime of public visits. The Francos resorted to that decision, which could not be legally executed until 2011, already ruling the PP, but I reiterate that it was the Bipartisan Government who made possible the opening of the public palace through his statement as a asset of cultural interest. And Mr. Feijóo's board didn't move a finger to prevent the Francisco Franco Foundation from taking control of the public promotion of the palace, despite the fact that this foundation is dedicated to making the apology of franchise, which is precisely its social object. And the facts betray the PP's words again and again on this subject, since years ago the plenary assembly of the Crown approved a motion to urge the Board to prevent the Apologization of franchise in Meirás, and the PP abstained; and another one in which the Government of Greece was asked to join the Union for the Return of Peace, as was the Commission for the Recovery of the Historical Memory of the Crown, its own representation, the University of the Crown, and political councils and formations, and the PP again abstained, and so on. So let's not advocate by naively allowing the palace to be placed cheerfully in the hands of those who would want to make in it a theme park in which to omit and reverse the historical and democratic memory, because their historical memory is quite different from what we can have others and others. Let's not use the estimable figure of Emilia Pardo Bazán to pay less attention to the blackest episode in Spain's history, which was the dictatorship, which stopped the clock of history in this country for forty years. And I repeat, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, zero euros for historical memory in your budgets this year. And I also reiterate our willingness to, if we accept our amendment -- which, on the other hand, is perfectly logical and assuming -- go ahead with this proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u144	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mr. Puy, you did here an exercise of personality unfolding. So, the truth is I don't know if I have to debate with Mr. Puy, who I understood was willing to support our proposal that Galicia have a public policy of memory, at last, or if I have to debate with Mr. Puy spokesperson of the People's Party, who supposedly has a different position. In any case, we would like to thank you from the BNG for bringing this issue here and for, in some ways, self-amendment, because for many months we had to hear that, in a very serious health and economic crisis, as if we were to bring this kind of issue to Parliament. It seems to us that we have to debate these issues, which are very good debates for democratic health and which are both constructive and clear debates. And about this I have to tone what you said about consensus, because I think consensus is overrated. The consensus is overvalued, and really the world has not advanced by consensus, the world has advanced by conflicts; then there will have to be a dose of consensus, but also the dose of conflict, democratic and dialectical confrontation of models and postures and from there on forward, and now the debate is precisely there. This issue of Meirás has taught us a lot of things over all these years that we've been discussing here, and we've also attended a historical, exemplary process in this country, which was all the struggle for the recovery of Meirás's palace, which is still unfinished, but there was a great breakthrough, because no one could dream of 2005, when a group of people -- very few, very few -- stood in front of Meirás's palace to ask for the recovery, which we could get here. This is a demonstration of hope for all that can be achieved in this area and in all that we propose; it is the force of the mobilization of the most committed and most generous people that can have a people. And he also taught us other behaviors; he also taught us that there are opportunists, that there are balanceists, that there are "take advantage of"--or, said in a more Greek expression, "compenences"--and also that there is a lot of convert. And I wanted to quote here a sentence that Carlos Babío, one of the great protagonists of the recovery of the palace of Meirás, much more than any authority, no prosecution, no lawyer, much more than anyone, said in an interview: "They surprise the converts, who insulted to defend Meirás' return, and now the merits are earned." [[Applause]] One of the great lessons that has given us all this battle, called "the battle of Meirades," is also the importance of who fought all this time when there were not many times fires or cameras. And look, you know what they did that for? Why did they fight so long? For they fought to recover good for the public heritage and to make it into the great space of the Greek democratic memory. They fought for it, not for something else, that some now pretend to have priority. I'd like to ask you a question: when all these people were mobilized, where were you? Where were you when Carlos Babio literally left the coronary joints -- and a lot of money, by the way -- researching in archives and libraries? Where were you? Where were they, by the way, all those pardobazanists, who now sprout like mushrooms everywhere? Where were they in all those fights to recover Meirás's palace? We didn't see them anywhere! Welcome and welcome to this subject now. Look, I'm going to tell you where you were, because these debates have to be as I said, clarifiers. You in 2007, in 2005, in 2006, when all these people were manifested, they were opposed, by voice -- we have told them many times -- of their president and spokesperson, Mr. Nuñez Fexóo, to the declaration of the palace of Meirás as BIC, which was being promoted at that time by the BNG from the Council of Culture and from the Town Hall of Sada. You were opposed, because I know there was a tiquismic that if it wasn't a palace, it was a tower... in the end, ridiculous. And all this time you've done is fund the Franco family, which is the greatest indecency you can talk about in this matter all this time. 44.200 euros of public funds from the Galician Board for the Franco family to open the Meirás palace in the years 2011 and 2012, which had to be done by law, when, at the same time, they were literally annihilated all public policies, because there were already, Mr. Puy, public memory policies in Galicia during the years 2005 to 2009, which you rolled and you annihilated from 2009. Between the annihilation he was literally suffocating, taking away all kinds of help, the Name project and voices. While they did that -- yes, don't say it didn't -- project Names and voices survived with what they had in their pocket, with millions of euros with which it was funded by the Greek Government, of which I was part. And you've closed her billboard since 2009. You know why? By sectarianism, by sectarianism! But the project survived a few years thanks to a grant from the Deputy of Lugo, where BNG was, and disappeared, closed the doors in 2013. [[Murmurs.]] That is, while you were giving the Franco family 21,000 euros in 2012, they were closing the Name and Voice project. This is your contribution to this question for a long time, and you must say so, Mr. Puy. You see, you with this LNP, in addition to a parliamentary filibuster exercise -- which is what you do here by bringing a proposal from the BNG also conveniently modified hissinally, because you have some changes that are not secondary -- what they do is an appeal to political unity and consensus as a fortress with which this theme of this parliamentary debate should emerge. But you get confused in a matter, and it's just that we're no longer at that moment of debate; as you said, we're already at another time. But, in addition, this initiative has only one justification, which is that you have failed in this attempt to impose your version and your vision of what Meirades should be, which is this project, which has been defeated mostly in all the debates that have been held, including that of the commission created for the purpose. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] So, you had to spare yourself from this pardobazanist proposal, which was not a proposal to exalt the figure of Parzo Bazán, because if you wanted to exalt the figure of Pardo Bazán, they had for a long time had the museum house -- which they never cared about -- and they also had their government program of the year 2020 to put Pardo Bazán. And Pardo Bazán shines by his absence in his government program, as he shines by his absence You will; the word Meirás does not appear in his government program, nor, of course, does the historical memory appear. Because you are anti-memorial, you use Pardo Bazán and feminism, indeed, as an anti-memorial, as a way of eliminating, trying to decrease, as they did, in addition -- as we told you in the previous debate -- with San Simón. So at this point in the debate, when it is clear what the management model is going to be, because it has been approved here in addition -- both the transfer as this shared management has already been approved in this Parliament -- the debate is now really going to happen with Meirás in case there is a final judgment. And you want to take advantage of and use this Parliament to win what you're losing in public debate and what you're losing also in the debates there is in that commission, because most of the institutions -- and seeing that the Committee on Expert Persons says -- are why Meirá has a central use dedicated to historical memory, which you don't want, and you've been trying to boycott with that perverse operation of suddenly turning Pardo Bazán into the great historical figure of Galicia, into the great figure of Greek feminism and the great anti-memory figure. I mean, they're using Parliament and using Pardo Bazán, too, because they never cared. And, at this point, what we mean is that it doesn't contain with us for any anti-memorial operation. BNG and most of the institutions, collectives and people who have been protagonists of the struggle for the recovery of the Meirás palace want Meirás to have as its central use the historical democratic memory. The problem you have is that you betray the subconscious; you have an unresolved problem, which is the problem of history, the problem of the past. They have many ties there, they have an uncomfortable past behind them to break, and above all they have to repair all the evil that has been done, they have to help repair all the evil that has been done, and this is not done with a rhetorical condemnation of franchiseism, that is done by developing public policies of Greek democratic memory, anti-fascist and anti-frankist -- as we propose in our amendment -- ; it is done by exercising the right to truth, justice and reparation, as international law commands us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u146	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u147	Thank you very much, President. Before answering, a little detail, Mr. Bará, because I had something to do with it. The Voces project and names had a biannual contract, which you signed for two years -- 2008 and 2009 -- with the Galician Union. That's what we met when we got to the government. You will remember that in 2009 Junta suddenly found that it had to return 2,100 million less euros, and also that there were 700 million euros that didn't pay for health, education, or all this -- thanks for respecting me, as I respected you; I thank you -- [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] That year -- 2009 -- fully paid for the Voces and Names project. So don't say we laminate things we haven't done. We kept it at a very complicated financial point, and I'm just saying it as information, Mr Bará. Mr. Aranguena, it is very good that I have a great interest in centralizing the democratic memory, but what would be good is that I had at least a little recent memory. The State lawyer acknowledged the importance of the report drawn up by this House on the initiative of the People's Group to bring the demand forward. You still want to hang up all the medals... well, fine, do it! but at least I respect the facts. I mean, this House approved a commission that made a report that the state's own lawyer said it was the basis for a winning claim. [[Applause]] And since we're talking about the subconscious betraying: one thing is asking for the management and transfer of Meirades and the other thing is not to oppose it to the management of Meirades. And I'm not going to say any more because, precisely, what this is about is who paid the palace, who was the people of Galicia, recovered the palace. You say: don't object; well, we ask. He's also talking about the trajectory -- he's been saying it several times -- I am very glad to say that in 1978 the PSOE -- which ruled from 1982 to 1996, from 2005 to 2011, and has now been ruling for two years -- had asked Meirás to be the seat of the Union. Well, well, that, of course, gives you legitimacy -- after every year in the government without doing anything -- also very big. But you insist and continue with that question. [[Applause]] What I'm asking you is that you don't doubt our democratic heel, because that's all we've shown. I, for my part, every time I doubt less of his heel, don't have the slightest doubt. [[Laughter]] Of course, we're not anti-memory; we're against using memory to create false divisions where they don't exist. And the trajectory of this own LNP since the previous plenary session demonstrates this, which is exactly what you just demonstrated today. You are not about to seek consensus; you are about to use everything that sounds the possible element of confrontation against the People's Party to confront the People's Party. It seems that consensus is not possible. And it's gonna be funny to see that the block is going to vote against -- so it's announced -- the same thing they asked us to vote four days ago. Well, well, what are we going to do with it? And of course we evolved. Just like the PSOE used to ask it to be the seat of the board, because we understand that we now have to give it a use that we didn't even determine. You say they're winning. Well, look, if I'm offering you to be those where you say you're going to win those who decide to use the palace... but that doesn't even seem right to you. There are changes, on the other hand -- after being in the debate of the successor pacts, where for the first time the Socialist Party does not defend Galician civil law -- which are regrettable. Mr Bará said one thing that ratifies everything I'm saying: it's against consensus. He says that if it gets better, it progresses further, without consensus. Well, this is not what Mrs. Pontón was asking this morning, of course, when she was talking to the president, but, in any case, we put it a little bit in historical dimension. The consensual American Constitution -- consensused and accepted by the entire American people for 200 years -- made one of the most powerful democratic, economic and social powers in the world. We've seen what happens the other day when there's confrontation, instead of consensus about institutions. Well, that's exactly what you're playing against, where there can be consensus. Perhaps in time you can see who in this House, in these debates, has sought to reach out and seek consensus and who has used precisely these positions to seek confrontation. We are, of course, going to vote in favour of this LNP, logically, since the conviction of the superiority of democratic values and consensus on any other matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u148	Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u149	Now that we're done with the debates of the non-legislative proposals, we start the votes. First of all, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández. We vote. Voting of the G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the investment of the Galician board in R+D+i and the working conditions of the investigator's staff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u150	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera and three other Members, on the establishment by the German Government of direct aid to the self-employed sector and pemes linked directly to the hospitality sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u151	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Iria Carreira Pazos. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the increase in mortality and morbidity in Galicia since the beginning of the pandemic of coward-19. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u152	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of the Proposal for a Non-Law of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to financial autonomy and regulatory capacity in tax matters of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u153	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega Otero. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the arrival of the autonomous administration to the aid service in the ordinary home, as well as the cohabitation of users. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u154	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group are not accepted. Of course, the People's Parliamentary Group's self-amendment is accepted. We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Rey Varela and six other Members, on the actions of the Galician Council on the peace of Meirás and its assignment and management. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u155	Now I'm going to read an institutional statement that brings me to the groups -- which have reached an agreement -- about the annual commemoration day in memory of the victims of the Holocaust, which says: "On November 1, 2005, the United Nations General Assembly, in its plenary session, reaffirmed that the Holocaust, which resulted in one third of the Jewish people and countless members of other minorities being killed, will always be a warning to the whole world of the dangers of hatred, fanaticism, racism and prejudice. And he also decided to designate January 27, in memory of the liberation by the allied Soviet troops of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Extermination Camp on January 27, 1945, as the International Day of Annual Commemoration in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, all of them victims of Nazism, among whom are also Welsh and Welsh. The Holocaust is the result of a program of persecution, imprisonment and extermination carried out by Nazism, which killed more than six million people. It was its origin in the attempt to eliminate political dissidents, ideologicals, and derives from a genocide that resulted in the collaboration of the Frankish dictatorship and which pursued thousands of men and women who fled the Spanish state after the defeat of the Republic in 1939 and after the establishment of a fascist regime. In particular, this Parliament would like to remind the more than ten thousand Spanish Republicans who ended up being deported to the Nazi camps by the collaboration of dictator Francisco Franco with German Nazism and Italian fascism. According to some historical sources, about 200 of them were natives of Galicia and died there or were released, but they could never return, because the Frankish dictatorship, which had previously withdrawn their nationality, denied them the right to return to their country of origin. For all this, the Galician Parliament echoes the statement by the General Assembly of the United Nations in which it rejected any denial, either partial or total, of the Holocaust as a historical fact. And he condemned unreservedly -- condemning this Parliament as its own -- all manifestations of religious intolerance, incitement, harassment or violence against people or communities based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, and taking place wherever they are. Call together to work against possible outbreaks of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and other discrimination based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, and citizens and their organizations to remain vigilant so that no more a regime like what the Holocaust has produced can sit between us or anywhere in the world." Santiago de Compostela, January 27th this year. [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much for your attention. Now we continue with the agenda; in this case, interpelerations. Da Maria do Carme González Iglesias and two other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the impact of the coward 19 on the hospitality sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u156	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Daniel Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u157	President. The reason for this inquiry is that the Joint Report on the Policy of the Government of Greece on the impact of the Covid-19 on the hospitality sector. It should be remembered that we are talking about a sector which directly employs over 60,000 Welsh and which has an impact on the creation of thousands of indirect jobs through sectors such as food, beverages, distribution and wholesalers. A sector which assumes nothing more than 20% of the German gross domestic product, and today has lost 11,000 direct jobs, according to the estimates of the industry's own associations. The unemployment figures for December are bad because it has increased in absolute terms by 14,69 % compared to 2019, the figure of unemployed people who are higher in Galicia by the end of the year since 2016. And unemployment, by sectors, where it grew, precisely, in the service sector, in which the hostel is covered: 18,302 more unemployed in Galicia until the year was closed with a total of 131.281. The situation in the hospitality sector, in the autonomous sector and in the sector is critical, and the big problem is that this situation, absolutely desperate, has been dragging it from the first months of the pandemic, in which health measures have been taken by the state and after the Union, restricting the host activity. How did the hosts find themselves with the limitations of activity adopted to try to control the pandemic? With which neither the State nor the Union have articulated some direct aid to compensate for the current expenses that have continued to arise despite having totally or partially restricted their activity. And it is not for us or the sector, that the Board is trying to justify that lack of direct assistance so that it can continue to pay rents, receipts and maintenance expenses, which continue to fall month by month, using which no aid has been linked from the state. If the State has not done so, it is wrong, but if it has not done so to the Union, which is due to all the Greeks and the Greeks, even worse. Above all, when almost all of the self-governments already go through the third round of direct aid, and the board took more than nine months to articulate the first ones. That is to say, from March to November the Union has given up its commitment to the sectors concerned and, in particular, to the host sector. That's the only and irrefutable reading. This led the sector to a limited situation, since the April culture and tourism rescue plan did not contain a single line of direct aid for these current expenses. Other open lines from Junta, such as funding for the installation of terraces in November, were a failure. And I say it again, it was a failure, but I'm going to tone it because I think I've explained myself or didn't understand myself before. They have been a failure in terms of immediate business performance; because these measures would fall short for, for example, Tenerife, but not for Galicia, for climate and because many businesses do not have the possibility of mounting terraces. Just like the soft lines of credit didn't work because they assumed, precisely, an indebtedness when the future of the sector is so uncertain. And also in November, he launched a so-called rescue plan to Junta which was not such for its endowment. You help those who can only be defined as patches, which did not closely compensate for the lack or drastic decrease in billing due precisely to the health closures, during which the current costs continued to be claimed. And the requirements for access to these aids have prevented most of the sector from accessing them. And now, at this point, they are negotiating with the sector when, in relation to these new aids, precisely because of the pressure of the sector, they are talking about simplifying the demands. But the problem is that for over 2,000 businesses in Galicia it's already late. For many businesses, as we said, these aid in November came late and the worst thing is that the unemployment data itself, which in December in the service sector gave some terrible data -- 18,302 more stopped -- show the ineffectiveness of the measures taken for the sector, which still continues to be mobilized today. Because the problem that the sector is drowning is precisely the lack of liquidity, not only to keep its businesses fleeting, but even to be able to carry some money to our homes to keep the family. And I'm going over there, the problem is not only liquidity, but also solvency. The bank is tightening credit concessions because the businesses in the current situation are no longer an endorsement in most cases, and the situation in the sector is dramatic. And after all these joint aids, including those of November, the sector still considers them insufficient. And in this context, just a week ago, the BNG Parliamentary Group has reached unanimous support from the groups, including the PP, to an initiative in which the Board was urged to put in place an extraordinary, urgent and immediate plan of direct aid, compatible with any other aid that could come to other administrations. After registering the BNG that initiative, a couple of days before the commission, which was January 20, the Board announced in the press that they were negotiating with the sector the creation of a cooperation fund to channel future aid, in which the Board would provide at least 50 million; at that time that was what was said. Starting from this, Junta would put 50 % of the total amount of aid; the deputies, 30 %, and the municipalities, 20 %, what is known as the Valencian model. And I insist, as I've done in my morning intervention: from the BNG we consider it's time for all the administrations to reach their shoulders, and that's why at the meetings with the sector, which we also keep them, we show you our complete willingness to reach an agreement. We agree that the municipalities and the deputies will work together on a three-track plan of assistance with the Union, which is very clear. But, of course, I believe that everyone understands that the budgetary effort of each administration must be the same according to its budget, and that this agreement must necessarily be negotiated. And it's worth remembering that the Union has a budget of 11,600 million; the deputies, together, 450 million; and the municipalities, together, 1.2 billion. And that cooperation fund has to be negotiated, as I said, because the joint proposal launched in the media assumes that since June an attempt is made to force an agreement which seriously compromises the budget of the deputies and the councils for this year 2021. And when we talk about equalizing the budget effort, we mean that each administration contributes the same percentage of its budget. If the Union commits to this end 1% of its budget, the different municipalities and Members would contribute the same percentage of its budget. That of proportionality, given the budget, would indeed be a fair and balanced approach, assumed by all the administrations involved, which would be rejected, precisely, by that principle of proportionality. And with this approach, the sector could count on a cooperation fund with a minimum of 165 million, after the morning statement by the President of the Board increasing the amount that the Board was willing to provide from 50 million to 75 million. This would be -- these 165 million -- a genuine rescue plan, which is what the sector demands, expandable, in addition, if the circumstances and the evolution of the pandemic required it. In other words, if health restrictions had affected activity in whole or in part, that fund would be extended. Of this 140 or 165 million plan for help between the board, councils and deputies, this is what we're talking about, and that's what we're going to negotiate. I understand you're either negotiating right now or you're going to negotiate this afternoon. The budgetary effort of administrations should be governed by this principle of proportionality, the contribution of each administration should be proportional to the budget of each administration. I believe that this is a fair approach, which would also benefit the sector, and this is really important. But Junta insists, at least until now, in that 50-30-20 distribution, in the Valencian model, that we continue to say that it is not extrapolable in the strict sense. The president of the board talked about two days ago that they had 50 -- now it looks like 25 more -- would be 75 -- for that fund. And that regardless of what other administrations do, the Union will continue to make money. The untransparent position of the Board as to increasing its contribution to that rescue plan, justified in previous aid, manifestly insufficient until now, according to the sector itself, is not supported for a number of reasons. The main thing is that the extreme situation in the sector needs a real rescue, the articulated aid so far has been insufficient, and to show is the mobilization of the sector in the street. Nor is this anointing of the Union supported by the clear will expressed by the other administrations, particularly the municipalities -- through the Fegamp -- and the deputies, to join that rescue. And the administration that has a more expansive budget in history is Galician Union. And, above all, by a simple question of quantities. With the proposal from the Members of Parliament and from the Fegamp, the rescue plan for the sector would reach at least EUR 165 million, compared with the 75 which the Union is prepared to make, whether or not it agrees. I, if I'm a hoster -- and that's what I'm a pure letter -- and they give me a choice between a help of 75 million and a rescue plan of at least 165, I wouldn't have any doubt. All the political parties in the House agreed to urge the board to put in place a plan of direct, extraordinary and urgent aid for the inn. It is already done, but above all it is published in the DOG, because the problem is immediateness and the situation of drowning in the sector at the moment. They do not disappoint the possibility that this cooperation fund will materialize to channel future aid through a mix of political protagonists, economic racism or partisan strategy. All praise and all glory for you, but please accept this proposal from the Fegamp and from the Members or, at least, agree and reach an agreement, because those who can breathe will be the autonomous and pemens in the hospitality sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u158	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Pérez López said, at the beginning of his intervention in this appeal, that he would like the Government of Galicia to inform him of the management he is doing and the help he is providing to the inn and, I suppose, in general, to all sectors especially punished by the health circumstances of this pandemic. Well, this morning, indeed, I was present, we talked about this subject and you were also, intervened on behalf of your group. I hope this questioning isn't like in the morning. What the PNL presented, which was a representative of the Socialist Group, was a demonstration -- and I'm glad that I'm present -- of, if I may, at least call it uncut, otherwise, to prove that he was lying to everything he said. He said no help was given to the inn, everything he was telling Junta was a lie. I quoted, without his knowledge, a fellow Member, a fellow Member of his and also my colleague of the People's Group. He quoted it by name and said he was asking if it was true that Junta paid for help, because it was a lie. Well, I asked him, and you know what he said? That took her on December 29th, and not him, his son, he wasn't even referring to him. Therefore, Mr. Rivera, if all they tell is so, the best thing is to stop talking. At least you understand things well before you name people and tell those lies. [[Applause]] Because, of course, if we start this way, as much as I say, it'll be the same. It's so easy to say, "That's a lie," every time we give a digit, which is true, and said the president of the Galician board, data from General Intervention of the Board, data from paid help... of course, the easy resource is to say here quietly: "It's a lie." Without talking to anyone, without checking, what else! But this doesn't help anyone. Of course, it doesn't help those who are waiting for these aids and those who are receiving them. So I'm wondering, on behalf of the Galician board, what we're doing, Mr. Pérez López, and I want to comment on it -- and I also appreciate the opportunity to do so -- that the first plan is closed. You presented this inquiry on November 3rd. I guess the fact of presenting it on November 3rd and not putting it in full till it's finished January, didn't answer that you guys did it by chance and thought that these three months nothing happened at all and therefore there was no need to worry. And when the subject had once again worried them or put themselves in the media light again, or the lodgers had protested a lot, because you'd be there again and put it in the full. In the meantime, for three months, with cross arms. It's less bad that we didn't do the same thing, and since when you presented this inquiry and put it in the Register of Parliament and then completely forgotten, because it wasn't a subject that deserved too much attention until today, we got to work; you register an interpellation, that's your job, and we talk to the lodgers, often listening to a lot of hard things, because it's a collective that is certainly not going well. Health measures affect them very directly, they hit them, they don't let them work, they have a drop of brutal income, and therefore they want administrations to help them, and we're trying to help them. And we thought it was worth working and working fast. We met many times, as I have already told you, and we discussed, we agreed, we reached agreements and we referred to a plan of 86 million euros, which was convened in November. The aid was called at the end of November. And today they are paid in their practical entirety, Mr. Pérez López. Between December and January, many thousands of aid was paid to many entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, self-employed people, pemes, ultimately, lots of people who needed them because they couldn't work or were working much under their real possibilities if there were no health restrictions. I'm glad these days had passed from denying the plan, absolutely -- this morning they did it again, being absolutely evident, at least Mr. Rivera -- and they just said that there was no plan to say -- I heard today -- that it was insufficient, that it wasn't enough. We totally agree. That's why we wanted to hear the hosts themselves, who told us, "See if we are able to convince the administrations above all, especially Members, not all, it's true, but the Deputy of Pontevedra and the Deputy of Lugo, who haven't put a dog up to date, not a single euro of direct help." And one host asked him the other day at the meeting directly, and he was unable to the representative of the Pontevedra Parliament to say, "Yes, indeed." Well, it's just as bad as he didn't tell a lie at that time, and he recognized that he didn't put a euro of direct help, today, still, to no hostel in Pontevedra province. See if we're capable now, that's what this plan is about. That's what this attempt is to bring together all the administrations. Because as much as I put together as Galician Union, it won't be enough, they need very important amounts. That's why we made this first effort of 36 million euros and that's why we made another effort of more than 75 million euros. And now I'll talk, even though the negotiation is going to be immediately after this interpellation, I'll talk about what it wants to be the Union's position, which in the end is the position of trying to help. You spoke on behalf of all the councils of Galicia, surprising, by the way!, you know what all the municipalities will do, I am glad!, because the other day the president of the Fegamp was unable to tell us nothing of what the position of the municipalities is. I hope he comes with more concrete today, because it's necessary to pull forward. You tell me the Town Councils are willing to bring a quantity, perfect! but if that's what we want. Tell me, too, that Members come with the best will to negotiate. They've changed since Monday, but I hope so. We've already said that we have an amount to put on. We've already said we want to start as soon as possible. They don't realize that while we're arguing, people who are waiting for help are also waiting for us to agree because they want the greatest amount; and it's logical, but they also want to have them as soon as possible; and they're not worth any discussion or more meetings. We're going to have a meeting today because we were asked on Monday two days to reflect, to see how much Members could put, to see if they could get to the most amount they initially offered, I hope so. May we all be able to agree and arbitrate a quick plan. Together you know how to do it. In less than two months there's the payouts and that's what we want to do now. So, as you asked me, what have you done to the Council of Galicia until now? what have the help paid? I'm going to give you right now -- because I think that's what I have to do in this interview, at least in this first intervention -- a summary of what we've done. To make it clear and there's no doubt about it, Mr. Rivera. I'm telling you not to kick again. You mentioned today to one Member, in particular, denying that they received help. So now you'll have to understand that I have to tell you that you can't say such things, you can't deny... of course, it's easy to say "I'm not now in the debate," when in the morning you put a partner to tell a lie, Mr. Rivera. Parliamentary loyalty also means not to say certain things when they are not true. And now you'll have to listen to this. You'll have to listen to this. [[Applause]] And, therefore, a rescue plan with three lines of help: 86 million euros. It was successful in meeting this rescue plan, the 100 percent of the requests that met the requirements: 34,000 applications met. The aid has already reached 90 % of the beneficiaries who met the requirements. At the hostel, 24,000 applications paid to more than 21,000 in less than two months, I insist. 40 million euros, 68% of Galician hosts got some direct help; directly, that's what they're asking for from Galician board in less than two months. In addition to the specific support to the hostel, the minimum aid a hoster received was, as we said from the beginning, EUR 1,500. That's what you didn't notice. 35 percent of the hosts who had to close, in addition, had access to the aid to which they were entitled, as will be in this second plan. That is, if you've been closed for a month, for example, you've received amounts of between 2,700 and 3,500 euros, 35% of the lodgers in less than two months. Twenty-five percent of the hosts also got help because they were microenterprises of less than 10 workers. Therefore, 5,500, between 5,500 and 6,500 euros. And 20% -- almost --, 18% benefited from the three lines. I mean, up to 9,000 euros. Would you like more specific examples? -- Vigo Town Hall: 2,163 hints, more than 4 million euros. -- Pontevedra Town Hall: nearly 1,000 aids, more than 1.5 million euros. And I say this by quoting two municipalities where, contrary to what Mr. Pérez López tells me -- I hope they now changed their opinion -- today they haven't received a single euro, in direct help from the municipalities, the lodgers of Pontevedra or Vigo. -- Lugo Town Hall: 1,000 aids, more than 1.5 million euros. Do you know what they received from the Deputies of Pontevedra and Lugo today? Nothing at all. In front of these figures, I'd like to be competing with Members who have put so much so that the Union has to put even more; and we put as much as we can put, because we have to go between all of them and get to the tops of history. Besides, it's okay to say... tell you that there are autonomous communities that already go through the third round of direct aid. Hey, I'm telling you to come here and tell me which one! Because I'm talking to my colleagues, I'm talking to the autonomous communities, and we're the second autonomous community that, today, has paid direct help, they're already paid. You tell me all the autonomous communities are on their third turn. Tell me which one, because I'll call them tomorrow and tell them you're wrong when I call them and they tell me they're still designing the first plan of help. And it's so easy to get here and talk in general, with no specific data, thinking that no one will contrast them, and this will leave it to the public, that that leaves us very far away from a rigorous debate, which is what the lodgers ask! So I leave here, in this first intervention, and finish now, Mr. President, the balance sheet of the first aid plan of the Galician Union: -- Province of Pontevedra: 7,622 grants, €13,982,000, paid! -- Province of Coruña: 7,685 grants, 14,811,000 euros, paid! -- Province of Lugo: 2,083 grants, 4,297,450 euros, paid! -- And province of Ourense: 2,315 aids granted 5,150,075 euros, paid! These are the things that must be done. This I hope to discuss with Members today, and all the rest is to come here to tell you anything, to think that everything has to do with others and not demand anything from whom you can demand it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u160	Thank you, Vice President. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the stage]] Replica Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u161	Thank you. President. Mr. Wheel, by punctuation, I never said that the Board did not articulate a line of direct aids. I just said, and I repeat it again, that they did it nine months after the onset of the pandemic. During that time there have been current spending on all these businesses in the sector that have been restricted or totally limited to their activity, and that is beyond doubt. In any case, he also said we didn't deserve attention until today. Since the first time I have been, since we started this parliamentary period, we have held at least four or five meetings with different sectors and associations of the hostel. And I'm surprised you tell me that. Because if you're meeting with the sector, with the associations, those same associations were also meeting with us. And at that moment they knew it was like that. Either you didn't ask them, or you just come here and let go of that mouth the first one that comes your head. Don't question our parliamentary work, don't put it! [[Applause]] With regard to the direct assistance of other communities, raise the phone; do so, because if he didn't, wrong done. Because that's also your responsibility. Secondly, do you know that the sector talks to us at different meetings until now? It tells us of improvisation and lack of planning, of discouragement in the sector, of resistance on the part of the sector, that Christmas was bad for them, of losses in 2020 that could reach 80%, and that set their hopes for the summer. But, of course, from here to summer it's been a long time. And you know what they're asking for? Right away. If from the Government of Mr Feijóo decrees a closure of a sector, whether covered or not -- covered was the previous one and with these measures it's already explicit -- what you have to do automatically, when this activity limitation comes out in the DOG, it's to publish help to compensate for that closure; because the situation in the sector is desperate. If you went to the Tourism Cluster, do you also know what we're talking about at the meetings we're holding in the sector? Without leadership, and the need for the Union to exercise that leadership, which it hasn't done in more than nine months. Because if it was the Cluster of Tourism and not the Union, what called a meeting of public administrations to talk about a coordinated proposal and a response to an economic crisis of such magnitude as we have, a lot of leadership on the part of the Union is not being shown. Above all, when a deputy, such as that of the Coruña, from April 4, by letter and then many times, requested coordination on the part of the Union and expressed his collaborative predisposition without any encouragement from any protagonist. For the sake of the sector, they should reconsider their proposal of 75 million in solitary, because what the sector needs is a rescue and not lines of help like the ones they've brought out so far -- the ones of the DOG, not the others --. What we agree with is that the management of that single fund must be agile and rapid, with a clear and transparent approach, that it is driven by institutional loyalty and that it should enhance the effort of all the governments that collaborate. And for that, a work table would be needed. And I think it's understandable that almost everyone does not accept the proposal of the Valencian model, because the administrations involved did not have enough time to analyze and discuss it. I think it's something clear. They've been negotiating this model since June in Valencia. Have you been negotiating this with the deputies and the municipalities since June? No, no, no, no. They didn't raise the phone for anything. It must be understood that the economic reality of the sector, in this case of the sector in Valencia, has nothing to do with us, but these are already different issues. The formula of proportionality, in any case, we consider it to be the fairest, as it refers to absolute amounts. In the Valencian model, there was talk of 50-30-20, but, of course, it has already been nuanced and now what is in force is no longer that. Today, the Council announced a fund of 340 million called Resistance, from which Generalitat is worth 280 million euros. Let's see, we have to understand that the Galician Union has budgetary capacity to reach more than 75 million -- if at the end of the day these 25 million euros are more materialized to contribute to that single fund -- because what the sector needs is a rescue rather than help lines. And of course it must bring more, let's say, when there are splits in the budget, as might be the one in Jacob's, which is 112 million for the year 2021. And seeing the foreseeable situation of the evolution of the pandemic, which at the very best of the scenarios, the situation will not be normalized until the summer -- I wish it would be before --, to dedicate 112 million of Jacob's that should be executed in a few months, it seems almost offensive to many sectors that are going through very bad. So don't say that the Union has no capacity to give another direction to budgets. Finally, to reproduce the words of the President of the Union regarding the fund of cooperation for hospitality and other self-employed people: "It is up to us to assume responsibilities and we will not make them conditional upon other administrations also responding to the requests of the section.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh If I had this position for the nine months when the sector was without direct aids, another branch would sing. No matter how far back from the state, no help has come. That would have been responsible and worked as a real president of the Galician Union in defense of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u162	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the appeal, Mr. Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pérez López, I know that the BNG doesn't like anything about Xacobeo; they've already told me in my audience -- when it was budgeting -- and for you could disappear from the budgets, there could not be Jacobo, but, look, the games we're doing these six months -- because, man, we're a little smart, and we know that we're not going to be able to do things -- they're gonna be able to condition the roads, and we've got everything ready for when the Jacobbeo can be normal. So, we professionals are asking us to do this and, as much as you do, there's going to be Jacob in Galicia and it's going to be an opportunity for Galicia, as much as they don't like anything. [[Applause]] Look, I know you're meeting the lodgers -- of course they tell me! - And you know what they tell me? That they tell you the same thing that they ask us: "Help us!"and take it to them from the beginning. And save the Coruña Deputy -- which I recognize has already referred to help -- and the Ourense Deputy, the other two, and many of the municipalities that you rule, look to the other side, and tell them that this is the matter of the Board: "No! The Union is the one who makes the decisions, the Union is the one who has to help, that is, the one who has the powers." They tell them the role of the competitions, they get profiled, they go away and they're left with a palm of noses. They also talk to us later and tell us: that you are not willing to help them, and that everything derives from them to the Council of Galicia, which says it's the one who has the responsibility. You don't have to make any sacrifices, you don't have to make any effort, and this is a sector that's very good to put on others, but not to help him. I hope this is over; I hope we realize that this way you can't go on. I mean, all the help that's given right now to the hospitality sector, to the pemes, to the self-employed, to trade... is going to be little and so we're going to try to do it. It wasn't, by the way, able to tell me... he told me to turn off the phone. I took it off, and I said, "Tell me here that autonomous communities have given more help than Galicia." He wasn't able to say or say the first; they're all, but he wasn't able to expressly name none. What a coincidence! Why? Because it's not, because we're right now... after the Basque Country... it's the second community -- and look at the difference in one's farm and another -- that's helping, and if you let me tell you, you've already helped -- because the others are still designing plans -- their host sector and their micropemes and autonomous sector, because that's what we have to do. [[Murmurs.]] He was telling me that the Valencia Plan has changed. Yes, yes!, it has been published since yesterday -- you mustn't know -- in the Official Journal of the Valencian Community. Do you know what happened to the Valencia plan? In fact, it has assumed more of the Autonomous Community. We knew that and said the other day at the meeting that we had with the deputies that we're willing to take on that highest percentage. The Valencia plan is 160 million euros. Do you know how much Generalitat gets?: 100 million; do you know how many Members do?: 36; do you know how many municipalities put on?[ Picture Credit Line on page 2]: 24. Do you know how many Members would put on your 160 proposal?: EUR 5 million; from 32 to 5. In the end, this is about saving money at the expense of the lodgers, and we have to start saying it clearly, because it's okay. That's good! [[Applause]] Because if Deputies have capacity in one place, and they have three, making the ratios, they can't be that in one place they have a lot of capacity and they can't be that somewhere else they don't have one. And it can't be that you come to calculate the budgets of the Galician Union, saying that 1% is not taking into account either health expenditure, social expenditure, or educational expenditure, which is 70% of the costs of Galician Union. They tell us, "No, no, that's not what they're talking about!; Fix it differently, get the rest out!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And can't everyone else do that? To-day -- we've had almost a year of pandemic --, the Pontevedra Town Hall, the Pontevedra Deputy and the Lugo Deputy -- weren't you able to say, "This game -- even though it was 100, 200, 300 euros, 1,000, 5,000 -- is available to help the lodgers directly?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh It seems that it is impossible, that there is nothing, that it is one thing only from the Council of Galicia, that you can't help them; and indeed you can help them. We just did: 86 million euros, plus 75 now: 1.4%. If you want to talk about percentages! It's just that we're comfortable talking about investment percentages. We've already taken 1.4%. You laugh, Mr Bará, but in Pontevedra zero direct aids and they are not even lowered by municipal taxes. Nothing at all! [[Applause]] That's what the lodgers know perfectly well. And, of course, when they're going to talk to you, it's a laugh to say, "No, this is none of our business! We can't rule out income, because we need to fight the pandemic. Not like the Galician Union, which seems not to be fighting the pandemic and therefore is obliged to help, help and help." Yeah, we're bound to, and we're going to do it: 86, plus 75 million; all in just two months. See what happens this afternoon, to see what provision they come from, to see if there are no MEPs of 180 million euros of budget that say they're willing to contribute 1 million, 1.5 million and they can't do anything else, at best. That's always when the Union makes a lot of millions of euros. Let's see if we're serious. Let's see if we realize, as they did in Valencia, that this is an effort of all of us and that we have to do it. In any case, if not, the board will. Junta has 75 million, plus 86 she just put on, and she wants to take it out now, and she doesn't want to waste time either, because the lodgers aren't going to waste time. And if there's no deal today, what we're going to do quickly is get our help plan out and help whoever needs it. And you're still doing money politics, people who don't pay, and you see people who're going through it, and you blame others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u164	Thank you, Mr. Rueda. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Interpellation of Da Oolaia Rodil Fernández and two other members of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, on members, plans and treatment of residences, homes and day centres in relation to the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u165	To formulate this question, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u166	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today, since the BNG, we have brought this interpellation, as on other occasions, to talk about life, to talk about care, and also, as we said in this plenary session yesterday, about social well-being and collective well-being, which is also about demographic impulse. We do this on the basis of the establishment of the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee. I think they also had a meeting today -- it's going to be an accident. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] [[Laughter]] Okay, sorry. Okay, nothing, it's okay --... I'm saying that we do this to the board of the Sociosanitary Advisory Committee that I believe, if I didn't misunderstand the interview they were doing today on Radio Gaga, that they had met today, and to the announcement by the board of Galicia as a whole, specifically from their council, that they're designing a new model of residences. And the first thing we want to ask you is, precisely, who integrates, who makes up that advisory committee, who people, who entities, and why you have not opted for that analysis and reform of the homes of older people in our country not to be addressed in the Galician Social Welfare Council, which, as you know and how you collect the Galician Social Services Act, is the higher consultative body and participation of the Greek Social Services System. So you're in charge of it, and it's composed of representatives -- we understand, also waiting to see what is the composition of that advisory committee -- by a number of entities, institutions and representatives that lets you address in its complexity, also in its broad dimension, everything that has to do with the care model. This Galego Social Welfare Council is composed of the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, business organizations, trade unions, agricultural professional organizations, social service providers, associations of social service users, the Greek universities -- which seems to us a key piece in everything that has to do with the new design of the care model -- and also, among other things, by the school or professional colleges representative of the entities and disciplines that work daily in the social services of our country. This Galego Council of Social Welfare also has the mandate, among other things, to evaluate, to plan public policies on social services and also to propose to the Government, to the Board of Galicia, lines of action and initiatives, even legislative initiatives, to promote in this matter. We believe that this would be the logical space, as provided for in our legislation, to address this issue, but -- I insist -- we asked you about that other organism. During this pandemic year -- almost a year of pandemic -- the oldest residences became one of the main outbreaks of covid-19 and concentrated, among their users and users, 40% of the people who died with coronavirus in our country. We still see, throughout the course of time, massive contagions such as those we knew, and they're still active, in the residences of Vimianzo, Carballo, Pazos de Borbonne, Sarria, Tui or Ribeira, for some examples. And we also use it to show all our support to the staff that works in these homes, and also to families and people who use them. In the BNG we have made it clear -- we have also said many times in this plenary -- that it is necessary to address another model of residences in our country; that the coward made what we didn't want to see visible and, above all, what we didn't want to talk about before the pandemic, which is the result of a privatized model, based on large centers, on absolutely insufficient personal ratios and, in addition, regulated by an order in our country of 1996 -- twenty-five years ago -- which doesn't correspond, or is far from being reached to meet the needs of the Galicia of the 21st century. Then we'll talk, in addition, about the data, why I say it's an absolutely privatized model. The consequences have also made the absence of the Administration visible, not only as a provider -- on the basis of those data that I will then give to the privatization of the sector -- but also as a maximal responsibility, regardless of the ownership model or management of these public services, the supervision of private entities that manage these residences. And from those dusts these blades. Among other things, we also want to tell you today in this plenary that we are still waiting for the records of DomusVi residences and other entities, those that are not being given access as a parliamentary group in this House. But we believe -- and that's the focus of this interpellation -- that would be a mistake that, given the current situation, the moment we find ourselves, any change over the model would be reduced, or only centered, in the homes of older people. We believe that this reform of the residence model must be addressed, but it cannot be the only service to be modified within the set of services that are intended for personal autonomy and attention to dependency. Neither residences, nor the home aid service, nor teleassistation, day centres or community social services can be conceived as pond compartments or isolated elements. I'm a whole, I'm a whole, and therefore what needs to be addressed in the face of the future requires an integral view of all of them and each one of them as a whole. In that sense, we present this inquiry in case of chance -- anticipating, or if you want to see it like this, putting the sale before the wound -- the Board was tempted to believe that just by reforming the residence model we're going to change the structural problems that drag our country into social services linked to dependence. We believe that we need to address the care model as a whole, and overcome those structural deficiencies and fears that we drag on. I was telling the beginning that we are faced with an absolutely privatized model. Recently, a study of the most complete, published by the Instituto Galego de Statística, was out of the table again to put those deficiencies on the table. First, that eight out of ten senior residential squares in our country are private. Let's imagine what the society of this country would be like if eight out of ten beds of hospitals were private. Why do we assume that model as valid for the attention of dependent people, but we don't consider it -- or do I hope it wasn't considered -- for the population set? In addition, we drag, as far as the residences of older people are concerned, a deficit of public, concerted and private squares, which place us far from the ratio recommended by the World Health Organization, which sets five squares per 100 larger than 65 recommended. And in Galicia adding all -- I insist -- both public, private and concerted squares, we don't even reach 3%. We're, of course, far from that WHO recommended ratio. And that's what it does is to shield, first, the profit and the business that private entities have that manage the vast majority of the squares in our country, but it's also serving to deny a right of the whole of the population of Galicia, which is to access in time and form this resource. Today we have a waiting list to access a public square in residences in our country that is far above that established in the current legislation, and this, among other issues -- I insist, because Galicia is the autonomous community with fewer squares with public funding per inhabitant -- is the lowest figure in the entire state, also in a report recently published by the State Association of Social Services Directorates and Authorities: 1.16 per 100 people over 65. But it's not only the larger residential squares that are scarce in our country, but also other proximity services that are fundamental, not only for the attention of dependent people, but also for the reconciliation of their families. And here we also wanted to make a lot of emphasis, from BNG, because we often see everything that has to do with personal autonomy and attention to dependence from the focus of the person who is receiving these care, because he has, in addition, rights to them. But we need to incorporate that other perspective of who looks after in the Greek homes. The vast majority of dependent people in our country are not institutionalized, not in senior homes, but in their homes. And what is the profile of the person who assumes almost entirely and exclusively the care of those people? So let's mention that wonderful report -- I've already declared myself an absolute follow-up to that report from the Galician Demographic Observatory -- which marks us and describes the profile of that caretaker: most people are members of the home and women between 45 and 64 years of age, which is known as the Sandwich Generation. Let's think, if these women one day did -- and this March 8, we're called again to a strike, not only productive but of care -- a strike of fallen arms, which would represent for life's support that unpaid work and so often none and despised by society as a whole. There's a shortage of day centers; there's also a lot to talk about -- and I'm sure -- about the home support service; and also, as I pointed out in the debate of the Demographic Impulse Law, a degree of coverage of services that must be essential to the future, such as the spread of teleassistion, which makes the practice of all people dependent on our country not have access to this resource. So what we're asking you today is in what sense the Galician Board is working on within that Sociosanitary Advisory Committee; and for us, most importantly, if you're just going to address the reform of the residence model or, as we ask from the BNG, if you're going to address the new care model with an integral and undivided vision. Because it was precisely that vision -- and with this ending -- that, from our absolutely mythical point of view, to believe that services could be conceived in an isolated way and not as a whole, which brought us here. So from now on, we believe that what must prevail is precisely that other integral vision to address as a whole what are the social rights of an important part: 25% of our country's population. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u168	Mr. President. Members and Members. Mrs. Rodil, good afternoon. We're living one of the worst moments of this pandemic. Cumulative tiredness is making mella in many Greeks and in many gales, and yet, unfortunately, efforts remain to be made. The health crisis came at a time when no country in the world was ready and with aggressiveness that only gives a truce. Today, about a year later, we are aware that what we have ahead is a double challenge. The first of them is immediate: to respond to the needs that arise from this pandemic, both directly derived from it and those that exist, and this situation of health pandemic has made them worse. The second challenge is long-term: learning from living and extracting lessons that help us strengthen and adapt our social services. Major residences are undoubtedly the ones who have suffered, and are still suffering, with more virulence the consequences of this pandemic. That's why -- and it wasn't so everywhere -- here in Galicia were the first to receive the vaccine, both residents and workers, along with the health staff, whom I want, once again, to thank you for your efforts to make possible the care of older people at moments as difficult as these. So one of the fundamental lines of the Social Policy Council for this legislation is also to work on that new model of providing the best socio-health care. And as we said from the very first moment, this model embraces not only the residential centers, but also all those centers that help our older people and people with disabilities every day to continue living independently in their homes as well as outside of them. In recent months, preserving the health of our older ones has been the priority for all of us and for each one of us; each one from its own perspective. And now it's also up to the needs of the future. In the future, if something seems clear, the integration of the social and health fields is already a reality, it's here and it's here to stay. The outstanding debt that Galicia has had for years with both sectors is coming out thanks to the creation of the Corporate Comprehensive Care Directorate, which is responsible for the social and health fields never ceases to look in the face. On December 21, the Social Advisory Committee was established -- as you well said --, which has before it the renewal of the current model of residences, among many other challenges. A committee that, after a first inaugural meeting, has just met this morning at its first official working session. The Greek Government has understood, from the very first moment, that we are faced with a joint challenge; in the face of a challenge in which there are no colors and no bands; in the face of a challenge for which, like all those who believe and trust in the future of our country, the answer must always be consensual, inclusive and participatory. For the same reason, a body was created and put in place in which all the agents involved in the residential sector are represented: medical and nursing staff, including, of course, the gerontologists and health professionals who work directly in the residential centres; directors and non-health workers of all these centres; academics and researchers; architects and, of course, also users' relatives. It's the experience, the ability and the talent of all these experts that will guide us in the aspects to improve in each field, because we are convinced -- and so we demonstrate in all our decisions -- that the only way forward is through dialogue, never through taxation. Thus, all health decisions in residences have always been taken with the medical committee's visa and pleasure. Now that we look at the future of Galicia, we also want to count on the experts again. This new model of residence will be based on three fundamental pillars: bet on the potentialities offered by technology and put it to the service of the quality of life of users; secondly, explore structural and architectural improvements that allow attention to be optimized in all circumstances, and that they do so always from realism and also oriented to maximum effectiveness; and the indispensable advance in the coordination of the social environment and the health area to ensure that at all times, in the residences of older persons and persons with disabilities, there is maximum quality health care, such as everyone and every one of the Galicians and the Galicians. To achieve this goal, the first step is to analyze and evaluate the situation of each residential center in Galicia and the implication or impact that the pandemic had on them. And from these data we get, the residence typology will be reviewed according to the profile of each user; different areas will be defined according to their use; the situation and distribution of residences will of course be an important factor in always favoring the integration of users; and the optimal size of each center will also be analyzed. Once the conclusions have been drawn, a period of time will be guaranteed to act at all residential centres in Galicia to meet the new requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, we are working on this new model of future residences, not forgetting at all the challenges we have in the present. The clarity of our priorities has enabled the residences of older people and persons with disabilities to be the most protected places in Galicia today. They were the first to receive the vaccine, both residents and workers; they were placed at the highest alert level from the next day after Christmas to protect their residents, without ever depriving them of their family visits; and they also count on the highest diagnostic frequency, thanks to the pilots that take place every three days, the antigen tests, the saliva tests, and all these types of tests that are permanently available, without any limit; and of course, inspections and audits have been intensified at all these centers. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we've been on a long journey, but we also know that, right now, all the workers -- or many workers -- forces weaken them and it's hard for them to see the end of the tunnel. But the fruits of experience and the project of the future that we are building among all of us are becoming angry with the passing of time. First of all, when we can definitely leave behind this social and health crisis, which is going through one of its worst moments. Later on, when we see the result of a job that will forever change the concept that we have of residences. Because together we can make them more human, we can make them more welcoming and more functional to respond to the needs of our loved ones: those who have always given everything to build Galicia that we have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u169	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica round, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u170	Thank you, President. Thank you, too, Counselor, for the answer. I was checking now which were exactly the questions we had in the inquiry, but only talked about the residences. We, from BNG, are also the fear that we have: that we share services again and that we review the model of residences. We can sort of agree with the three questions, the three axes you're working on, and we're not able to get them out of there, out of those three ideas. We also told him that he had in the Committee on Reactivation the Director General for Sociosanitary Care -- that we are not able to go a little further into the way they walk, even though it's just like the idea of the Government. I'm convinced that the Government has an idea of where it wants to walk, beyond contributions, approaches and points that make different people, entities and institutions around that advisory council that has just been created. But the fear that we have, from the BNG, is that we can see from that shared perspective the attention and model of care that needs to be driven in this country from here on. The fear that we have is that we try to change something so that everything will continue the same. We believe that, after all we have lived in this country, in the whole planet, in the whole Spanish state, in the European Union... But to us, which is about to face our own reality, here in Galicia, around all the services of attention to dependency, care for older people, to think or address in such an isolated way the different sectors and services that turn around, precisely, that system of support and care for dependent people is a mistake. And we can't afford to go out. -- we always say it -- through the same door that we came in, after all we've been living in this country. We, with our motion -- also ahead of us -- always with the will we work with from the BNG, which is working for this country, improving and bringing forward proposals, reaching our shoulder -- if you want to see it this way -- to build a better country for all and for all, what we are going to do is introduce that perspective and that integral perspective into the new model of care that needs to be developed in this country. And I also ask them that in the work or work plan that develops this advisory committee and the Italian Government itself, I also ask them that I ask the work or work plan to develop that advisory committee and the German Government itself do not see the residences unique and exclusively isolated, because if something is to something we have to walk in this country, in addition to providing us with public residences that are a public service that ends up with the distortion of the absolutely impossible that eight out of every ten squares are private, it is towards a closer model, which is fixed or centre, let us say -- all the abundance of public services having a home -- the home of the person himself -- as reference; a model of care that is -- insist -- by -- by myself -- by public; that you have that universal vocation the universal vocation of every ten of every ten of every square squares of every ten of every square squares of every ten of every squares that are private squares of this country as a right; it is towards a closer homeland of this country, that has a closer or narrow model of residence in itself or centred paper in which we have a lot, and centred out of territorial paper, but there is not in itself, but we have a lot of territorial hard hard hard hard hard hard paper, but we have enough enough, but we have no sense of central center of central center of convenience, but we have enough enough, but we have no sense, but we have enough in the centre of good good sense of good good good good good sense, but we have enough, but also in the centre of broad centre of broad centre of broad centre of broad centre of broad centre of broad centre of broad centre of broad centre of broad centre of broad but also in the centre of broad centre of broad centre of good speed but also in the center of broad but also in the centre of the centre of the centre of ordinary centre of the center of the same but also in the center of the center of the center of the economic centre of the center of the center of the center of the economic centre of the center of the economic centre of the economic centre of the economic centre of the economic centre of data, for the economic centre of data, for the economic centre of data, for the economic centre of the economic centre of the economic centre of data, for the economic centre of the economic centre of data, for the Economic centre of data, for the economic centre of data, for the economic centre of data, for the economic centre Something that points out -- that I, for example, didn't know and I recognize it -- that report from the Demographic Observatory is that, the more dependent it is the person to be cared for, the more people are at home and are cared for by relatives. This means -- to see if I'm able to explain -- that those people who need -- let's say -- a more professional degree of attention are neither in a specialized center nor receive mainly the care of a professional worker on the part of the public service network that we have, but it's often the women themselves, the daughters or the nobility who take care of that. I think we have to stop that. First, because we have to walk into a model of care that is public, that is collective, of the society as a whole and as professional as possible; and then, that also recognizes the immense value -- I said it at the beginning -- of that care work so often invisible. And that's better working conditions for those who work in the socio-health field and also better wage conditions, which they don't have today. So we will formulate this motion, because -- I insist -- I think we would make a huge collective mistake as a country if we went through the same door that we entered, with the same model of care that we entered in this crisis. We need to address a reality like ours -- I insist -- where we're going to live more and more years -- and that's a reason for pride -- but we have to aspire to do it not only in number of years, but also in conditions and quality of life. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u172	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Rodil, in my first speech I spoke of the fact that the Sociosanitary Committee we have just set up will, among other challenges, be responsible for the creation of this new model of residence. Of course, we will also review the rest of the resources and the rest of the services we provide to the Greeks and to the Greeks in the field of care. You referred to the number of public squares we have here in Galicia for the older people. Well, a good data is that it's 44% more than when the Galician Nationalist Block ruled in Galicia. Twenty-five percent of our population is over 65 years old. Of course we have to continue to create more public squares every day, and that's why we're building the seven major residences in the main cities of Galicia, so our community has nine hundred new public squares more in the coming years, which we'll make available to older people. But it must also be done, Mrs. Rodil, a reflection -- which I know you like to reflect --. Not all older people have or want to go to a residence; they don't have to be institutionalized. When we ask an older person, "Where do you want to go through this stage of your life?"Most of the older people tell us, "I want to stay in my own house." For if those older people want to continue living in their own homes, the different administrations have to be able to bring the resources up to them where people live. That's why Galicia is the leading community at the national level in the home aid service, so that a person, a certain number of hours a day, can take care of that older person in his own home. Galicia continues to open more public squares every day in day centers; Galicia continues to open more and more homes of the largest -- which are 100 percent free -- in the rural of Galicia. Because all those older people who live in our rural areas also have that need and the right to count on a daily mini-centre 100 percent free that is at their disposal permanently. Finally, Mrs. Rodil, Galicia continues to create more public squares, more public services, and make us available to all the largest people in Galicia. But the German Government also continues to work every day to continue to care for more people with disabilities. So at this moment we have 25 percent more public care facilities for people with disabilities, and many of them are managed by our dear ones, so precious -- and to whom the Greek Government is very grateful -- social entities, who work tirelessly for the 300 sixty-five days of the year to care for, to care for and to watch for people with disabilities. [[Applause]] Look, as you can verify, Mrs. Rodil -- as I told you -- we've got a lot of road to go, but it's true that we still have a big way to go. But it's also true -- and we have to recognize it -- that we are now more prepared and we have more knowledge than ever about the impact of the coronavirus. I know it's not an easy challenge to face, but we're trying to beat a virus that is constantly mutating, that grows in aggressiveness and that it's taking it for every slot you find as small as it is. A careless or overconfidence poses a danger to many Greeks. But prevention works. The immense care, the immense affection and the unfeasible work, with total professionalism, who performed all the social and health personnel during these difficult months of pandemic, gave their results. We worked tirelessly at the health and social policy councils, at the hands of the clinical committee of experts, drawing up all the protocols that allowed many older people not to lose their lives. We'll never leave a minute's work to save life and improve the care of older people. Once again, I want to thank all the workers and workers of Galician residential for their incalculable effort. Today, despite having triple active cases among the general population than in the peak of April, in the residences of older people, half of the cases are registered. This means that we managed to prevent the virus from entering these centers to a greater extent than before, but we won't stop until this threat leaves all of Galicia's residences completely. Be sure that until then we will not stop working for a single minute, we will not stop working day and night, to continue saving life and also ensuring the well-being and care needed by older people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u173	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now move on to the next item on the agenda, item 6, of questions to the Government. Question by Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán and three other Members, by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the budgetary departure relating to aid for small and medium-sized trade
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u174	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Gallego Sanromán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u175	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, second Vice-President; good afternoon, Members and Members. The economic crisis generated as a result of the expansion of the covid-19 is having a strong economic impact on local trade. This crisis was the last blow for many small and medium-sized businesses. Some of them were dying, or living day by day for a long time, and others were not able to survive the paralysis of the economy. This crisis has as a result that the small and medium-sized trade sector cannot cope with fixed costs, and is at the limit of losing its liquidity. The situation is becoming economically unsustainable and is affecting the survival of a sector with strong implementation in Galicia. Local governments are promoting actions aimed at dynamising the sector in order to increase consumption and generate jobs in their municipalities. Local governments are aware of the critical situation of trade, not in the case of the Galician Union. The Autonomous Government of the People's Party shows total concern for our traders at this stage in which we are living, so we need to seize the Government that you represent by activating economic measures with a greater budget so that this sector can save its liquidity. The autonomous government is the one who has the competences in internal trade and not the municipalities; this is how the Self-Government Statute sets out. Councils don't compete in trade, but the Galician Union. The measures provided for by the Government of Greece are totally insufficient, even underprivileged, for the 30,000 traders registered in our autonomous community. Galicia's small trade is unjustly neglected. The reality that is emerging in these months because of the pandemic of cowardice seems complicated for the small and medium-sized trade sector. Half of the autonomous casualties are trade. This data shows what is going on in this sector. The Greek Government must accompany the restrictions announced due to the economic support pandemic to all sectors affected, especially trade. That's why this sector is calling for direct help from the Autonomic Executive, as well as a greater fincapé in procurement support campaigns in this sector. Mr Second Vice-President, will you go to Galicia to provide a sufficient budget share to ensure direct aid to the small and medium-sized trade sector so that it can cope with fixed costs and save its liquidity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u176	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Gallego, indeed, the trade sector needs everyone's help: from all administrations, also from all citizenship and, of course, from the traders themselves and their work linked to this effort for their digitization and to continue to transmit confidence and security to the citizen. So, I think we're about to thank the joint work that is being developed by all administrations to meet the challenges. It is also time to thank the sacrifice that the trade sector itself is assuming to deal with the pandemic, with the consequences it has on this sector. And, of course, everyone, Your Honor, is moving us the same goal, which is to overcome the pandemic and to look after the health of the Greeks while we have to work together to consolidate a strong Greek trade, which is innovative and, above all, sustainable. It's a collective effort, and the data we have, from the point of view of sales of retail trade in Galicia, are showing that it's resisting the effects of the pandemic better than in Spain as a whole. Waiting to know the official December data, we are, Your Honor, the second autonomous community with better sales developments in Spain, with a drop of 2.8% between January and November 2020 as a result of a fall of 7.4% of the national average. In other words, sales of retail trade in Galicia are falling by 60% less than in the rest of Spain and is therefore a clear example of that effort within the difficulty. Of course, our will and our objective, within our competences and the resources of the Autonomous Community, is to be next to the sector. We've been from the very first moment, Your Honor. I am sorry that in this House you objected to the report that the Government has transferred to the Reactivation Commission, with all the direct aid and all the support that the Galician Union, within the Reactivation Plan, has transferred to the small trade, from the measures to adapt its facilities, the digitisation platforms, a rescue plan of EUR 84 million, from which trade has also benefited with direct aid, even through different loans and aid to the dynamisation of trade. Support, Your Honor, of EUR 70 million in direct aid and loans that we have already transferred to traders today so they can deal with this pandemic. And we will continue; we will continue with that second rescue plan, also with direct aids and also with help from which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u179	...trade will benefit in the coming weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u180	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you. Replica, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u181	Thank you, President. Second Vice President, I'll stay a little bit the way I was. The autonomous government, of which you are a member, devotes little resources to trade, taking into account the urgent needs of this sector. We can also check this out in the budgets this year, which only increased seven million per game in trade. "The biggest budget of Galician history, 11,500 million," said his group yesterday and today over and over again. But are they really not able to guarantee more direct help for small and medium-sized trade? Look, the Galician Trade Federation estimates that between 20% and 25% of businesses could close along this 2021, and after the meetings we held with different trade federations, the conclusion is the same: we need more direct help, we don't want more loans, we're at the limit. No more loans; no more direct help. Yes, direct help! [[Applause]] The Council of Galicia's aid comes late and is not enough, not even enough to cover the expenses. This is not what this honourable Member says, the merchants tell it; the traders we meet with. And it serves as an example, for example, Tui's trade, which can no longer bear the perimeter closure, the isolation in which it has been immersed for three months. But this is an example. In every town and city trade is in a very similar situation: they can't, Mr. Vice President. And the last measures announced by the Board to contain the third wave will last at least until mid-February, and trade has to close at six o'clock; another month of drought for local business holes, another month of drought! That's why the merchants ask the Government of Greece for economic compensation in proportion to the restrictions that come into force today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u182	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u183	Thanks, time's up. To close the question, Mr. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u184	Mr. President. Mrs Gallego, trade is indeed going through a difficult situation. No one has the doubt, and, of course, he needs everyone's cooperation, and very especially all administrations. I believe that the Council of Galicia, from the very first moment, has been and will continue to be on the side of trade, and we hope that this effort will also join the rest of the administrations, including the deputies and the municipalities, in this second rescue plan. I transferred direct help, Mrs. Gallego, from the very first moment so they could make investments linked to the security of their businesses, help for their digitization and direct help to cope with the fixed expenses of the first EUR 84 million rescue plan, of which trade was also benefited. And I'm telling you that, in the second rescue plan we're designing, with those 75 million euros that will bring together the Galician Union and that we hope that they can be increased with the contribution of the rest of the administrations, we will continue to support those direct aids and those direct costs. It's true that small trade has to take a major sacrifice by reducing its hours to close at six o'clock, but of course, the Galician Union will not fail to trade. We will further boost the support to get ahead and to a greater number of companies, put fewer requirements for aid to more people, and we will also complement this second rescue plan with the first rescue plan. And once again, the three lines that make up the plan will be accumulable. Finally, we will continue to bet on the trade of proximity; we are fully aware of the sacrifice that is developing. The Union is moving and will continue to transfer direct aid to trade and we will also continue to bet on digitisation and the various channels of trade so that small trade can compete on equal terms as well as the rest of trade. So we will continue, as I say, to face together with the sector, both the health pandemic and the sector's own reactivation, with direct aid and also aid linked to trade dynamization, and of course there is no doubt that this government is fully aware of the reality and importance of small trade, and, as it has not failed since the pandemic arose, it will not fail you in this difficulty frame. Once again, small trade is demonstrating its ability to deal with this and also to help the rest of the Greeks to deal with the health pandemic. Of course, we will help that recovery and economic reactivation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u185	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonso, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the plans of the Galician Union to avoid an unprecedented crisis in the county of Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u186	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, advisors and advisors, President Faixóo, do you think you're doing something to prevent the economic and social disaster in the district of Ferrol? You'll say, we already know it's all the fault of the state government and the PSOE. And we're not going to say that the Government of Spain has no responsibility in the situation of the county of Ferrol. Indeed, the Government of Spain has the responsibility to close Endesa, but what is the proposal or contribution of the Council of Galicia, of our Government, to solve the problem that this decision causes? How could they have been waiting for a year for biofuel test results without having a plan B? Because, in fact, the Government of Spain is also responsible for restricting Navantia's activity in the Ferrol River to the military market; some restrictions that are at the root of the crisis -- the structural employment and demographics that Ferrol lives since these restrictions were imposed on us, but they are restrictions that you have communicated with for the many years that the Spanish Government has had and that the Union lives peacefully, as demonstrated by its resignation to be on the Navantia Board of Directors. So say, ladies and gentlemen, if you've been planning on doing something to solve the lack of workload in Navantia, Ferrol's laugh. It is also true that it has some responsibility for the Government of Spain to close the Siemens-Gamesa factory in the Somozas because they refuse to condition the installation of wind farms to which associated industrial projects are brought. But parks of less than 50 megawatts of power are the competence of the Government of Greece, and industrial policies are the competence of the Government of Greece, and you do nothing to prevent the wind boom closing in Galicia one of the few remaining factories of components. It is also true that the Government of Spain holds several administrations and various infrastructures that condition the survival and health of the Ferrol River, but the fishing and seafood competition is from the Union, it is from the Greek Government, and they do nothing to regenerate and save the river and the sector that depends on it. Two years told the advisor who was waiting for the Government of Spain to fulfill its commitment to conduct a comprehensive study of the river. Two years waiting! God preserves his patience! As we don't have much time, government gentlemen, I would be grateful if you would focus your response on what you have planned to do so that the district of Ferrol will overcome this tsunami that comes up to us and leave for the congress the discussions and accusations about what the Government of Spain should do. In Madrid too, you worry about the problems of Galicia, because it gives the impression that for the People's Party, the problems of Galicia are not likely to be dealt with in the Spanish institutions. It gives the impression that the MEPs who send the People's Party to Madrid with the votes of the Germans lost the memory and identity of the capital of the kingdom. Nothing else. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u187	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. For the answer, the second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, it is curious that you put yourself in the shortcut of nationalism that destroys industry and aims to destroy industry in Galicia by trying to move and be a judge of the actions of the different administrations. What I'd like to know is where BNG is, where BNG is located when we talk about the conflicts taking place in Navantia with the naval sector, in Endesa with the bridge center, or in the Somozas. Your Honor, the Union knows very well where it is. First of all, alongside the workers, and working together with the workers, because we're doing a common front with the company committee of Navantia, the works committee of the Bridges and the company committee of the Somozas. And you'll see that the Government, the Galician Union, is working together with the workers and that, of course, the Galician Union is assuming its competences and is helping the different projects to cope with their reality. It is true that we are missing, indeed--you have me transferred--the support of the Government, but also what I would like to know is where the BNG is. At no time is the BNG supporting the position of the workers of Navantia, the workers of Somozas and the workers of Endesa. So, I think the Galego Nationalist Block should probably think about whether what it is looking for is a political opportunism when it wants to talk about industry or whether it really is next to the workers. Let's talk, if you like, about Endesa. BNG is not asking for the continued operation of the bridge power station. Tomorrow there's a meeting of the Bridge Bureau, and the Galician board will transfer its commitment and willingness so it can continue to operate the Bridge Central. Where's BNG? Do you support the continuation of the bridge plant with the use of biofuels? The Council of Galicia, yes; that's what we'll defend tomorrow. I'd like to know where BNG is. The Galician Union defends, in the case of Navantia, something very simple: the Government's commitment since 2018. The president of the board first asked Pedro Sánchez at his first meeting was a burden of work for Navantia. Two and a half years later, after many commitments, there is no such burden of work. Where's BNG? I'll tell you, claiming civilian construction, not military. Well, he won't be able to find the Galician Union either. What I'd like to know is whether you defend military construction in Navantia or not. Finally, the Galician Union knows very well where it is and, unfortunately, the Galician Nationalist Block is against industry in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u189	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Fernández Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u190	Mr. Vice-President, wait four years to speak to me. All of a sudden, the accusations we've seen between PP and POSE, enter the Galician Union and the Government of Spain, to pass the ball from roof to roof to roof, without solving anything at all, show the defence of Galicia that the current territorial model of the Spanish State causes; a lack of competence, a lack of capacity of the Greek people to make decisions, to decide and put in place policies and plans based on our own interests, our priorities, our strengths and our emergencies. [[Laughter]] The lack of self-government appears as a common denominator of all these serious problems that we suffer and that otherwise would certainly be a preferred object of attention by a Greek government worthy of such a name. [[Applause]] We need skills and tools to boost our economy, we need self-government, and what is more important, will to exercise it. It's you, and your political branchism for state interests -- sometimes supporters, almost always economics -- the main trap so that Galicia, our country, can develop all its enormous potential. And I think we regret that you're not going to lie about facts, because that would mean solving the problems, that would mean we have a future, but we're more and more afraid that your role here, that the role that you're willing to play with this country, is just to turn off the light when the last one leaves. So since the BNG we celebrate the convening of a strike in Ferrol's territory, because that means, at least, refusing to naturalize, refusing to normally assume the current state of things; it means a principle of rebellion, of confidence that things can be different, and yes, this is a reason for hope for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, solutions for Ferrolterra, decent work on our land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u191	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Alfonso. To close the question, the second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, what an empty speech of content! Surely for the Galego Nationalist Block, who doesn't care about industry, in internal key, it's a very laudable speech, but I greatly regret it, and I honestly believe that the Galician Nationalist Block is wrong not to support the Galician Union, because, by not supporting the Galician Union, what it's doing is not supporting the workers either of Navantia or of Endesa, nor of the Bridges. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] If you come here to make political opportunism -- as they often do, that you will take pictures in different conflicts, and now you want to move your support to the February 25 strike -- that you know that the People's Party also defends that formula, of course you do. Because we are in a government in which, indeed, there is both Podemos and the Socialist Party, and, by the way, the government that you support... is that you are the permanent contradiction in industrial matters. [[Murmurs.]] You support the Government of Pedro Sánchez in industrial matters, a government that is working against Navantia, against Endesa and against Somozas. So, Mr. Fernández, you won't find this government. I'm sorry you didn't respond to the commitment I asked of the bridge workers. It's clear that you don't support the continuity of the bridge plant. Let this government know if it supports it, and so it will be reflected in the Bureau of the Bridges meeting that will take place tomorrow. As it is reflected, not only in this parliamentary question, but in the agreement that you signed with the Socialist Legislative Party, that you do not support the military construction with Navantia, because the only concern they had in that agreement was to talk about civil construction, and I deeply regret that the Nationalist Block of Galicia continues without supporting Navantia from the point of view of military construction, which we all know is its future. With regard to Siemens, once again the Galician Nationalist Block has an erratic speech. You don't support the development of the wind sector, and now you're trying to put into practice the work being done by this government to defend the workers of the Bridges. Well, of course, if I can assure you that we are going to defend the position of Somoza workers so that industrial production can continue there. We're going to ask the Ministry of Labour to influence the bad faith that Siemens has in the position of the Somozas and we're going to demand that the Government, from an industrial point of view, give a solution in the right transition so that the industrial future of Somozas is a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u193	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and six other Members on the action being taken in Galicia to support industrial activity at Siemens-Gamesa plant in Somozas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u194	Mr. Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u195	Thank you, President. I want to start by showing our support to over 200 workers and their Siemens-Gamesa families in Somozas; we share their concern for their jobs. The case of Siemens-Gamesa is a clear case of relocation of a multinational that transfers its production centres from Spain to other countries. We attended the closing of their factory in Navarre in June 2020, and now we intend to close that of Somozas and Cuenca. Siemens-Gamesa doesn't just leave Galicia, he leaves Spain, and he goes to Portugal, looking for easier taxation and labour costs for them, or determined. This march contradicted the Socialist Government's speech about the renewables and the ecological transition, and we've been supporting the corporate committee for a year since the People's Parliamentary Group. Exactly one year ago, in January 2020, we met with the chairman of the company committee because he was concerned about the lack of requests. In June it gets worse because they close Navarre's plant, and after the summer the orders continue unreachable and the concern increases. In September this same year, Counsellor, this one who speaks to you and the Industry Spokesman, Mr. Tellado, we made a visit to the Somozas plant. We had difficulty making the visit, but finally it was carried out, and the management of the plant assured us that there was no cause for concern. In the middle of October, the first plenary session after summer, we wanted to adopt an institutional statement of support to workers similar to that which was being approved in all the municipalities of the region. However, on this occasion, the Socialist Party's refusal did not make it possible to adopt that institutional statement. The announcement of the closure comes at the worst moment for Ferrolterra: the difficult situation of the naval sector, where the workload is exhausted, where the beginning of the F-110 is delayed and where he does not undertake to make a bridge ship, as is done on the shipyards of Navantia in Andalusia; the closure of the thermal power plant of the Bridges, because he wants the Government of Spain; and the situation of the electrointensives, which affects this county and the port authority of Ferrol-San Cibrao. In Ferrol district we have to fight for this Siemens-Gamesa plant not to close, not only for the 215 people who work there, but also for induced employment. We know of your concern, Mr. Conde, we also know of the president's concern, and it is true that there are many managements that are done and that they are not published every day, or that they are not told every day, but we are aware that the company committee takes due care of each and every one of them. I'd like you to comment on what work you're taking to Junta with regard to the announced closure of Siemens-Gamesa in the Somozas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u196	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Calvo, in fact, we've been working together for many months with the Siemens Business Committee, in Somozas, precisely, to look for an industrial future for this plant and above all to claim before Siemens and the Government that that future can be a reality. We greatly regret Siemens' attitude, it doesn't seem reasonable, and, of course, his reputation will be questioned if he doesn't withdraw the employment regulation file and doesn't stop the consultation period while one can negotiate at a joint working table between the Government, the Galician Board and the company committee itself. We ask you again that you can reverse this decision, which is an unfair decision, because you have left to develop a plant without guaranteeing its competitiveness, and above all, because we are talking about a historic moment for the development of renewable energies. Siemens knows perfectly well that from Galicia we are presenting a candidature that opts for the European Funds Next Generation, where the wind sector has a special protagonist. Siemens also knows that he has been offered alternatives and support to continue his activity in Somozas and Siemens knows that, of course, the participation of renewable energy projects can be an opportunity to give content and workload to the Somozas plant. Therefore, to the Galician Junta it seems illogical to us that Siemens can talk about closing the factory at the same time as he intends to take advantage of the opportunities that are open to the renewables in Galicia. That last week's presentation of a Siemens scan project with Navantia and Pymar doesn't seem to be consistent with the closure of a factory in the Bridges, nor is it when the company is getting a benefit of 121 million euros and maximum also when the same company in France, with a similar context of development of renewables, is building a step factory to meet its production commitments. Finally, of course, the Galician Union will continue to work, together with the company committee, and we will transfer to the Government, both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, which we can work together to be able to reverse this situation, both in order to demonstrate Siemens' bad faith within the ERE negotiation process and also with the Transitional Ministry to look for these alternatives from an industrial point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u198	Thank you, Vice President. For the reply, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u199	Mr. Vice President, it is true that our region is a suffering region. Unfortunately, we're used to a lot of layoffs and a lot of locks. They began with industrial conversion in the 1980s, the decision of the Socialist Government of Mr González. We never became the industrial ones again. But it's true that we're also tired of some companies that just think about maximizing their profits and not the effects that they produce on workers or in some neighborhoods, and also policies that they suspect and don't think about the micro effects, which are very important. We want to be the first to carry out an ecological transition and close the thermals, but that has consequences. Ask the people of the Bridge if it has consequences, and the people of Meirama. We also wanted to bet on renewables, but we shut down the companies that are involved in this. In short, political decisions have consequences. We, from the very first moment, transferred all the worries of the company committee to the different members of the Government. For example, at first, they were worried because on a road, the road by which the steps went out to the outside port, there was a curve where the larger steps could not go out. Well, today this work is in expropriation, it will be bided before mid-year, and it will probably be done by the end of year. We've always been willing to collaborate and get any project forward, and I thank you, Mr. Conde, for your predisposition also with the committee and with the company to try to have a future for all these workers. But I'm done. They didn't answer where they were before. We're also tired in the area that many people only know how to sit behind the sign, because behind the sign if it's very tasteful, there's never to make decisions and stay well with everyone, and besides, when they have the opportunity to get into reason or change the decisions of the Government in Madrid, what they do is to clause and always support the Socialist Government; they do it in more than 40 municipalities in the province of Coruña, they do it in the Crown Deputies and, when Sánchez was looking for support, there was always the Block as a necessary collaborator of the Socialist Government. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u200	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. To close the question, Mr. Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Calvo, we agree with this suggestion that, indeed, the situation under which Somoza workers are going through is an unfair situation; unfair and generated by a decision of a company that is simply proposing a relocation for purely economic reasons. It is also an unfair decision by a government that is proposing an energy transition, but that transition must ensure, to be fair, an industrial future, and more in a sector like the wind sector, where the opportunities that companies will have are obvious. So it's hard to understand this situation, and that's why we're going to demand that the company, first of all, withdraw that employment regulation file, which paralyzes the consultation period while negotiating with the two administrations and also with the company committee and, at the same time, we're going to ask the Government of Spain, first of all, to make the maximum impact from the point of view of the labour authority, through the Ministry of Labour, on this ERE negotiation process, and to identify whether Siemens is actually acting in good or bad faith. So that's the job of the Ministry of Labour, and we're going to move it to work with all the strength, just as we're going to transfer it to the Ministry of Ecological Transition that we can really identify opportunities to give continuity to this plant through an industrial plan that can be linked to the just transition. There's a decision that the Government of Spain has to make about the transition knots in the Bridges. You have to subsat 1,500 megawatts in competitive competition, and there's an opportunity to link it to industrial plans. The question is, why don't you also link them to the situation of Somoza workers, in addition to the situation that exists right now in the district of the Bridges? Finally, we are fully aware that in the case of Siemens plant, in Somozas, the maximum responsibility is the company; we are aware. The company's lack of commitment, especially in view of the growth expectations that are linked to renewables over the next few years, so believe it, but at the same time that responsibility of the company must be accompanied by a commitment by the Government of Spain to give a solution to a situation that is not fair, and there are mechanisms for the Somoza plant to have that industrial future. Which is why the Galician Union is going to work together with the company committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u202	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Diego Calvo Pouso and seven other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the continuing changes in the price of electricity and the measures he has set in motion for the Council of Galicia to support the most vulnerable families
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u203	You have the word "Martha Nuvoa Iglesias" from the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u204	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Vice-President, good afternoon. Unfortunately, we have to talk here today about the high price of electricity that we are suffering from all consumers in the year 2021. I'm going to read you a series of statements on the subject -- I open you quote -- : "Disparate the bill of light one day as today only demonstrates the greed of the electricians; if the government consents it will be complicit", "We'll lower the bill of light by putting the big electricians firm," "The rise of light of 8% proves the failure of the government's electrical reform and alerting the risk of more people suffering energy poverty," "This Christmas the light will have a price of 10% higher than last year; thousands of families will not be able to keep their homes at adequate temperatures, which will have a serious impact on the health of those who have less. No decent government should tolerate it." You will think, Mr Vice-President, that these are statements by the opposition parties to the State Government this past month, but no, these are all statements by the current President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, the Social Vice President of Podemos, Mr Iglesias, and the Spanish Minister of Consumption, Mr Garzón. That's what they said when Rajoy ruled in Madrid and the light rose by 8%. This past month, when the light rises by 30% for all consumers, in the midst of a pandemic, in the midst of a cold wave and with an economic crisis never before seen, the most social government in history says that the light will rise only a few euros, that the rise is conjunctural and that when it rains and makes wind it will lower the price. And why not? that the VE of light cannot be touched because Europe does not leave us; one more fallacy, as many as this government of the state has used to us. What they don't say is that once again the Spaniards see how we have to pay much more for light than most of our European neighbours. During 2019 the daily electricity market was 26.5 % more expensive, and the German, 20.9 % more expensive than the French. The fall in demand for electricity during the last year by the covid-19, in line with the government's containment measures, brought a certain relief to the daily price of electricity, but it was gradually dissipating until November 2020 at only 0.6 % less than the previous year. This upward trend is intensified in the early days of 2021, so the consumer electricity bill has increased by more than 20 %, reaching up to 34 % in the last few days. In Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, we also have to see how the lack of renewable technology had to activate several groups from the bridge power station, stopped by an unfair energy transition carried out by the Government of the State. The difference between what is happening in other countries such as Germany and France, where we see how they cover the renewable gap with coal or nuclear technologies respectively, which relieve the costs of invoices, in Galicia we see how not to keep the bridge power station open as a backbone. In this ranking of ecology where the central government wants to put Spain into the gallery, we see with resignation as in 2019 Spain increased by 600 % the purchase of energy to Morocco from a newly built thermal power plant. Once again, Mr. Vice President, the inconsistencies of an extreme energy transition which, unfortunately, will be very unfair to many Greek workers. By the way, the People's Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u206	...we want to ask you how...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Thank you. You know the question Mr. Counsellor Thank you. [[Applause]] Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Novoa, indeed, on January 8th, the price of electricity on the market at the largest price rose to 115 euros megavatio/hour in Spain, a record figure that had not been reached since 2010. A maximum price that, together with the strong ups recorded over the first half of the month, unfortunately, will lead to families having to pay 25 % more in the light receipt. It's true that the wind pull in the last few days, derived from the climateology and the stabilization of the gas market itself, has attenuated the increase in the price of electricity production. But we all know that the problem exists and we all know that it's not a conjunctural uphill. Behind that, we are faced with a disordered energy transition and a precipitated energy planning that marked the goal of closing thermal power stations without having any kind of substitution technology mature enough. Let's say it in this House. It did not seem reasonable to close the thermal power plant and depend solely on gas as backup technology. And time is giving us, unfortunately, reason. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we regret the silence in this case of the opposition groups, which at the time did not support the Galician Union when it wanted to defend a fair transition, also centered on a bridge center which was Spain's father. Unfortunately, it is proving that with this situation an important role is being played, to the point where the thermal power plant of the Bridges went into operation precisely in order to be able to save the face of the electrical system at times of trouble this month. In short, we need the government to watch for a competitive power supply; we are asked by citizens because families have to face enormously high energy costs. When the Socialist Party and We were in opposition, they assumed that with them the price of light would come down and that we would never suffer peaks again like those of the last days. And it seems that it will not be achieved because, in fact, the transition that was being proposed was not reasonable. The Government of Spain, therefore, should be sensitive to this reality and therefore take the measures within its reach in this context to alleviate the bill of light, as may be the lower rate of VAT tax of 21% to 10%, which, as you well pointed out, other Member States of the European Union are doing so, so there is no possibility that there is no impediment in Spain for this measure to be taken too. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u209	Thank you very much. For the reply, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u210	Thank you, President. The truth is, Mr. Vice-President, will prove to be incomprehensible, like me, the silence, the complicit silence of this opposition, which in a plenary such as this was unable to say anything about the price of electricity, even yesterday when an energy-related initiative was discussed. In the full pandemic of the covid-19 and in the seasonal moment where energy supply is most needed, we see how the price of light reaches a climb never before seen in Spain. An increase in the price of light and gas that occurred in the midst of an intense wave of cold, seriously affecting the economy of the most vulnerable people and families, as well as the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-government. In view of this situation, the Minister's statements for the Ecological Transition and Demographic Retreso, stressing the rise of the price of light or the inaction of the Minister of Consumption, of Podemos, indicate a change of speech by the current Government of the Socialist Coalition and of Podemo regarding when they were opposed and promised a fall in the price of light. In a situation of extreme need in the middle of the blanket 19 pandemic, in the middle of winter, it is essential to help the most vulnerable families. As you said, it's not a conjunctural climb, the high price of light is a systemic evil. It's just that a few euros of rise -- as the branch minister said -- is an inescapable effort for many consumers right now in Spain. In this sense, it should be remembered that the Galician Union has since 2014 with the electric ticket and since 2017 with the Greek electric bond, launched following Law 7/2017, on December 14, with energy efficiency measures and guarantees of accessibility and electricity, supporting the most needed Greek consumers and complementing the state social bond. And to finish, Mr. Vice-President, we would like to see in your reply more details of what measures were taken by the Galician Union to support the most vulnerable families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. To close the question, the second vice-president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Novoa, indeed, when we talk about a fair transition, we have to identify that fair transition with both the workers and the families. The workers don't have to be the culprits and the injured of an unfair transition, and of course not the families either. And the families, unfortunately, are suffering in the last few days the evidence that this transition is not being fair. That is why the administrations must act, and in this case the Government of Spain must act to correct this situation precisely. And since the Galician Union we also have to have that commitment to support families who need it most, and especially those homes that can't cope with the receipt of light. Galicia, as you know, has been a pioneering community with the launch of the electric ticket, followed by the help to avoid supply cuts since 2016. Two measures, ladies and gentlemen, have already benefited more than 12,500 families between 2014 and 2017, addressing all requests that have met the requirements, more than one and a half million euros. Galicia, as you know, was also a pioneer in 2017 with the approval of the Energy Efficiency Act and the guarantee of accessibility to electricity, and was the first autonomous community to complete the state social bond through the Greek electric bond. We are, ladies and gentlemen, the only autonomous community that has a mechanism of these characteristics; the only autonomous community that has this mechanism, precisely to ensure the complementarity of the State social bond. Since then, we have granted 9,752 aid for something more than 3 million euros, which is ensuring that these 9,752 families are not cut off from supply. Hence Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, stands below the state average in energy poverty, according to the data of the survey of living conditions of the National Institute of Statistics. Our goal, ultimately, is to guarantee access to a need as basic as electricity and that, of course, there are no cuts in the service. And that is why we have already called this year 2021 the aid this year, with a budget of EUR 1.3 million, which, like every year, will be adapted from the budgetary point of view to cover all the aid that can be presented to the most vulnerable consumers, therefore. That is why, Your Honor, we believe that the Central Government -- as other countries of the European Union are doing -- needs to take action, and in this case we understand that from a fiscal point of view there is room for VAT to be reduced for these families and, therefore, that we can switch from 21% to 10% of VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u213	Thank you. Question by Alexandra Fernández Gómez and D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the policies that will launch the Galician Union to intervene on the empty housing park
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u214	You have the word Mrs. Alexandra Fernández Gómez of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u215	Thank you, President. Counsellor, there are three structural problems in the real estate park in Galicia that are absolutely irrefutable: the first is that housing in public property is absolutely null; the second is that there is at this moment a bubble at rental prices that, besides, has no brakes in time of pandemic; and thirdly, that there is an excessive built park, there are more than 300,000 empty dwellings. We are the autonomous community with the highest number of empty housing throughout the state. Today we want to bring the debate, precisely that issue, that of the empty housing, but also without losing sight of the other two serious problems, because with truthful intervention in the empty housing park we can contribute to solving the other two serious problems, which are that of the public park and prices. But before I point out the solutions, I want to point out that this, of course, is a multicausal problem; therefore, there are different types of empty housing. There's a part of the empty housing that has to do with rural depopulation, and there's a part that has to do with the indiscriminate housing dynamics of recent decades. Just one data: in the last thirty years, the population has fallen into something more than 100,000 inhabitants, and the park has increased into more than half a million homes. And from this indiscriminate construction park there is a part that has to do with an empty speculative housing park, which is in the hands of financial, real estate and speculative entities, especially after the 2008 crisis, and which use that empty housing park to control the prices through withholding those housing. For all this, we bring you two proposals for a solution. First, put in place a strategy to transform empty housing into public housing. Junta must devote an important investor effort to acquire in-use housing to then rehabilitate and reform, if necessary, and incorporate it into the rental public housing park. Because what they're doing right now is buying, rehabilitating and selling; and that's politics of burned land. Mainly put it for sale, and that serves to dynamize construction, it serves to dynamize the real estate sector, but it doesn't serve to have housing public policy responses. Secondly, tax pressure measures on empty dwellings, especially those of a speculative type, of which we were talking about which are mainly in the hands of financial entities or in the hands of speculative entities. They have to be taxed so that they stop speculating on these dwellings; a tax to mobilise that housing, which is incorporated into the housing park, so as to increase the supply and lower prices. And besides, this is a tax measure -- which would allow for more income to make another kind of public housing policies. So until now what you have done is absolutely nothing, so what we bring here today is two proposals to solve three structural problems. So the question I ask you, Counselor, is, if you have a better choice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u216	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u217	...defense it here and, if not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandra Fernández Gómez. [[Mrs. Fernández Gómez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u219	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Fernández, you come with the same topics, it doesn't matter the month and it doesn't matter what we've changed from year to year, and the truth is that it brings a few proposals or, if it comes up with proposals, it's the copy and it takes what you're already doing to the Council of Galicia. One of the topics is the 300,000 dwellings that you say are empty and supposedly there are in Galicia. What you don't say is that these are not real data; what you don't say is that this is a statistic a decade ago; and what you don't say is that we have repeatedly asked the autonomous communities of the Central Government to define what an empty housing is. Because you know that within these 300,000 homes there's a lot of housing in ruins and therefore they wouldn't be habitable, and that can't be said to be an empty housing park. On the other hand, if I agree with you that there are houses that are empty, that there are dwellings that are in ruins, that are in rural areas, but just where there would be that capacity for mobilization, where we have to mobilize and where, besides, if needed housing is in the cities. And that's where we're working. But, look, we have to look at the future and not be constantly talking about the past. What are you doing to Galician Union? Well, we just signed the Social Pact for housing 2021-2025. It's an ambitious document, a document that's been working for many months, thanks to the staff, which is personal that is on the street with the different sensibilities and which is part of the Vivenda Observatory, which has been operating in Galicia for three years. We want to mobilise 1,080 million euros, but we also want to reach 70,000 homes. And we think from the social point of view, also from the economic point of view and from the point of view of sustainability. It is a pact in which we agree with the sector on priorities for the coming years, but especially with consumers. An endorsement with nine different entities: the municipalities, through the Fegamp, the Official College of Architects, the real estate agents, the repairers and technical architects, the Galego Council of Consumers and Users, the Official College of Finance Administrators, the Galaga Association of Housing Cooperatives, the Construction Federation and also the promoters. With this pact, what we do is we put in place a new country project to which housing refers and we count on the commitment of all the agents involved. In addition, I hope that Parliament as a whole will be committed. It's a social pact that I saw explain here a while ago, where we talked about half a hundred measures, of which twelve were totally innovative, and where, besides, we qualified those that didn't have the fruits that they should have, as is the case with the mobilization of empty dwellings, but always talking about realities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u220	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u221	...and not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u222	Thank you, your time is up. [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser, Vázquez Mejuto, speaks words which are not perceived.]] No applause? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I just didn't get used to it. They have to forgive me. That's how I ran away spontaneously, because I'm used to having him always, after every intervention, a applause. You have no evil, I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Alexandra Fernández's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u223	Counsellor, how can you have the face of talking about empty housing data, when you've done an empty housing census five years ago when you pick up what housing is in the hands of credit institutions and management entities that have hidden? How can you talk about empty housing data? [[Applause]] But, more so, we wanted to talk about what the structure of the real estate park is, but you come here, with your minute of propaganda, talking about this social housing pact, which, as a social one, has nothing. Well, we're going to disassemble what that housing pact consists of. Empty housing mobilization program. It consists of aid for the owners of these homes of 8,000 euros in total lost, bonus in tributes, supplementary aid and even other possible bonuses. Stratospheric aid!, moreover, regardless of the type of owner. The most serious thing is that they specifically talk about giving this kind of help to credit institutions, their real estate subsidiaries, asset management entities, and even Sareb. I mean, to the kind of empty housing I was talking about before, that of a speculative nature about what we focus on, and that we propose to intervene with a policy of tax pressure, you turn around and say that, exactly to these, what we have to do is give them the larger subsidies even though each of these aids is for housing. But in addition to helping these types of entities to be able to get rid of that surplus that they have accumulated, they propose to collaborate with them to place these housings to those under 35 years of age through the rental scheme with a right to purchase, with deplorable conditions; conditions under which entities always win and the public and young people are the ones who are defenceless, taking on the costs and risks. It's indecent and, if it weren't for long, you'd suggest that these entities of these real estate assets be disbanded through the Public Housing Applicants' Register. [[Applause]] They propose that the Public Housing Applicants' Registry, instead of providing public housing, provide housing for these speculative entities. This is indecent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Fernández Gómez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] For the closing of the question, the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u225	Thank you, President. Indecent is that you don't even stop looking at, reading, analyzing the social pact for housing and on which you're engaging not only the administration -- which you can do -- but all the entities. We are talking about consumers, who are represented here, Mrs Fernández. So take a look at it because I think it would be good, and then, with a minimum of humility, it starts to see each of the actions, and it can even make contributions; but how you can never make contributions is making disqualifications. [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser, Vázquez Mejuto, shows a document.]] Fifty shares are collected in this housing pact: 433 million euros in four years of public investment and a mobilization of 1,083 million. And of course we think about Thursdays, but we also think about those people who can have an empty house. It's just that you're still with the same mantra and, therefore, you're talking speculation and more speculation. Well, look, no, people need legal security. There are people who have a home even more than their own, but they don't want to put it on the market for insecurity, and, listening to you speaking, that insecurity is even greater. So, what are you going to give the Galician Union? What's your specific empty housing mobilization program going to have? It will give legal security to the owners, but it will also give it to the tenants: limited incomes and help to tenants with difficulties for people between 1 and 3.5 times the IPREM, which are people, families, in which we are thinking first. In fact, we want to give 8,000 euros to those people who make it available to the Council of Galicia for an empty housing so that they can rent it later, so that they can fix that housing -- that it might take two, three, four or five years -- and when someone has the right, even if their resources are few, to that decent housing, it also has to have a decent place. That's why we give the 8,000 euros, and we're not spreading 8,000 euros over there to the banks, that mantra you say over and over again. Therefore, the Union has betted on the Empty Housing Program, and you, who rule in cities as may be the case of Pontevedra, tell me what has been done. But don't the municipalities and cities compete within the realm of housing? Well, of course they do, and there we are with the public housing. But it turns out that in Pontevedra the Town Hall has parcels handed over by the board that is not even using them for housing; it has made a parking lot. Does that sound normal to you? Well, I'm just putting that to you as an example and I mean, of course, we've acquired them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u226	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u227	...we're buying housing, and we'll do it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u228	Thank you. It's over, thank you. [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser, Vazquez Mejuto, speaks words which are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Question by Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela, G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the commitment made by the Councilloría de Cultura, Educación e Universidade to put into operation a professional conservatory of music in Begonte Town Hall
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u229	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Currently, in Begonte City Hall, two schools work: the CEIP Virgine do Corpino, in Begonte, which has 65 students, and the CEIP in Baamonde, in Baamonde, which has 30 students. It is important, Counsellor, to take this figure into account: 30 students in the case of the CEIP in Baamonde. The mayor of this council intends to close the CEIP of Baamonde with the following arguments, which, of course, I do not invent them, is written in what the mayor himself gave in calling as Plan of impulse of education in the municipality of Begonte; surely a resounding name, with megalomanian possessions, when, in fact, it is a plan of reverse impulse; that is, of backwardness. Look, the mayor says, "The Baamonde school kids, by their number, have to be grouped into three classes, joining immediate courses, making it difficult for the teachers to work and making it impossible for the education a school can offer to be optimal." By the way, what do you have to say to this statement that education in the grouped classes is not optimal? I suppose the next step will be to appoint the mayor of Begonte as pedagogical adviser of the Education Council. And he also says that the facilities now occupied by the Baamonde school would be transformed into a conservatory, which not only could children and girls of Begonte, Rabade, King Hill and the capital of the province, but also areas bordering on which Baamonde would be a strategic point for its excellent situation and channels of communication. The mayor also says he has a commitment to invest €900,000 for the improvement of the installations of the Corps Virgin CEIP and the conversion of the Baamonde CEIP in that supposed conservatory. We find ourselves, Counselor, in the face of an unprecedented case in Galicia -- and probably Spain -- of a mayor who wants to close a school with more than 30 students, when exactly the battle that is given is always the opposite; that is to say, keeping educational centers in operation even with many fewer students. And you know this is the case, since these are debates that repeat each course. That's why it's very resounding that you want to close a center that has five times the minimum students you're closing a center with. Counsellor, it is very important that in Galicia there are only seven conservatories which depend directly on the Council and which are located in the main cities of Galicia and that there are another 27 dependent cities, which I cannot quote at this time because I would not be allowed time. You know that the decree to create conservatories provides for two modalities: whether it's the council itself or whether it's the councils. Mr Counsellor, do you have the Mayor of Begonte's commitment to the Education Council to build a professional conservatory of music dependent on the Council in that municipality? Do you have the Council's commitment to investing EUR 900,000 in various reforms?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u231	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. [[Applause]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. honourable Member, obviously, the Council knows the interest expressed by the mayor of Begonte in this matter; it is known by informal conversations -- if you can say anything -- with the mayor himself, as you usually have with many other mayors, and we also note that an agreement has just been approved in the plenary of this county very recently where an educational reorganization within the municipal term that passes through the grouping of two centres -- you say -- is a center that is in Baamonde and another center that is in Begonte. One has 30 students and the other has about 70 students, and his proposal, the Town Hall proposal, is to put them together in one, in one center, and the building that is left vacant devotes it to a conservatory, to a professional conservatory -- as many have said -- of a nature -- I understand -- absolutely municipal, driven by a collective who is doing a very good job in that area, which is the Crisanto Association, which, as you know, has a band. It's a very good experience, and it gives coverage to three municipalities, Begonte, King's Hill and Rabbade, and to create, evolve, from that music school. I'm told there's about 150 kids studying music in that school. It is a conservatory that will, of course, promote and develop the Council and that we, from our perspective, will support, with the recognition that it must be given. We think it's a good initiative. Having said this, I don't think it's appropriate to generate unnecessary alarming or trying to generate a false debate. There's no closure here, as you say, as if it were an educational abandonment of these students; they're only minutes away. Obviously, this has to be studied, we have to evaluate it, and we have to see different elements that can help us make the decision. That's why it's very important that it should be evaluated, that it should be studied, that the proposal should be seen and that the decision should be made, bearing in mind, essentially, a criterion, and that criterion is to improve the educational quality of students and students of these centres, and to be able, if possible, on the basis of that study, to improve the comprehensive education offer of this council and also of the whole of the region. Obviously, we are asked, in this municipal agreement, in this plan, which is about the center of Baamonde, that it is disaffected by the Council and that it is conditioned to develop a musical activity; a musical educational activity linked to this music school, which, as I say, has a very significant implementation in that area and it is the one that provides music to such a significant band as I have just said. In any case, we have to study it in detail, we have to analyze it, we have to see it, but obviously we're going to make the decision...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u233	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u234	...that gives greater coverage, that gives higher quality to teaching...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u235	Thank you. He's got another shift later. Thank you. For the reply, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. We've been having a good time with the applause. Let's see if we're a little more careful. [[Applause]] Counselor, we're moving forward, and I thank you very much. Clearly, the mayor of Begonte has no commitment from the Education Council to creating a professional conservatory of music that depends on the Council. Ergo, it will depend at the moment -- if it is authorized -- on Begonte's own Town Hall; a council that, by the way, has an budget for the year 2021 of 2,770.000 euros. I would like to know how the cost of the operation of a professional conservatory, which they do, for example, the municipalities of Viveiro, Monforte or Vilalba, in the case of the province of Lugo. But, well, that'll be a question you'll have to face with the mayor. Counselor, don't start that dynamic. This parliamentary group has asked on many occasions in this Parliament for a committee, a study table -- or you call it what you want -- where there was a consensus, because it is a matter of country, to redefine the network of centres in this autonomous community. Don't allow yourself, Counsellor, to be organized by the PP mayors at the Education Council. That's a very important decision that must be evaluated, as you said. The picturesque thing is that you just said you know the interest, that there are informal conversations, that you have to study it... You don't have to close Baamonde's school, because closing Baamonde's school, Mr. Counsellor, to give satisfaction to an attack of megalomania by a mayor like the mayor of Begonte, is to start a dynamic that you know has no return, and you're going to start that dynamic by giving satisfaction to this mayor. [[Applause]] Counselor, don't do it, don't close that school.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u237	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. To close the question, Mr. Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u238	It's amazing that if you accused of megalomania to a mayor who wants to evolve a music school that works very well, towards a professional conservatory, together with a collective that manages a music school and manages a music band, a music band. I believe that there is no megalomania there, there is simply an interest in giving a service, improving a service for Thursdays, for the children of these districts, who also have the right, like those of cities or other villages, to have a level musical formation as it can be through a conservatory, which can undoubtedly manage it, a municipality. I think these are absolutely different issues. You try to mix all of this interestingly into a sort of reorganization that will harm the children. I don't think so. Throughout history there are many groups of educational centers, many of them. Or is there a lot of pedagogical, educational and methodological differences between a center of 70 and a center of 100 students? I don't think there is; honestly, there is. I think they're going to have the same educational quality, unless you're saying that in Begonte's school, in the hypothetical case this action is being carried out, because there's a bad educational quality. Look, I think that we have to take things very carefully, that we have to carefully evaluate these decisions and that we have to ensure, fundamentally, the most important thing, and here, the most important thing is, of course, the interest of the students, the improvement of the students, the children and children of this county, and the improvement of the educational services. Unlike what you're saying, Begonte's mayor makes a brave bet because he knows that these bets always generate a certain bias or some sort of torturing use from a political point of view. But he thinks of the future and proposes to the democratic organ of that council, which is the plenary, a proposal for the future that we will consider. I'm sure we'll make the decision that best suits us, in our perspective, the education system and the children and the children in this municipality and in this area. And I think that's what needs to be taken into account. You know that in this case you're also considering using the facilities of this center from the perspective of public use to the neighbors themselves, to Baamonde's own children, and what you're looking for is essentially a reorganization. No education service is lost; on the other hand, with the mayor's proposal, an educational service is earned, which is a conservatory which, as I said, is the natural evolution of a music school that works well and has a musical grouping that is really significant in the sense of grouping components of three municipalities. I think that's the line of work: adding up, not dividing; looking for synergies and looking for meeting points. Finally, I think, once we analyze with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u239	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u240	...withdrawing this, the decision will be made that most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u241	Time's up. Thank you. [[Mr. Culture, Education and University Counsellor, Rodríguez González, utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] You got it. Thank you. Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and 10 other Members of the People's Party of Galicia on the lines of work of the Council for Culture, Education and University to promote and consolidate scientific and university research in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u242	Mr. Roder Tato has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, good afternoon. Research is one of the most important objectives pursued by professionals working in the three universities that make up the Galician university system. These advanced knowledge centres have been developing a great deal of work in this field, aware of the need to provide Greek society with tools and resources that allow greater levels of economic and social well-being and growth. For a good functioning of the university system, you have to count on a roadmap like the University Financing Plan, which has proven to be useful because it gives security to academic institutions. Within the framework of the University Financing Plan, it should be noted that in recent years the Galician University System has set a record for funding. Galicia is the third community as a percentage of university funding in relation to its gross domestic product. For the fourth consecutive year there is a new historical figure of transfers to universities, adding this year EUR 451.4 million; 2.5 more than the previous year, which means EUR 10.4 million more than the year 2020. Galicia maintains stable funding from universities, with a transparent distribution of funds, which rewards efficiency in management and bet on research. In this task, the Self-Government is not linked to the necessary and essential process of collaboration and cooperation between the training, knowledge and research centres of our universities. Today Galicia has a model based on structures created within universities and which has been supporting and encouraging the development of research contracts in universities and the operation of the various research structures since Galicia. To improve research capacity and the results of university research, to strengthen talent capture, to consolidate university research centres, are objectives that must be shared by the Autonomic Administration, the universities themselves and society in general. For all the above, Mr Counsellor, we would like to ask which of this parliamentary group is the lines of work of the Council for Culture, Education and University to promote and consolidate scientific and university research in Galicia. Nothing else, Mr. President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u244	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, as you well know, Galicia's policy of R & D+i is organized, and we are involved in different departments. In the field of our competence, of the Council of Culture, Education and University, we do this through support for university research, which is undoubtedly the largest research agent in Galicia, since 60% of Galicia's staff researchers -- approximately 3,000 people -- are grouped into research groups that have won universities and funded largely by the Galician Union. One example is that since 2009 we have contributed more than 500 million euros to this issue. Of course, we have a great commitment to strengthen university research, to create stable structures, to create and support competitive groups, reference groups, to encourage evaluation of results, the quality of the research process and, of course, to promote reference centers that can be competitive within the framework of research. For that, it's very important to guarantee structural funding to research groups, and this board, this government, does it. By the way, it's practically from the only autonomous communities in Spain that do so, with an investment in the year 2021 of 15.4 million euros, which enables research groups to have structural funding that enables their internal organization. Secondly, we also see that it is very important to support accredited research centres. We created a network with eight major accredited centers, known as CiQUS, CIMUS and CITIUS -- and others that I will not name -- within a quality seal to be able to compete in the world of research with referents from other autonomous communities, such as Catalonia, Basque Country or Madrid; compete in good and good results. We are also an autonomous community that we have a complete program of unique research training, at an autonomous level, within Spain. We have calls for pre-doctoral, post-doctoral contracts and retention of talent. The latter were incorporated in the last year, in 2020, with an budget of EUR 5 million, which enabled 15 excellent researchers to be captured which will be closely consolidated in the field of university research. Finally, for the Galician Union, research -- of course, university research -- is a priority, and we are tremendously aware of its importance and relevance, both for the present and for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u246	Thank you, Counselor. To the replica, Mr. Roder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, one of the fundamental pillars of university research and which plays a very important role are the aids to the formation of the research career. In this line, Galicia, as it was well said, has a pioneering programme within the framework of the Spanish State in collaboration with the three universities of Greece; a programme of aid to the training contracts of the research career, from the initial stages of training -- the so-called predoctoral contracts -- continuing postdoctoral training -- postdoctoral contracts -- and which is completed with contracts for researchers distinguished by a recognized and enhanced trajectory. As far as this programme is concerned, we would like to ask what situation are the calls for assistance and support for pre-doctoral and post-doctoral training. At this moment, also given the controversy arising from these aids, we would like you to tell us, if you can concretely, that adaptations made the Galician Union to respond, in the current health context, and to facilitate the work stays of researchers abroad, if they were adapted dialogues with universities and what formulas also used at the state level to solve this situation. Nothing else, Mr. President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u248	Thank you, Mr. Roder. To close the question, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u249	Thank you very much. A few days ago, the board of directors approved a joint summons between this council and also the second vice-president to convene something that is unique and that is a reference in Spain, which are pre and post-doctoral contracts. EUR 17.6 million is added in this joint order and a total of 175 training contracts are planned for researchers. One of the modalities of the postdoctorals has already been published in the Official Journal of Galicia last Thursday; others, curiously, are published today, the predoctoral -- I was predoctoral in my most young time -- and also another of the modalities of postdoctoral contracts. We are faced with the biggest call by the Union ever made to encourage university research and to support researchers. We're talking, as I said, about 175 contracts this year with this call. Previously we were talking about 167; we increased the budget by 5 % over the previous year. We're talking about 17.6 million euros. In pre-doctoral, we speak of 8.2 million and 102 contracts, and in post-doctoral, 9.4 million. They are 73 contracts divided into two modalities, the previously termed mode A --49, 3 years-- and mod B --24 contracts--. The only difference with regard to other years, in addition to the increase in the budget, is the structure of the distribution of payment to researchers. In these contracts, in the previous summons, there was an obligation that the investigator, in mode A, had to be two years in foreign power later, in the third, to join Galicia. Obviously, in the current situation, this could harm and cause many problems to researchers, so the call has been flexible and it has been extended from two years to a minimum of six months and the subsequent possibility of sharing the set of 24 months, if so wanted, between the three years of the contract of modality A. So, there's a change, a change in how to share the funds, but in no case there's a drop in salaries; wages are not reduced. The same action developed in the previous contracts, received the same economic amount in these years, and in addition, these pacts are not arbitrary, were covenanted and ranked with the three universities thinking, without a doubt, that they benefited and facilitated a situation for researchers who could make it very difficult for them to be trained abroad and then to continue to investigate in Galicia. I think this was a positive measure, it's positive; beyond certain interpretations, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u250	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u251	Thank you. Time's up. Question from Noa Susana Díaz Varela and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, G. P. of the Galician Socialists, about the reasons of the Galician Union to abandon the Sargadelos Foundation Patroate just a month after its entry into it to boost the brand
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u252	Question from Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela... Ah! [[Ms. Díaz Varela speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's just that here you put Noa Susana... well, then, from Noa Díaz Varela. [[Ms. Díaz Varela speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have a word for Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. Our question now is quite simple, and you probably know how to answer it without any difficulty, because it's one of the protagonists. What we have to do is start with the facts, which certainly have a short, very short, chronology. After years -- especially the latter -- of uncertainty -- let's say, by calling it some way -- of the company Sargadelos -- partly saved by the injection of public money; they say that this amount goes around a million euros; that's yes, conditional help to the safe house of the staff, a condition that, as you know, has not been fulfilled -- of uncertainty by the business drift of a project that is, let's remember, the emblem of our parents, a few months ago, on October 26th, the German Government announced to the four winds its entry into the patronage of the foundation to -- and quote textually-- "impulse the brand as a great cultural reference of Galicia and thus take a new step in the reactivation of the highest-level cultural legacy of one of the most symbolic firms in the country." The counselor himself said -- also with quotes -- "We think it's a fantastic opportunity to value, promote and promote the undeniable transcendence of Sargadelos in Greek culture." In addition, that announcement was used in that act to communicate an ambitious autonomic project to reactivate the Cervo complex, which would be collected in a roadmap where the Galician Union would be involved -- I use conditional time because we already doubt whether that project will continue or not -- For more inri, this ad was coined by the commemoration of the centenary of the birth of its founder, the precious and admired Isaac Díaz Pardo. We wondered what he would think of all this today. The surprise comes when on December 9th, exactly one month and fourteen days after the entry into the state hall, we know that the Galician Council had decided its exit "a few days ago" -- you also eat, and I quote literally because the only references we can make use of here today are from the press -- Sure, how did we know? How did we know about this news? Because that's what some of the last papers -- yes, in the past -- explained in the information on the file of a new external advisor in Sargadelos. So far the objective account; these were the facts. But, of course, the explanations remain, because perhaps it would be convenient for the Galician society to know why both the Galician Union and the Councillor of Culture decided to leave the patronage a month after entering, when the laudable purpose of that entry was even more than to push Sargadelo as a great reference of the Greek culture. So, from here we asked you, Counsellor, what were the real reasons for leaving unexplainedly, through the back door, of the Sargadelos Foundation Patronate just a month and a half after you entered?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u255	I'm glad, Mrs. Díaz, to coincide with you in something, in the sense that, no doubt, Sargadelos is an emblem of our country, it's a cultural reference to Galicia and one of the most important symbols of our culture. Of course, part of our identity is defeated by Sargadelos. Who doesn't have a piece of Sargadelos in their houses? And when we see it and identify it, we know we're seeing Galicia. I think that's very important. There's a great cultural legacy in which, obviously, from the Council of Culture, we've been working, supporting and empowering, and spreading as far as our possibilities are concerned, all the cultural strength of Sargadelos. In fact, last year we received an invitation from the foundation to join the patronage. This was in the summer, and it seemed to us a very significant opportunity to continue working in favour of Sargadelos's cultural heritage. At that time, at the end of summer, there was a fact that obviously was not initially contemplated, which was that the company introduced, or token, a recognized professional prestige in the private sector; a decision of an absolute business character. Obviously, we realize -- and today it's a finding -- that this private action could be used from the political perspective in a malicious way or in a torturing way to endanger or undervalue the cultural legacy of Sargadelos. Precisely, to avoid any kind of questioning, any misinterpretation, any political tactics or any torture use, we decided not to complete our introduction into the Sargadelos Foundation Patronate and we took a position of mutual agreement with the foundation not to do so. We have, of course, put above the partisan interests -- something that seems not to be done in other cases -- the cultural interests or the cultural references of Sargadelos, because we do not want to attack our culture, which is attacked by Sargadelos because of our presence in this patronage. If you ask me if we're going to continue to support Sargadelos, the Sargadelos Foundation and the Sargadelos cultural legacy, the answer is: roundly, yes. Our cultural commitment and support remains absolutely intact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u256	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u257	Yes, I understand. I came here knowing that this was an uncomfortable question for you -- it would also be for me -- but the truth is, I really appreciate this answer very much, because, in the end, we have just checked that Eva Cárdenas's entry as external advisor to the Sargadelos firm was in some way motivated the exit of Galicia's patronage board. That's a shame! Frankly, it's a shame. I really hope that this ambitious project of what they were talking about will continue. Of course, there is a question here that bothers me especially, as you probably do this question, and we have to bring this question precisely to this parliamentary committee. The most logical thing would be that in the same way that the four winds were announced in that public act that entry into the patronage, because also, in some ways, if I had explained why he was leaving. And so, besides, I probably wouldn't give rise to such speculation and I probably wouldn't be asking this question either today. But, of course, we do because, as journalist Louis Pardo wrote, in Luces magazine, about this question: "The feeling is that they went so fast that the cigarette they left on the table was still smoking." That's really the feeling that's left. [[Murmurs.]] They will agree with me that this fleeting stay in the pattern contrasts with the ambitious project and the fantastic opportunity they announced days before. Here the only reality we already know is that the Galician Union has left because that person has been hired, and, as I say, we would like it to be explained as well in its day and not that a groundline appeared and that it seemed that the main motivation could not be said; considering, moreover, that I understand that the decision of that contract would not be a three-day matter -- because we all know a little about how the labour market works here -- and that, probably, at the time of entry into the foundation, you already knew that it would happen. In any case, I would also like you to explain to me what this project is that they were going to start up in the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. To close the question, Mr. Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u259	Thank you very much. The truth is, given the arguments, given the insinuations and the conclusions made by the honourable Member, there is no doubt that we have made the right decision, the most appropriate to preserve the cultural legacy of Sargadelos and not to interfere in a private decision of a company that makes a professional of recognized prestige. [[Murmurs.]] I believe that, in that sense, the partisan interests should not be above the defence of Sargadelos' historical and cultural heritage. [[Applause]] We don't understand. The truth is we ratified that we did well, that it was the right decision, when we made it, to avoid bad interpretations and torturing uses with other motivations, which are the ones that are raised here. The truth is that our support, our respect, our consideration and our admiration for Sargadelos and all that has historically meant I think it is indisputable. Without going further, we have just closed a huge exhibition in the City of Culture -- Commissioner, by the Isaac's children -- about the historical work Isaac did from his cultural origins and all the development he did also from the business perspective to consolidate and convert Sargadelos into what he is, what he is and what we want him to be. We will continue to work, supporting the cultural initiatives of Sargadelos; we will do so, of course, in the Cervo museum, in Isaac's old house, we will continue to develop projects that can empower the culture, enhance the cultural legacy of Sargadelos and, ultimately, I believe that, in the end, the decision we make, given the malicious use of which is posed and since it does not matter to prejudice this cultural legacy with debates, in the end, absolutely sterile, was the right one to preserve and protect the cultural legacy of Sargadelos and, of course, to respect a business decision of the Sargadelos company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u260	Thank you, Counselor. The glass window that this Parliament presides is by Mr Isacc Díaz Pardo. I'm saying it if someone didn't know. Question from Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego on the immediate establishment of a specialized unit in Jericho at the hospital in Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u261	You have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u262	Thank you, President. Counselor, allow me my first words to be to send all the momentum of this group to the professionals and also to the people who are fighting right now against coward-19, and, singularly, to those who are doing so since the Ourense Hospital Complex. And let me also convey to you our concern as a parliamentary group about the situation, the concern about the evolution of the occupation of ICU beds and also about the statements and complaints they made this week both the Central Committee and the College of Nurses in Ourense, denouncing the lack of staff, asking for more means of protection, staff reinforcement and also asking for improvements in itineraries and emergency protocols. They said they were mixing persons with people who were not recognized whether or not they had that disease. So I also want to ask you to take steps, within your competences, to remedy this situation and to strengthen, as far as possible, both the ICU and the staff, who are -- as you certainly know -- exhausted. We also ask you to improve the situation in the Ourense hospital with regard to the service portfolio. The health of a hospital is measured not only by what you lose, but also by what you don't win. And we understand that this demand that we bring to this House today, which is a specific unit of hierarchy and gerontology in the Ourense hospital, would be an important step forward, because the portfolio of services in a hospital cannot ignore the society that needs to attend. You know we're the fourth oldest region in Europe -- not the state or Galicia --. So, having more than 31% of population over 65, and having also the highest average age in Galicia, we understand that this would be an important service. This was also demanded during the first part of the pandemic by the Galician Society of Gerontology and Hieratria itself, who criticized that there was no such unit and that it was important to count on this service in this kind of circumstances too, in the sense that it should be a bridge with primary care and a bridge also with socio-health care. And if anything served this crisis, it was to see the need for services like this. We are aware, from the Galego Nationalist Block, that since we recorded this question, this request, even today, or the moment when the debate, its emergencies, the emergencies that are on the government table, are many. But we're asking you today for a commitment, and that's why we're asking you if you're on the agenda of the Greek Government to create a specific unit of this type for the Ourense hospital, which is the hospital in the capital of the oldest part of the country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u264	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Presas, our community actually has one of the highest aging rates in all of Spain. This is not a new situation, and from the Health Council and from the Ourense unit, of course, it has always worked with that perspective. And our services, both at the autonomous level and at the level of Ourense province, are perfectly adapted to these circumstances. Although the hierarchy specialty is born to be able to care for older patients and with pluripathologies, it's true that it's a relatively recent specialty. It's a specialty that was created in 1978 when, for example, there was only it in England and Ireland. He started a little drive, step by step and, although there are now 74 accredited MIR squares that are offered each year, it's true that the pace of implementation of these services in the various hospitals of Spain and, in particular, Galicia, is slower than we would generally all like. That's why it was and it's hard to establish jeriatric units at all hospitals. As you know, in Galicia, they're only at Vigo hospital, more specifically at the Mexoeiro Hospital -- which is still the accredited teaching unit -- and at Lugo Hospital. Therefore, not only do older patients cease to be treated in Ourense, in Vigo -- in the other part of the health area -- in the Coruña, in Pontevedra or in Ferrol. I mean, there's no hieria service doesn't mean that older patients don't care; nor does it happen at Salamanca University Hospital, or at the Central Hospital of Asturias, or on the same October 12th, or the entire healthcare network of hospitals in the Basque Country. As I said, it's a new specialty that competes, in addition, with another very powerful and very prestigious specialty, and with much to be given in the care of older people -- as you well know -- which is that of internal medicine. These professionals, those of internal medicine, have many knowledges, which allow them to address, with the collaboration of other specialties, the treatment of these patients. And besides, in particular, many of them have specific training for older people. You might think that if the Internal Medicine specialists care for the biggest, they will be saturated; for the truth is not, because in the growth of these services they have been adapting to the coverage of these kinds of patients. To give an example: at Ourense hospital there are 31 internal physicians, and at Lugo hospital, between internalists and jeriatrics, there are 34. As you can see, these are quite similar numbers, with shades of people who make guards or don't make guards, but, as you see, very similar numbers. So be sure that Ourense's hospital is perfectly equipped to care for the older people it has in its scope; that of Ourense, that of Verín and that of the Valdeorras' boat. Well, it's true that it's a specialty that will have to step by step into -- as I said -- in all areas, certainly not as conventional association units, as we can think of internally, but more as consultants. In fact, in Ourense for a while there was in Hado -- an important service also -- jeriatrics. But the way, rather than classic services, is that of multidisciplinary support, and, of course, if we have occasion, we will move forward in this line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u265	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u266	Thank you for your answer, Counselor, but the truth is I'm not satisfied. We would like it from the parliamentary group that there was a stronger and more secure commitment by the Government of Greece, and, if possible, also with regard to deadlines. Because we know a lot of Ourense patients that are moved to Vigo and so I think that comparison is not lucky. But in any case -- taking the glove of the question you were explaining -- we have to ask ourselves precisely: if, at this point, Vigo already has such a unit, why not Ourense? Because demography is an excuse or it was an excuse over the years for you to withdraw services like that of Pediatric Surgery, and we don't share that argument. But going to your own argument of demography and the importance of the weight of the larger population, of course, is a clear argument in favor of developing a unit of this type in Ourense, more classic format or more innovative format. We, of course, bet -- actually, as the Galaga Society of Xerontology and Hieracy claims -- why it has an active role and connected both to the health care world, to the situation of residences and other care facilities for the elderly, as well as to the primary care itself, which, in the end, has to be a fundamental area of attention to our larger ones more than it is at present. But, of course, we don't want to see a lack of commitment, because we understand that, if you have to bet on the implementation of this service, it has to be in Ourense. And precisely the experience that was radiated from the CHUO would have to have a fundamental role with Valdeorras hospital and the Verín hospital in order to have better attention, and, more importantly, in a time of pandemic. There are other emergencies on the table, but we're also aware that the pandemic is not over, that we probably have other vacancies and that we also have consequences for the larger population and for the general population. So betting on a unit like this would also give us more ability to face the consequences in the future. So, I demand more force in your commitment and also that you don't disregard the other issues that I put on the table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u268	The complaints this week...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u269	Thank you. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Time's up. [[Applause]] To close the question, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u270	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to insist on a message of tranquility -- which I'm sure you don't mean the opposite -- for all the family of patients admitted to the hospital of Ourense, the hospital of Verín, the boat of Valdeorras, the one of Salamanca, the one of the Coruña or the one of Vigo... where there are no jeriatrics. That they are totally quiet, because their families are perfectly cared for by the internalists who have been doing this work for years. This is not a discussion of whether internists or jeriatrics, but please don't move the slightest doubt about the care our seniors receive in these homes, in health centers. As I don't understand the comparison of moving from Vigo to Ourense. Of course, no Ourense patient moves to Vigo to be cared for by the jeriatrist -- I repeat -- because there are perfectly equipped and facilitated in the Ourense hospital so that this is not necessary. They move, as you know, other things, and they don't move to pediatric surgery because in Ourense, for now, there's still pediatric surgery, even if you say no. Obviously, everything is better. And, as I said, more than in classical internal medicine or hierarchy services, we have to move forward in another multidisciplinary care format. And in that sense, both in Ourense and in the rest of the health areas, we have to work on this integration of specialists specific to certain tasks. But -- I repeat -- health care, especially in patients I hide or do not hide in the most prevalent pathologies -- I want to insist that in the hospital of Ourense and in all those in the Galician network, which are both at least two, which is where there are jeriatrics -- is perfectly guaranteed by internal medicine specialists. I repeat, we're open -- we're now studying the new model of socio-health homes -- working on integration with primary care, and, again, this multidisciplinary approach, where geriatrics, if they were, because also -- as I said -- right now there are 74 specialist Jericho units that compete throughout the state. I had the experience of contacting several of them, but Catalonia, for example, was much more attractive than Galicia to come. And I don't tell you anything about taking a jeriatric to Verín or to the ship of Valdeorras, where it's frankly hard to get an internist; an interinence, for example. So, I say it's not easy, it's not easy, to achieve that superspecialization -- which is what we're talking about -- in hospitals like this; but, of course, we're going to try it into that new model, and, if it's possible to incorporate geriatrics into multidisciplinary teams, which handle better, if it fits, the most prevalent pathologies of our old community -- not just of Ourense, I repeat, but of all Galicia -- we'll do it, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u271	Thank you, Counselor. There's an interrogation, which they know we've had to hurry up to this hour, and we're going to make it substantial now. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the intensification of the vaccination campaign for cover-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u272	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u273	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. And good afternoon to all and to all, I haven't said good-bye since the morning. Today we are moving on to an issue that we find important about the Vaccination Plan because it is probably the most important debate right now in the organization of the system. The moderate and fundamentally controlled illusion of the situation to the thread of the Vaccination Plan also deserves that we can have a debate, a conversation and even a proposal that we will have at the next plenary session, to work on it. First of all, in our group, we want to celebrate -- if we can at this time say this, "celebrate," but we understand prudence -- the success of collaboration between different, different administrations, different levels, different health models, and the collaboration between administrations and science -- let's say -- to make reality the possibility that people are being vaccinated today. And, of course, for us it's important here, in Galicia, but also throughout Spain, across Europe and in many parts of the world. It's a success of science and administration, and I think it's also good to put it on the map because there's a notorious goat about the role of administrations in this pandemic -- perfectly explained for a lot of reasons -- but it's also good to put some questions on the table, and I think it's a success. To the extent that this government was also involved in that issue, it also has our congratulations; all the administrations involved. The truth is, it's always a joy to celebrate that science has made progress. Science advances that it's a wonder lately, and even with the incorporation of many different evidence... they're in China incorporating new PCR tests, with anal tests that have enormous capacity and efficiency. I mean, science advances that it's an indisputable matter. It's also good to mention about this debate -- because here, sometimes, there are very interesting debates for lay people on the market -- as was the impulse of public administrations, as was public investment, which put value on and prioritized the manufacture of a vaccine, and how it is the self-interest of the deregulated market that is causing a problem now in the dissemination, transport and distribution of that vaccine. Ultimately, as Rodrigo Rato would say: "it's the market, friends." Neither the pharmacists nor Rodrigo Rato seem to be a model of success so a health system can work properly. And we're seeing him now with the vaccines. There's probably some company selling them behind third countries, in a matter of absolute auction of what had a huge public investment. And we support the European Commission being firm and hard on the demands of contracts. It's also good, and it's important to highlight, as we highlight the value of science and we talk about vaccination -- and today we talked about this and answered a question by the Education Advisor -- that, if we talk about vaccination and progress in science, there's a problem with researchers in this country. Here in Galicia we have a problem because we're not funding. There are working groups on vaccines and alternative treatments against covid-19 that don't receive a single penny of euro from Galician Union; public researchers here in Galicia, at universities, who don't receive any direct help, no collaboration from Galician Union. There's an industrial policy that allowed a very powerful company, with the capital of Galicia, with people, researchers and researchers from Wales, to go to Portugal. And I'm sure you're going to vote for him... this time I don't know who's to blame, surely Pedro Sánchez, Gonzalo Caballero, or Matteo Renzi or Putin. Never the German Government; that's for sure he won't have it. And it's true that, in addition, we have Welsh researchers in the biomedical foundations that work on very important issues still unconventional, and the Union offers us radical contracts, miseros for the training and capacity they have. That's also R & D, and that's also important to work on vaccines and on future problems, because always, in the end, it's going to get us the science out of the matter. So, let's not have things in front of the seals, a solution to the problem of tomorrow that we start solving tomorrow. We start solving it today and we hire our researchers well. In the state vaccination plan, it's important to clarify something. I'm obviously not a great expert on the State Plan of Vaccines, I trust what experts say, who know. I've heard, recently, I don't know whether today or yesterday -- in this full marathon we have, I've lost a little reference -- to Federico de Montalvo, president of the Bioethics Committee of Spain, who said we have the most robust vaccination plan in Europe. I can't be sure whether it's true or not, but it gives me the reliability of the people that experts consider as referents to chair the committees. I'm saying that because you hear some things from people who say you have to listen to experts, but it turns out that he's an expert at all and doesn't listen to anyone. The chairman of the Bioethics Committee of Spain says that we have the most robust vaccination plan in Europe. And the Galician board assumed notoriously that there was some member of the state working group who joined the Galician board proposal; and we celebrated it. We welcome this because, in addition, it is part of this group that proposed an agreement for the 23rd December International Council, which the autonomous communities accepted -- and I will repeat, that the autonomous communities accepted and did not complain -- about the distribution of vaccines, about when they would arrive, like, the groups that had to vaccinate first -- all regulations and the whole framework was defined. That's right, the one about loyalty then has to practice it a little bit, because when the president comes here complaining about the vaccination plan that December 23rd you accepted there, in that interterritorial council, it's very hard to understand. We think it's much better to avoid those unnecessary tensions. I'm not going in -- I came in the morning and I mentioned it, and, excuse me, Counselor, that you weren't -- about that statement by Mr. Feijóo, who came a little too upset today to assume that from the first day they were putting on the famous sixth dose. And, like I said -- and I repeat and we're not going into that --, I was. You, in good tone and in good work, inform the parliamentary groups of some matters that are moving forward, and we have been talking about that issue from the beginning. We're talking about that issue and today the president said what he said, and we're definitely leaving him there. The problem is that there seems to be some uncomfortable selfishness. Looks like some autonomic president -- I'm not going to say who -- bothers the vaccination plan because it's moving on. Because today he came to say practically -- and this is what we're not going to accept -- that he was right -- and nothing happens to have a mistake -- when he said that the vaccines would come in the second quarter of this year, because, actually, that "what was coming now, it wasn't any vaccine." Tell people you're vaccinating. "No, but now it's not... you'll see how they arrive in April." In April they'll be here too, but we've been vaccinating since December. And so I think it's important to emphasize that we have to transmit confidence and security in the procedure, not generate tensions and not feed... or, for not recognizing a mistake, to have to question a whole plan; a plan that, in addition, you accepted. Are there any errors in the vaccination plan? Yes, and it's quite natural that they exist when there's a very large number of vaccines. Some are explicable. As I also transferred this morning, there are some people who are known, who are public, and there are public complaints made, but we're not going into it either, because we have the ability -- or we try to have it -- to consult, to know and to know when there really are real information behind them that they deserve to be studied and when they don't. Some mistake we're not highlighting because we think it's explicable, if it was errors, as some unions reported, at some point in geography. Some others, yes. We don't understand how there are charges that 200 people were vaccinated in Pontevedra, and the only thing we have is a manager who made youuber to explain. So, what's wrong, it's wrong, do it who does it. And so you have to explain why these charges do have any basis. About the vaccination staff, I mean we thought it was more personal. Is more personal needed today? Not because someone had learned how to add or multiply in a calculator and said so easily that we can put 100,000 vaccines in one day, or something like that, or 9,000... someone said it the other day in a press round, 9,000 in one day. Yes, 9,000 in one day, under that calculation that you also transmit that 45 vaccines placed on one day per nurse, if there are 200 nurses, it's 9,000. Of course, that's a reasonable calculation, but the question is to think a little beyond the press round and the easy headline. First of all, if you can put 9,000 vaccines a day, or 100,000 in a morning, as you said today practically, why in a flu vaccination plan, which usually take a standard year -- not this one, which was exceptional -- 250,000 people, more or less, if it takes months? Because it's not that easy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And why is there a personal need for what's ahead? Because until now we were vaccinating in concentrated places, like in a residence. And there he entered and vaccinated ten minutes a person, and went into a hospital and he was vaccinated, but from now on he's going to have to go to the houses, he's going to have to quote, with the slowness that he has, because people come or don't come in time, there are people who can't in a few days and come in another... It's not as fast to vaccinate now, when people have to come or move where they are, as when they're concentrated. This is a question of natural logistics. And if, in addition to that, we're going to have many more vaccines -- as time goes on, we're going to have more vaccines; if AstraZeneca's will solve and arrive soon, and Janssen's; if all of these begin to be solved -- we need more staff to be able to vaccinate at that speed that we're going to need. Finally, we are proposing this interpellation to really know whether this plan of incorporating more personnel that is going to be needed is seen by the Council and to suggest that it is important to overcome tension, and not to make this a fight, as some politician or political leader in Galicia is doing, which is fueling unnecessary tension. We must abandon tension, we must build trust and we must avoid a certain dose of partyism or frontism, that there is one that every time you see someone else's face it seems to be getting very nervous and needs to say, "What a nice thing I am, how good I am, and, besides, if I go to Madrid, they'll see where I am!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh It's not about that, it's about feeding the fact that it's a success and that we can do it better. It's good, but we can do it better, and there are some things we want to think about. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u274	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u275	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Torrado, thank you for speaking in full of this appeal and for being able to move again, as has been done recently in Commission 5a, the work done in Galicia at one of the key moments of this pandemic, which is that of vaccination. And I also wanted to thank you and all your lordships for being flexible in the accommodation of the schedule, because, in principle, today was planned by the Interterritorial Council, which, at last, I have to say, was not celebrated at that time in the morning, but it was not worth changing the time again. I repeat, thank you all for that. Without a doubt, we're facing one of the days with the hardest data, and not only with data, with very hard days, in all hospitals in our community, so I want to transfer my gratitude from here to all the professionals who strive every day to fight coward 19. And I also want to remember, we can't stop doing it, all the Welsh and Germans who died during this pandemic. First of all, I wouldn't want to stop answering, first of all, the three questions you were asking in the inquiry. The first was because Galicia did not intensify the vaccination campaign against covid-19 until it reached as much as possible of applied doses. The reason -- I think -- is known to everyone. We apply all the doses that come to us and, if we had more doses, more vaccinated people would have. He also asked whether there was any intention by the Government to extend the extraordinary recruitment of health professionals for the vaccination campaign. As you know, we recruited 200 primary care nurses primarily -- some of them from the community family specialty, but basically all of them from the primary care field -- to be able to make up those teams that would initially travel through the territory to administer the vaccine. We trained them in a way that I think is appropriate, we gave you the corresponding staffing, your mobile phone and your laptop; and they started, as you well know, moving in this case to vaccinate primarily to group 1, which are none other than residents of the socio-health institutions, and also their workers. I want to say and point out that Galicia believes it was from the few communities that specifically focused on this group, because, in addition, it was so consensual in the plan, when we could see that other autonomous communities also started vaccinating health personnel, which we thought was good, but we -- I repeat -- were strictly focused on the establishment and we specifically started with this first group. These nurses must be added to the following stages the professionals of the preventive medicine and medicine services of the hospitals of the seven health areas and of the 400 hospital centers. And, of course, we count, as it couldn't be otherwise, with the 2,000 primary care nurses, who, as you well said, have enough experience in vaccination, for example, of the influenza campaign, in which this year, very recently, more than 850,000 people were vaccinated; and they did in an appropriate period of time, first, because it's a vaccine that is put in quite advance -- the campaign started on October 13 and ended on December 31, although we expanded it, as you know, until January 15th-- Time, in this case, was not a critical factor, but we actually believe that these professionals are the people who have the most experience in the vaccination of the flu and who are most accustomed to it. You will say: where is the extraordinary recruitment? As you also know, those 200 nurses we recruit, we replace them with 200 other nurses. With which the template increase of the Galego Health Service in primary care nurses is 10%. It may seem a lot or a little bit, but it seems quite reasonable to us. With this group of nurses, both the first 200 and the 2,000, if necessary, we believe that we have the capacity to vaccinate in the context of a massive arrival of vaccines, which we hope will happen. If it doesn't happen, or while it doesn't happen, of course we believe that, with the resources we have right now, we have sufficient capacity. You also wondered if the hours and days enabled for vaccination would be extended to optimize the volume of doses applied. The answer is no; we can no longer expand them because if you vaccinate every day possible, on Saturdays, on Sundays and also on holidays, if necessary. I think we've got our vaccination capacity perfectly suited to the vaccines we've now received. Obviously, I have to say that in Galicia we do everything possible so that, as soon as possible, everyone who can receive this vaccine. The Greek vaccination plan has proven -- we believe -- that it's a suitable tool, and I appreciate your words of recognition. I believe that, in addition, it is a merit of everyone, especially this group of nurses, who took that step, who are voluntary and who are doing this enormous work. And also from the staff of the Sociosanitary Residentials, who at this first stage collaborated with them to make this process flow, without having any incidents of any kind in the residences. There were no remarkable adverse reactions either, but the usual and mild reactions. So, I mean, it's a pleasure to be able to say this and, above all, it's worth this group of professionals to whom I also want to add, of course, all the people who work in the logistics aspect, which is not easy. So, from the Galician Junta, I think we've made an effort to be able to arrange as soon as possible a plan of vaccination against the coronavirus adapted not only to the unique features of the vaccine -- we count, first, that of Pfizer, in this case -- but also adapted to the Greek reality. That's why we have a single storage and distribution center, with a daily redistribution of the vaccine, from which doses were initially shifted to more than 556 centers in that group 1, the homes of older and disabled people, where their users and workers are vaccinated, to those who were to be added in the next phase to hospitals and health centers. We have already vaccinated the staff of all health centres in the autonomous community and also the professionals in group 2, in this case, first-line health care in most of the health areas. So far, we have -- data from yesterday's Ministry website -- 70,324 administered vaccines. They're talking about 102% of the doses received, of course, with that aspect that you were discussing on the sixth dose, of which I think we don't have to hide it, and we've already said it from the beginning. Specifically, in residences we have a total of 46,680 doses and there are already 12,000 people who have their full schedule, the second dose. And in the field of first-line healthcare professionals, we're already around 26,000. That's why I want to highlight the good position that Galicia has achieved in relation to the administration of the coronovirus vaccine, this good work that corresponds to planning -- I said before -- and above all to that team of professionals we count on. We also collaborated, as usual, with the Ministry of Health, as it could not be otherwise, with that technician that you mentioned as part of the Vaccination Forum, and, of course, at all the meetings of the International Council at which the vaccination issues were raised, we always carry our consensus on the target groups, for example, and on their priority. We have no doubt so far about that. It's true that we're, as I said, in groups 1, 2, 3 and 4, and we're still discussing Group 5. If we had discrepancies -- and so they publicly manifested themselves -- in the proportion of doses we received in that first group, because they were not known. We only know the data we received, but not the objective criterion or the numbers that the Ministry has made for it. That was requested, and also claimed, at the Interterritorial Council. In case it happens again, we also complain to that supposed group 5 -- which is not yet closed, by the way -- which is the one of the 80-year-olds. We ask, as it seems logical, that if finally group 5 is the population of more than 80 years old, Galicia receives the doses corresponding to the population of more than 80 years old that it is -- let's wait -- So the Minister of Health said to us yesterday that he said he would take it into account, and we hope that it will. And if it isn't, as it wasn't the first time, or we don't know why it wasn't the first time, we'll say it again, because I think it's our obligation. He said, in this case, the first group set up in this strategy was that of users and residential workers, which -- as you also know -- has already started the second dose vaccination on January 17, in the Porta do Camiño residence, where vaccination started in Galicia on December 27. And on Tuesday, January 13, the vaccination of the second target group of the strategy, first-line healthcare professionals begins, ending at the beginning of last week the administration of the first dose in that group. With this data, I'm trying to say that Galicia is carrying out a vaccination process with the greatest diligence, and that would not be possible, as I said before, without the staff that voluntarily offered to conform our elite body: these 200 experienced nurses who administered the vaccine throughout the territory of Galicia. From here I want to show you my gratitude, as well as all the health professionals who fight against the pandemic. I would like to highlight a fundamental issue, as set out in the Greek Plan, in which we have envisaged the so-called "reverse logistics", which allows both the waste derived from vaccination and the remaining avenues, if necessary, to be collected at the vaccination points and then transferred to the storage centre, ensuring the conservation of the cold chain. Here I would like to make a point and clarify that Galicia, from the very first moment, as we said, could actually take out this sixth dose and that a couple of weeks later, in this case Pfizer, has modified the specification, and incorporated it into it. So administering those 18,500 doses was the initial dose commitment, and what the Central Government generally referred to us. We administer 22.126 doses; that is, we can vaccinate 20 percent more population. The fact that Galicia had already used the most suitable spindles from the very first moment shows the forecast with which it worked in the Council and the effectiveness of our plan. This -- I repeat -- allows us to vaccinate as many people as possible within the dose limit we receive. With this, after the arrival of vaccines has decreased in the last few days, we are ready to complete vaccination in the homes of older and disabled people next week; a total of 24,000 residents and 7,500 workers. I think this is an important achievement, and in that week -- as I said before -- we're going to start vaccination of the second dose of those first-line professionals, of those over 26,000 professionals. If our forecasts are fulfilled and the rate of arrival is no longer slowed down -- it seems not, for the last information that Pfizer gave us -- we could vaccinate groups 3 and 4 in the second week, i.e. the rest of health professionals, and the so-called large dependents. For this, we're working with professional schools, so that they send us their membership lists, and we also work with Fegamp and Social Policy to be able to gather information from the social security personnel who work especially in home support services, and, in this case, in social policy, in day-care centres. The next thing is, after the Ministry announced on Friday that it was still vaccinating Group 5, that of the 80s, we worked, of course, to coordinate its vaccination. I am here, Mr. Torrado, that in Galicia we are prepared to administer all the vaccines we have received. In fact, we hope to regain the rate of arrival of vaccines as soon as possible in order to meet those deadlines that we announced. In Galicia we have all the material and human resources willing to face the challenge of vaccination, and while we cannot vaccinate the general population, we must continue to work on prevention and early diagnosis so that we can diagnose as soon as possible all people infected and thus cut community transmission. The Galician Union acted with speed at all times to deal with this pandemic, even initiating procedures that, in some way, were pioneers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u276	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u277	...such as the car wash or saliva tests. We are living, of course, a key moment in the pandemic, the beginning of vaccination, thanks to the fact that many people, the most vulnerable in the face of the virus, have received the full vaccination pattern, and that is a little ray of hope in this pandemic that we have been living for almost a year now. We must not forget the fulfilment of the measures that we all have to take, both restrictive and hygienic measures. It's essential that as soon as we can end the terrible consequences that this pandemic has caused in Spain and Galicia, not only health, but also economic and social. I want to finish by thanking all the staff involved in the vaccination campaign and also all the staff in all areas of Greek health who have, with vocation, faced these months of pandemic and who will undoubtedly collaborate with the recovery of so many and so many Greeks. From Galicia we will continue to work to finish as soon as possible with this pandemic. It must be a collective effort. And the Galician Union will continue to ensure that it is always vaccinated according to the established groups, as soon as possible and as many people as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u278	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the reply, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u279	I'm glad you don't make that frontalism that we see on other occasions by some of your roommates, and I'm jealous of you; I think it's important. You haven't answered anything about some small errors in the vaccination process, or at least you're warned that these can be errors. We first want to know the explanations, and I say that someone wanted the manager to be the one that corresponded to, at least, to give the explanations that correspond to him. We think it's more of a matter than they've had since the government, though it seems to have given some that don't match the warned reality, in some cases, as we say, but it would be okay. You stated that we already have, with that staff, these 200 nurses, the ability to vaccinate everything we need in case we have ahead of us, whatever -- so I understand -- the volume and the rhythm we receive. We don't have that clear. And we argue again, basically. Why? Because now -- although now, obviously, the rhythm, let's say, is more liberated -- they're not doing it, not much less, at the most extreme rhythm that can be done, but it's true that the situation we're going to have is very different. I mean, there's gonna be a lot of vaccines. It's not a matter of whether tomorrow or last, but there'll be them sooner than later. And when they exist, and besides vaccination groups are more dispersed, it's more difficult, logically, to vaccinate. And we don't have that capacity with 200 people. You've already warned that there are professionals in the system that can vaccinate. Of course, but then we'll be withdrawing these professionals from their regular work to vaccinate. What we're thinking is, isn't this the clear moment to do things so efficiently so that we can hire more professionals if they need it? Because we think they're gonna need it. Look at you, there are 200 nurses vaccinating, and there are 52 priests in Sergas. We have one priest for every four nurses who are vaccinating. Like some priest can vaccinate, you know what Ayuso said: "Everyone who can shoot..." I don't see them either. I, if you can choose -- to me when I touch myself, which will touch me very late -- I prefer a nurse. [[Applause]] Man!, look if they'll come cheap they talked a lot of advisors and they didn't applaud any. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if they'll be cheap. I prefer a nurse's vaccine, I don't know... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u280	A little order. We're in a serious debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u281	It's Churchill...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u282	Seriously, besides transcendence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u283	Of course!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u284	People are interested in this debate because vaccination is at stake. So I ask you to be serious about this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u285	I agree, Mr. President. I insist, I think that if Sergas has that comparative recruitment volume of nurses and priests, I think it would be better to invest him in nurses completely. I suppose there's no priest vaccinated in Sergas; I suppose, but I'd like to make myself clear. I give by the way that I don't, and I'm convinced that I don't. But now that I see so much noise, it's not gonna be that one... at last, I hope not, but it's not too much to tell us. The question is that, as I said, if we take professionals from other services, we neglect. And this, if we know it before, that is, if we already have the prediction that it is possible to need some extraordinaryly or circumstantially, other services, and if we take them and put them on, then we're going to predict the question and hire more; in the end, there's no possibility that no one interprets evil, or has any negative perception, on the contrary, of hiring professionals even if it is for this, as that would say. It's the clearest moment; here we will all agree absolutely, and I ask you to value it because we believe it's important. About the distribution, I'm telling you it's adjusted -- and you know -- to the groups that are going to be vaccinated. It's easy to argue: we have bigger ones and therefore we get less vaccines for our older ones. Yeah, but we're vaccinating health care. I mean, the argument that, as we have bigger -- I'm not saying that it was what you gave us now -- that we get more vaccines to vaccinate sanitation -- this is like those of Ana Bottle's pears and apples... It's not like that. If we have less percentage than we think we have, the same is because we have less health care than we should. If we had more health care on this tour, we'd have more vaccines. And, as you say, it's clearly right, of course, what the Ministry coordinated with you too, that in the group where we had more people -- that we have a higher percentage of people than other autonomous communities -- we'll have more vaccines, because in that group we have more weight; they're distributing the vaccines to put on. Vaccination depending on the population, when you're not going to vaccinate the general population, is to make a statistical trick that doesn't make sense. If we're going to vaccinate health care, we're going to make a proportion of the health care. It's not that complicated. It's not as complicated as you -- that you have a person inside that plan that you designed, that you accepted it, and you accepted it -- you know that that's the criterion, because you just said here, in half a minute, first, that we don't know, and then that the Ministry explained it to you. That's right; so it seems reasonable, we're going to vaccinate this group. In any case, we also moved: if you vaccinated all healthcare professionals, did you also vaccinate all cleaning personnel? They're external companies and we know they have a chance to assume... It's not Sergas's personal, but it's people who are in contact with waste and who have an ongoing habit of being in the health center, and it could also be -- although we don't say it has to be -- an important question; we'd like it to clarify whether they are or not. Sometimes in some sanitary areas, it's said yes and no, and we don't know if there's a criterion on it. Finally, if we think it's possible to be more intense. We now vaccinate in one day the same as before in the first whole week; therefore, it is possible to be more intense, and now we are more than three weeks ago. It's possible, it's normal, the first week is more difficult, the operation is the first time it's done, it's understandable; but it doesn't happen to us again within three weeks that we vaccinate in a day after the same as now in a week, and that it's not, at least, a question of staff. We think that the best to vaccinate is the health professionals; we think it's very appropriate. If they're going to be the nurses, they look perfect, but if they're the nurses in the public health system, who already know there are communities where this debate exists. And we also guarantee our full support for all decisions that incorporate professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u287	...to vaccinate more, because we're going to have more logistical difficulties because the situation is going to be more difficult and because you have to go to vaccinately and with a higher volume of vaccines. We will therefore support that and thank him for making it clear to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u288	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u289	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You're talking about the pace we're having right now. First, fortunately -- I think we've already commented on it --, the pace we're taking now is the same rate that we put on not the first day, that we vaccinate only 150 residents, but yes from the second. We have a constant rhythm in that sense. We did what we did was divide those 21,000 doses that come to us every week -- in principle between these 200 nurses, and in this case, on teams of two to make work easier and also displacements --. So, we're right now -- with the vaccines we received -- at the right pace -- that's right, to vaccinate Saturdays and Sundays and end as soon as possible --. And I insist again on the effort these nurses are making. The number of vaccines, of course, we hope that it will increase, and we do not expect it to increase, probably -- and I'm going to be clear -- until the end of March -- with the forecasts we have now --. Because, although the doses of Moderna were already incorporated -- they arrived two weeks ago 1,800 -- they were coming this week. And for reasons that are probably distant, and only attributable to the company, they haven't arrived this week. It's true we didn't count on them long enough. We use them in that case, of course, with hospital professionals, because they have their special characteristics that don't make moving to health centres very easy, for example. We'll use -- when we get here -- the following to ensure the second dose, which is also a delicate topic that we also comment on. The need to guarantee that second dose always made us at first more prudent and we made the strategic reserve, which then gave us enough oxygen when, for this reason, difficult to distribute vaccines, they only arrived in one week more than 11 trays instead of 18. But he said that when those doses arrive in March, we will continue to bet on primary care nurses. Now we're betting on a group of them, and we also want these nurses in this period to be able to go down to the health centers. We're talking about a ratio of one nurse referring to every ten primary care nurses. It seems to us a proper ratio to coordinate, to give training, to collaborate in the vaccination process. And we also believe that, when there comes this significant increase in vaccines that we all expect, these nurses can devote an important part of their day to vaccination, as they usually do -- as you well said -- during that long period between October and December. If one had divided the time that a primary nurse has and sees how much time she spends on vaccines, probably 20 percent of her time on average annually, and in any year, be vaccinated. I hope we need not 20 percent but 80 percent of the primary nurses dedicated to this! In any case, we have more resources. We have more resources because we have hospital nurses, such as those of preventive medicine, who, for example, are now vaccinating all healthcare professionals. Of the 26,000 vaccines we put these days in Group I, 9,150 are in primary care, and the remaining 17,000 were in hospitals. And we did it in a week. I mean, we also have muscle in hospitals. But I repeat that our idea is to keep telling professionals that we think they can do this work better, that they've been doing it for a long time, and that they're in very capillary centers, very close to citizens, health centers. In every municipality in Galicia there is a health center, and it seems to us the right place to receive that vaccination with your nurse. And if that nurse has to do some other task, I repeat that we have these backup nurses. And if more nurses are needed, of course we'll use them. I hope -- I repeat -- that we have to hire many more nurses for receiving doses in a very short time. That would be the best news for everyone. And I'm sure, in addition, that if that were done, everyone would take a hand, health professionals and even -- even if it's not our intention, and I take this opportunity to say it here -- all those groups who volunteered to work in vaccination -- in particular medical and nursing schools, who contacted us to, if necessary, be at our disposal --. Let's tell him that for the moment, with the data we have, and especially with the lack of vaccines we receive weekly, it's not necessary. But if necessary, our idea -- I repeat -- is to use primary care nurses, which are the ones who have the most experience, and can thus develop it. I wanted to keep commenting -- and I appreciate, in addition, the tone -- the aspects related to those mistakes or those situations that could have been made. This isn't easy, because I think everyone believes their situation is peculiar. But that's why we did an instruction that we distributed to all the health areas in which we clearly said the criterion for vaccination at this first stage. And the criterion was as easy or as complex as we understood that the first line was that of those professionals who work, well with greedy patients diagnosed, that is, those of the foster units, by setting an example, where there's a gentleman who has a diagnosis and who's in an area that puts "Cubid Unit in the Pass" -- that's going through there, for me, is a first-line professional, because he's going to work directly with an infected person -- or those workers who were handling patients with high suspicion -- for example, those of emergencies, those of primary care or those of precovid units, for example --. This was the criterion, and with that criterion I have to defend that a cooking pin that goes up to the covid unit, which opens that door that puts "cavid, in pass", which enters with its tray to serve the food, is of the first line. And they got vaccinated. The workers in the kitchen of the kitchen units have been vaccinated. And if there was a fixed cook, that one was vaccinated; and if there were five that were rotating, they would be vaccinated at five. It is clear that primary care administrations have been vaccinated, in particular. All primary care PSXs have been vaccinated, because we're talking about closed units. Priests? I don't know, I don't know the list. But if there's a priest who opens that door and comes in to visit a patient, he probably has to get vaccinated too. Why not? The concept we used was that of "covid units" and that of the whole world that came in there. I'll look at it and tell it, but I really wouldn't be surprised if it was a person who came in. [[Murmurs.]] We have them because they provide spiritual help -- of any kind, but I do --. And if they go into the covered units, why don't we go vaccinate them? But I repeat that I don't know the data because I didn't have that worry to see if they were vaccinated or not. But I repeat that the criterion was this. And, in view of this criterion, the manager of Pontevedra's health area, in a gesture that honors him, said he was wrong in a list. It's not easy, listings are automatically generated, because we handle -- it said -- 26,000 people in those lists, and it's possible that something goes wrong with them. For example, mistakes of people who are not active, people who are in IT. We have incidences of people who are on IT and say you want to vaccinate. What we're telling you is that, when you join your job, you're going to be vaccinated, of course you are. We also created an e-mail to manage those incidents. I think, of course, we could have had some mistake. We assume it and we apologize for that mistake. But I think that in this vaccination process in general, we prioritized residences -- that I insist again on saying it on purpose with every intention -- we prioritized the most critical for us, who were the people of the residences. We were first vaccinated, and we had some criticism from some health care man who didn't understand why we first vaccinated in a residence than in hospitals. We have maintained that view. We went first to the residences, to the workers -- to the 17,500 -- and, in addition to doing those two tests of antigens, saliva, which we do a week, we vaccinate them as the first criterion. We vaccinate there and vaccinate first-line professionals. I repeat that there may be some mistake, of course, yes, but I think that mistake should not mislead this campaign, which we have done among all of us; especially -- I repeat -- primary care workers, who took that step forward to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-27-DSPG022.u290	Thank you, Counselor. Finish the full here. Good night.
